Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the 2010 financial statements 1 Principal accounting policies Corporate information The financial statements of the Group were authorised for issue in accordance with a directors resolution on 4 March 2011.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are listed and incorporated respectively on Stock Exchanges in the United Kingdom and Australia.
Rio Tinto plcs registered office is at 2 Eastbourne Terrace, London W2 6LG, United Kingdom.
Rio Tinto Limiteds registered office is at 120 Collins Street, Melbourne, Australia, 3000.
Rio Tintos business is finding, mining and processing mineral resources.
Major products are iron ore, aluminium, copper, diamonds, coal, uranium, gold and industrial minerals borax, titanium dioxide, salt, talc.
Activities span the world but are strongly represented in Australia and North America with significant businesses in South America, Asia, Europe and Africa.
Basis of preparation The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 are set out below.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards both as adopted by the EU EU IFRS and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IFRS, interpretations issued from time to time by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC adopted by the European Union that are mandatory for the year ended 31 December 2010, the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law, applicable Australian law as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Order dated 22 December 2010 and Article 4 of the European Union IAS regulation.
The EU IFRS financial information has been drawn up on the basis of accounting policies consistent with those applied in the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2009, except for the following: IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements IAS 27 revised Consolidated and separate financial statements.
The standard requires the effects of all increases or decreases in the ownership of subsidiaries to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control.
They will therefore no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses.
The standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost.
Any remaining interest in the company is re-measured to fair value and a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
IAS 38 amendment, Intangible Assets IFRS 3 amendment Business combinations.
Under the revised standard, all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date with contingent payments classified as debt subsequently re-measured through the income statement.
All acquisition related costs should be expensed.
When a business is acquired in which the Group previously held a non-controlling stake, the existing stake is re-measured to fair value at the date of acquisition.
Any difference between fair value and carrying value is taken to the income statement.
IFRS 5 amendment, Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Eligible Hedged Items an amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IFRIC 17 Non cash distributions to owners IFRS 2 amendment, Share-based payment Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions Improvements to IFRS 2009.
This standard collates further minor changes to IFRS.
The effect of adopting these standards, where the standards require retrospective application, is not material to Group earnings or to shareholders funds in the prior year.
Therefore, prior year information has not been restated.
A post tax gain of US$531 million has been recorded on the control of Oyu Tolgoi LLC in 2010 as a result of the application of the amendment to IFRS 3 with a consequent increase in the provisional fair value of identifiable net assets associated with the transaction.
The Group has not applied the following pronouncements which are not mandatory for 2010 but have been endorsed by the European Union: Amendment to IAS 24, Related party disclosures mandatory for year 2011.
The definition of a related party has been clarified to simplify the identification of related party relationships, particularly in relation to significant influence and joint control.
When the revised standard is applied, the Group and the parent will need to disclose any transactions between its subsidiaries and its associates.
The Group is currently putting systems in place to capture the necessary information.
It is, therefore, not possible at this stage to disclose the impact, if any, of the revised standard on the related party disclosures.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments mandatory for year 2011 Amendment to IFRIC 14, IAS 19, Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement mandatory for year 2011 Improvements to IFRS 2010 mandatory for year 2011.
This standard collates further minor changes to IFRS www.
com 163 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Standards and interpretations not yet endorsed by the European Union Amendment to IAS 12, Deferred Tax: Recovery of underlying assets, mandatory for year 2012 IFRS 9, Financial instruments, mandatory for year 2013 The Group is evaluating the impact of the above pronouncements.
The above changes are not expected to be material to the Groups earnings or to shareholders funds.
Judgments in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty Many of the amounts included in the financial statements involve the use of judgment and or estimation.
These judgments and estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, having regard to previous experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Information about such judgments and estimation is contained in the accounting policies and or the Notes to the financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are: Merger accounting for the 1995 merger of the economic interests of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited into the dual listed companies DLC structure page 162 Review of asset carrying values and impairment charges and reversals note 1 e and i, note 5 and note 11 Estimation of asset lives note 1 e and i Determination of ore reserve estimates note 1 j Close down, restoration and clean up obligations note 1 k Deferral of stripping costs note 1 h Recognition of deferred tax on mineral rights recognised in acquisitions note 1 m Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets note 1 m and note 18 d and e Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs note 1 f Identification of functional currencies note 1 d The definition of Underlying earnings note 2 Acquisitions note 1 b Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are: Review of asset carrying values and impairment charges and reversals note 1 e and i, note 5 and note 11 Estimation of close down and restoration costs and the timing of expenditure note 1 k and note 27 Estimation of environmental clean up costs and the timing of expenditure note 1 k and note 27 Estimation of liabilities for post retirement costs note 50 Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets note 1 m and note 18 d and e Contingencies note 1 k and note 35 These areas of judgment and estimation are discussed further on page 178. a Accounting convention The financial information included in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010, and for the related comparative period, has been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain derivative contracts, financial assets and post retirement assets and liabilities.
The Groups policy in respect of these items is set out in the notes below.
164 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information b Basis of consolidation The financial statements consist of the consolidation of the accounts of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited together the Companies and their respective subsidiaries together the Group.
All intragroup balances, transactions, income and expenses and profits or losses, including unrealised profits arising from intragroup transactions, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Subsidiaries: Subsidiaries are entities over which the Companies have the power to govern the financial and operating policies in order to obtain benefits from their activities.
Control is presumed to exist where the Companies own more than one half of the voting rights which does not always equate to percentage ownership unless it can be demonstrated that ownership does not constitute control.
Control does not exist where other parties hold veto rights over significant operating and financial decisions or where the Companies cannot obtain benefits from the activities of the entities they have the power to govern.
Similarly, the Group has control where another party owns more than one half of the voting rights of an entity but the Group can control those voting rights through a contractual arrangement.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The consolidated financial statements include all the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows of the Companies and their subsidiaries after eliminating intragroup transactions as noted above.
For partly owned subsidiaries, the allocation of net assets and net earnings to outside shareholders is shown in the line Attributable to non-controlling interests on the face of the Group statement of financial position and Group income statement.
Associates: An associate is an entity, that is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture, over whose operating and financial policies the Group exercises significant influence.
Significant influence is presumed to exist where the Group has between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the voting rights, but can also arise where the Group holds less than 20 per cent if it has the power to be actively involved and influential in policy decisions affecting the entity.
The Groups share of the net assets, post tax results and reserves of associates are included in the financial statements using the equity accounting method.
This involves recording the investment initially at cost to the Group, which therefore includes any goodwill on acquisition, and then, in subsequent periods, adjusting the carrying amount of the investment to reflect the Groups share of the associates post-acquisition profits or losses, which is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition comprehensive income, which is recognised within the line item share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted units in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates.
Joint ventures: A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control such that significant operating and financial decisions require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
In some situations, joint control exists even though the Group has an ownership interest of more than 50 per cent because of the veto rights held by joint venture partners.
The Group has two types of joint ventures: Jointly controlled entities JCEs : A JCE is a joint venture that involves the establishment of a corporation, partnership or other entity in which each venturer has a long term interest.
JCEs are accounted for using the equity accounting method.
In addition, for both associates and jointly controlled entities, the carrying value will include any long term debt interests that in substance form part of the Groups net investment.
Jointly controlled assets JCAs : A JCA is a joint venture in which the venturers have joint control over the assets contributed to or acquired for the purposes of the joint venture.
JCAs do not involve the establishment of a corporation, partnership or other entity.
This includes situations where the participants derive benefit from the joint activity through a share of the production, rather than by receiving a share of the results of trading.
The Groups proportionate interest in the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows of JCAs are incorporated into the Groups financial statements under the appropriate headings.
The Group uses the term Equity accounted units to refer to associates and jointly controlled entities collectively.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
com 165 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Acquisitions On the acquisition of a subsidiary, the acquisition method of accounting is used whereby the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identifiable net assets of the subsidiary on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
Provisional fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Costs related to the acquisition of a subsidiary are expensed as incurred.
On an acquisition by acquisition basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Where the Group has a previously held interest in the acquiree, this is remeasured to fair value at acquisition with any gain or loss being recognised in the income statement.
The results of businesses acquired during the year are brought into the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control, joint control or significant influence commences.
Disposals Individual non-current assets or disposal groups ie groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of, by sale or otherwise in a single transaction, are classified as held for sale if the following criteria are met: the carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use, and the disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for such sales, and the sale is highly probable.
Disposal groups held for sale are carried at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and are presented separately on the face of the statement of financial position with the related assets and liabilities being presented as a single asset and a single liability respectively.
Comparative statement of financial position information is not restated.
Disposal groups acquired with a view to resale are held at fair value determined at the acquisition date and no profits or losses are recognised between acquisition date and disposal date, unless there is a subsequent impairment.
For a disposal group held for sale that continues to be carried at its carrying amount, the profit on disposal, calculated as net sales proceeds less the carrying amount, is recognised in the income statement in the period during which control passes to the buyer.
Where the fair value less costs to sell of a disposal group is lower than the carrying amount at the time of classification as held for sale, the resulting charge is recognised in the income statement in that period.
On classification as held for sale, the assets are no longer depreciated.
When the fair value less costs to sell of a disposal group falls below the carrying amount during the period in which it is classified as held for sale, the charge is included in the income statement at that time.
If the disposal group or groups represent a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, or are part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, or are subsidiaries acquired exclusively with a view to resale, they are classified as discontinued operations.
The net results attributable to such discontinued operations are shown separately and comparative figures in the income and cash flow statements are restated.
The Group accounts for transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
The results of businesses are taken out of the financial statements from the date on which control, joint control or significant influence ceases.
At this point any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, with the change in carrying amount recognised in the income statement.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the appropriate share of the related assets or liabilities.
This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement.
166 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information c Sales revenue Sales revenue comprises sales to third parties at invoiced amounts, with most sales being priced ex works, free on board fob or cost, insurance and freight cif.
Amounts billed to customers in respect of shipping and handling are classed as sales revenue where the Group is responsible for carriage, insurance and freight.
All shipping and handling costs incurred by the Group are recognised as operating costs.
If the Group is acting solely as an agent, amounts billed to customers are offset against the relevant costs.
Revenue from services is recognised as services are rendered and accepted by the customer.
Sales revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
Mining royalties are presented as an operating cost or, where they are in substance a profit based tax, within taxes.
Gross sales revenue disclosed as part of the income statement includes the Groups share of the sales revenue of equity accounted units.
To avoid duplication, this excludes sales by jointly controlled entities to third parties of products purchased from the Group and sales by jointly controlled entities of products to the Group for onward sale to third parties.
It also excludes charges by jointly controlled entities to the Group.
Co-product revenues are included in sales revenue.
A large proportion of Group production is sold under medium to long term contracts, but sales revenue is only recognised on individual sales when all of the following criteria are met: the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer: neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold, has been retained: the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will flow to the Group: and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
These conditions are generally satisfied when title passes to the customer.
In most instances sales revenue is recognised when the product is delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which is typically the vessel on which it will be shipped, the destination port or the customers premises.
Sales revenue is commonly subject to adjustment based on an inspection of the product by the customer.
In such cases, sales revenue is initially recognised on a provisional basis using the Groups best estimate of contained metal, and adjusted subsequently.
Certain products are provisionally priced, ie the selling price is subject to final adjustment at the end of a period normally ranging from 30 to 180 days after delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
As is customary in the industry, revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised based on estimates of the fair value of the consideration receivable based on forward market prices.
At each reporting date provisionally priced metal is marked to market based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract.
For this purpose, the selling price can be measured reliably for those products, such as copper, for which there exists an active and freely traded commodity market such as the London Metals Exchange and the value of product sold by the Group is directly linked to the form in which it is traded on that market.
The marking to market of provisionally priced sales contracts is recorded as an adjustment to sales revenue.
Information on provisionally priced sales contracts is included in note 33.
Certain of the Groups products, such as iron ore, were previously sold under long term contracts at a benchmark price.
During 2010, pricing for the majority of iron ore customers changed to a quarterly basis reflecting the structural shift away from annual benchmark pricing.
Consistent with prior years, where the benchmark price has not been formally agreed by individual customers at the end of an accounting period, revenue is reported based on the best available information, having reference to the terms of the contractual agreement and, where appropriate, to sales with other customers.
d Currency translation The functional currency for each entity in the Group, and for jointly controlled entities and associates, is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For many entities, this is the currency of the country in which they operate.
Transactions denominated in other currencies are converted to the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction unless hedge accounting applies, in which case the contract rate is used.
Generally, this applies when derivatives or embedded derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges of the Groups sales.
The Groups accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting are explained in more detail in note 1 p iii.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at year end exchange rates.
com 167 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued The US dollar is the currency in which the Groups financial statements are presented, as it most reliably reflects the global business performance of the Group as a whole.
On consolidation, income statement items are translated from the functional currency into US dollars at average rates of exchange.
Statement of financial position items are translated into US dollars at year end exchange rates.
Exchange differences on the translation of the net assets of entities with functional currencies other than the US dollar, and any offsetting exchange differences on net debt hedging those net assets, are recognised directly in the foreign currency translation reserve via the statement of comprehensive income with the exception of translation adjustments relating to Rio Tinto Limiteds share capital which are shown in the Group statement of changes in equity.
Exchange gains and losses which arise on balances between Group entities are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve where the intragroup balance is, in substance, part of the Groups net investment in the entity.
The balance of the foreign currency translation reserve relating to an operation that is disposed of is transferred to the income statement at the time of the disposal.
The Group finances its operations primarily in US dollars but part of the Groups US dollar debt is located in subsidiaries having functional currencies other than the US dollar.
Except as noted above, exchange gains and losses relating to such US dollar debt are charged or credited to the Groups income statement in the year in which they arise.
This means that the impact of financing in US dollars on the Groups income statement is dependent on the functional currency of the particular subsidiary where the debt is located.
Exchange differences arising on closure provisions are capitalised at operating mines.
Except as noted above, or in note 1 p relating to derivative contracts, all other exchange differences are charged or credited to the income statement in the year in which they arise.
e Goodwill and intangible assets excluding exploration and evaluation expenditure The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the values assigned are reassessed.
Any excess after that reassessment is recognised directly in the income statement.
Goodwill is initially determined based on provisional fair values.
Fair values are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is separately disclosed and goodwill on acquisitions of associates and JCEs is included within investments in equity accounted units.
Acquisitions of subsidiaries with non-controlling interests are described in note 1 b.
In 1997 and previous years, goodwill was eliminated against reserves in the year of acquisition as a matter of accounting policy, as was then permitted under UK GAAP.
Such goodwill was not reinstated under subsequent UK accounting standards or on transition to IFRS.
Goodwill is not amortised: rather it is tested annually for impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to the cash generating unit or group of cash generating units expected to benefit from the related business combination for the purposes of impairment testing which is carried out in accordance with accounting policy note 1 i.
Goodwill impairments cannot be reversed.
Investments in equity accounted units are tested for impairment as a single asset.
Goodwill included in the Groups investment in equity accounted units is not tested on an annual basis therefore but only as part of the Groups overall testing for impairment when a trigger for impairment has been identified.
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or legal rights, and the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Purchased intangible assets are initially recorded at cost and finite life intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line or units of production basis, as appropriate.
Intangible assets having indefinite lives and intangible assets that are not yet ready for use are not amortised and are reviewed annually for impairment in accordance with accounting policy note 1 i. Intangible assets are considered to have indefinite lives when, based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate cash flows for the Group.
The factors considered in making this determination include the existence of contractual rights for unlimited terms: or evidence that renewal of the contractual rights without significant incremental cost can be expected for indefinite periods into the future in view of the Groups future investment intentions.
The life cycles of the products and processes that depend on the asset are also considered.
Where amortisation is calculated on a straight line basis, the following useful lives have been determined for classes of intangible assets: Trademark, patented and non-patented technology Trademarks: 14 to 20 years Patented and non-patented technology: 10 to 20 years Other intangible assets Internally generated intangible assets and computer software: 2 to 5 years Other intangible assets: 2 to 20 years Contract based intangible assets Power contracts: 2 to 39 years Other purchase and customer contracts: 5 to 15 years 168 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information f Exploration and evaluation Exploration and evaluation expenditure comprises costs that are directly attributable to: researching and analysing existing exploration data: conducting geological studies, exploratory drilling and sampling: examining and testing extraction and treatment methods: and or compiling pre-feasibility and feasibility studies.
Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for deposits with economic potential.
Evaluation expenditure arises from a detailed assessment of deposits or other projects that have been identified as having economic potential.
Expenditure on exploration activity is not capitalised.
Capitalisation of evaluation expenditure commences when there is a high degree of confidence in the projects viability and hence it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
The carrying values of capitalised evaluation amounts are reviewed twice per annum by management and the results of these reviews are reported to the Audit committee.
In the case of undeveloped projects, there may be only inferred resources to form a basis for the impairment review.
The review is based on a status report regarding the Groups intentions for development of the undeveloped project.
In some cases, the undeveloped projects are regarded as successors to orebodies, smelters or refineries currently in production.
Where this is the case, it is intended that these will be developed and go into production when the current source of ore is exhausted or to replace the reduced output which results where existing smelters and or refineries are closed.
It is often the case that technological and other improvements will allow successor smelters and or refineries to more than replace the capacity of their predecessors.
Subsequent recovery of the resulting carrying value depends on successful development or sale of the undeveloped project.
If a project does not prove viable, all irrecoverable costs associated with the project net of any related impairment provisions are written off.
g Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management and the estimated close down and restoration costs associated with the asset.
Once a mining project has been established as commercially viable, expenditure other than that on land, buildings, plant and equipment is capitalised under Mining properties and leases together with any amount transferred from Exploration and evaluation.
In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste materials to access ore from which minerals can be extracted economically.
The process of mining overburden and waste materials is referred to as stripping.
During the development of a mine or pit, before production commences, stripping costs are capitalised as part of the investment in construction of the mine.
Costs associated with commissioning new assets, in the period before they are capable of operating in the manner intended by management, are capitalised.
Development costs incurred after the commencement of production are capitalised to the extent they are expected to give rise to a future economic benefit.
Interest on borrowings related to construction or development projects is capitalised until the point when substantially all the activities that are necessary to make the asset ready for its intended use are complete.
h Deferred stripping As noted above, stripping costs incurred in the development of a mine or pit before production commences are capitalised as part of the cost of constructing the mine or pit and subsequently amortised over the life of the mine or pit on a units of production basis.
Where a mine operates several open pits that are regarded as separate operations for the purpose of mine planning, stripping costs are accounted for separately by reference to the ore from each separate pit.
If, however, the pits are highly integrated for the purpose of mine planning, the second and subsequent pits are regarded as extensions of the first pit in accounting for stripping costs.
In such cases, the initial stripping ie overburden and other waste removal of the second and subsequent pits is considered to be production phase stripping relating to the combined operation.
com 169 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued The Groups determination of whether multiple pit mines are considered separate or integrated operations depends on each mines specific circumstances.
The following factors would point towards the stripping costs for the individual pits being accounted for separately: If mining of the second and subsequent pits is conducted consecutively with that of the first pit, rather than concurrently.
If separate investment decisions are made to develop each pit, rather than a single investment decision being made at the outset.
If the pits are operated as separate units in terms of mine planning and the sequencing of overburden and ore mining, rather than as an integrated unit.
If expenditures for additional infrastructure to support the second and subsequent pits are relatively large.
If the pits extract ore from separate and distinct orebodies, rather than from a single orebody.
This additional factor would point to an integrated operation in accounting for stripping costs: If the designs of the second and subsequent pits are significantly influenced by opportunities to optimise output from the several pits combined, including the co-treatment or blending of the output from the pits.
The relative importance of each of the above factors is considered in each case to determine whether, on balance, the stripping costs should be attributed to the individual pit or to the combined output from the several pits.
The Group defers stripping costs incurred subsequently, during the production stage of its operations, for those operations where this is the most appropriate basis for matching the costs against the related economic benefits and the effect is material.
This is generally the case where there are fluctuations in stripping costs over the life of the mine or pit.
The amount of stripping costs deferred is based on the ratio Ratio obtained by dividing the tonnage of waste mined either by the quantity of ore mined or by the quantity of minerals contained in the ore.
In some operations, the quantity of ore is a more practical basis for matching costs with the related economic benefits where there are important co-products or where the grade of the ore is relatively stable from year to year.
Stripping costs incurred in the period are deferred to the extent that the current period Ratio exceeds the life of mine or pit Ratio.
Such deferred costs are then charged against reported profits to the extent that, in subsequent periods, the current period Ratio falls short of the life of mine or pit Ratio.
The life of mine or pit Ratio is based on proved and probable reserves of the mine or pit.
The life of mine or pit waste-to-ore Ratio is a function of the pit design s and therefore changes to that design will generally result in changes to the Ratio.
Changes in other technical or economic parameters that impact on reserves will also have an impact on the life of mine or pit Ratio even if they do not affect the pit design s. Changes to the life of mine or pit Ratio are accounted for prospectively.
In the production stage of some mines or pits, further development of the mine or pit requires a phase of unusually high overburden removal activity that is similar in nature to pre-production mine development.
The costs of such unusually high overburden removal activity are deferred and charged against reported profits in subsequent periods on a units of production basis.
This accounting treatment is consistent with that for stripping costs incurred during the development phase of a mine or pit, before production commences.
Deferred stripping costs are included in Mining properties and leases within property, plant and equipment or in Investments in equity accounted units, as appropriate.
These form part of the total investment in the relevant cash generating unit, which is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs is included in net operating costs or in the Groups share of the results of its equity accounted units, as appropriate.
i Depreciation and impairment Depreciation of non-current assets Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the mine if shorter.
Depreciation commences when an asset is available for use.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a units of production and or straight line basis as follows: Units of production basis For mining properties and leases and certain mining equipment, the economic benefits from the asset are consumed in a pattern which is linked to the production level.
Except as noted below, such assets are depreciated on a units of production basis.
170 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Straight line basis Assets within operations for which production is not expected to fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical life shorter than the related mine are depreciated on a straight line basis as follows: Land and Buildings Land: Not depreciated Buildings: 5 to 50 years Plant and equipment Other plant and equipment: 3 to 35 years Power assets: 25 to 100 years Capital work in progress: Not depreciated Residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each statement of financial position date.
Changes to the estimated residual values or useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
In applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally calculated using the quantity of material extracted from the mine in the period as a percentage of the total quantity of material to be extracted in current and future periods based on proved and probable reserves and, for some mines, other mineral resources.
Such non-reserve material may be included in depreciation calculations in limited circumstances and where there is a high degree of confidence in its economic extraction.
Development costs that relate to a discrete section of an orebody, and which only provide benefit over the life of those reserves, are depreciated over the estimated life of that discrete section.
Development costs incurred which benefit the entire orebody are depreciated over the estimated life of the orebody.
Impairment of non-current assets Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment if there is any indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Impairment is assessed at the level of cash-generating units which, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, are identified as the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows, which are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets.
In some cases, the business units within product groups consist of several operations with independent cash generating streams, which therefore constitute separate cash-generating units.
In addition, an impairment loss is recognised for any excess of carrying amount over the fair value less costs to sell of a non-current asset or disposal group held for sale.
Goodwill and intangible assets that are not yet ready for use or have an indefinite life are reviewed for impairment annually or at any time during the year if an indicator of impairment is identified.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to the cash-generating unit, or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the related business combination.
The cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes, and these groups are not larger than the reporting segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating segments.
When an impairment review is undertaken, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use being the net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant cash-generating unit in its current condition and fair value less costs to sell fair value.
The best evidence of fair value is the value obtained from an active market or binding sale agreement.
Where neither exists, fair value is based on the best information available to reflect the amount the Group could receive for the cash generating unit in an arms length transaction.
This is often estimated using discounted cash flow techniques.
Where recoverable amount is assessed using fair value based on discounted cash flow techniques, the resulting estimates are based on detailed life of mine and or production plans.
For value in use, recent cost levels are considered, together with expected changes in costs that are compatible with the current condition of the business and which meet the requirements of IAS 36.
The cash flow forecasts for fair value purposes are based on managements best estimates of expected future revenues and costs, including the future cash costs of production, capital expenditure, closure, restoration and environmental clean up.
These may include net cash flows expected to be realised from extraction, processing and sale of mineral resources that do not currently qualify for inclusion in proved or probable ore reserves.
Such non-reserve material is included where there is a high degree of confidence in its economic extraction.
This expectation is usually based on preliminary drilling and sampling of areas of mineralisation that are contiguous with existing reserves.
Typically, the additional evaluation to achieve reserve status for such material has not yet been done because this would involve incurring costs earlier than is required for the efficient planning and operation of the mine.
As noted above, cost levels incorporated in the cash flow forecasts for fair value purposes are based on the current life-of-mine plan or long term production plan for the cash-generating unit.
Because future cash flows are estimates for the asset in its current condition, value in use does not reflect future cash flows associated with improving or enhancing an assets performance.
Anticipated enhancements to assets are included in fair value calculations.
com 171 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Where the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is dependent on the life of its associated orebody, expected future cash flows reflect long term mine plans, which are based on detailed research, analysis and iterative modelling to optimise the level of return from investment, output and sequence of extraction.
The mine plan takes account of all relevant characteristics of the orebody, including waste to ore ratios, ore grades, haul distances, chemical and metallurgical properties of the ore impacting on process recoveries and capacities of processing equipment that can be used.
The life-of-mine plan is therefore the basis for forecasting production output in each future year and for forecasting production costs.
The useful lives of the major assets of a cash-generating unit are often dependent on the life of the orebody to which they relate.
Where this is the case, the lives of mining properties, and their associated refineries, concentrators and other long lived processing equipment generally relate to the expected life of the orebody.
The life of the orebody, in turn, is estimated on the basis of the life-of-mine plan.
Where the major assets of a cash-generating unit are not dependent on the life of a related orebody, management applies judgment in estimating the remaining service potential of long lived assets.
In the case of smelters, factors affecting the remaining service potential include smelter technology and electricity contracts when the power is not sourced from the companys own electricity generating capacity.
Forecast cash flows for ore reserve estimation for Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC purposes and for impairment testing are generally based on Rio Tintos long term price forecasts of commodity prices, which assume market prices will revert to the Groups assessment of the long term price, generally over a period of three to five years.
These long term commodity prices, for most commodities, are derived from a combination of analyses of the marginal costs of the producers and of the incentive price of these commodities.
These assessments often differ from current price levels and are updated periodically.
For the long run, the Group does not believe that forward prices quoted in the metals markets provide a good indication of future price levels since forward prices tend to be strongly influenced by spot price levels.
In some cases, prices applying to some part of the future sales volumes of a cash-generating unit are predetermined by existing sales contracts.
The effects of such contracts are taken into account in forecasting future cash flows.
The discount rates applied to the future cash flow forecasts represent an estimate of the rate the market would apply having regard to the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted.
The Groups weighted average cost of capital is used as a starting point for determining the discount rates, with appropriate adjustments for the risk profile of the countries in which the individual cash-generating units operate.
For final feasibility studies and ore reserve estimation, internal hurdle rates are used which are generally higher than the weighted average cost of capital.
For operations with a functional currency other than the US dollar, the impairment review is undertaken in the relevant functional currency.
The great majority of the Groups sales are based on prices denominated in US dollars.
To the extent that the currencies of countries in which the Group produces commodities strengthen against the US dollar without commodity price offset, cash flows and, therefore, net present values are reduced.
Management considers that over the long term, there is a tendency for movements in commodity prices to compensate to some extent for movements in the value of the US dollar and vice versa.
However, such compensating changes are not synchronised and do not fully offset each other.
In estimating fair value, a forecast of the long term exchange rates, for the Australian and Canadian dollars, is made having regard to spot exchange rates, historical data and external forecasts, and is linked to price assumptions.
When calculating value in use, IAS 36 requires that calculations should be based on exchange rates current at the time of the assessment.
Non financial assets other than goodwill that have suffered an impairment are tested for possible reversal of the impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the impairment may have reversed.
All goodwill and intangible assets that are not yet ready for use or have an indefinite life are tested annually for impairment regardless of whether there has been any change in events or circumstances.
j Determination of ore reserve estimates The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 the JORC code.
Reserves, and for certain mines, other mineral resources, determined in this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges, the assessment of life of mine stripping ratios and for forecasting the timing of the payment of close down and restoration costs and clean up costs.
In assessing the life of a mine for accounting purposes, mineral resources are only taken into account where there is a high degree of confidence of economic extraction.
172 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information k Provisions and contingencies The Group holds provisions for close down and restoration costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure and the removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas.
Close down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining, and the majority of close down and restoration expenditure is incurred at the end of the life of the mine.
Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Groups businesses estimate their respective costs based on feasibility and engineering studies using current restoration standards and techniques.
Estimated close down and restoration costs are provided for in the accounting period when the obligation arising from the related disturbance occurs, whether this occurs during the mine development or during the production phase, based on the net present value of estimated future costs.
Provisions for close down and restoration costs do not include any additional obligations which are expected to arise from future disturbance.
The costs are estimated on the basis of a closure plan.
The cost estimates are updated annually during the life of the operation to reflect known developments, eg revisions to cost estimates and to the estimated lives of operations, and are subject to formal review at regular intervals.
The initial closure provision together with other movements in the provisions for close down and restoration costs, including those resulting from new disturbance, updated cost estimates, changes to the estimated lives of operations and revisions to discount rates are capitalised within property, plant and equipment.
These costs are then depreciated over the lives of the assets to which they relate.
The amortisation or unwinding of the discount applied in establishing the net present value of provisions is charged to the income statement in each accounting period.
The amortisation of the discount is shown as a financing cost, rather than as an operating cost.
Where rehabilitation is conducted systematically over the life of the operation, rather than at the time of closure, provision is made for the estimated outstanding continuous rehabilitation work at each statement of financial position date and the cost is charged to the income statement.
Clean up costs result from environmental damage that was not a necessary consequence of mining, including remediation, compensation and penalties.
Provision is made for the estimated present value of the costs of environmental clean up obligations outstanding at the statement of financial position date.
These costs are charged to the income statement.
Movements in the environmental clean up provisions are presented as an operating cost, except for the unwinding of the discount which is shown as a financing cost.
Remediation procedures may commence soon after the time the disturbance, remediation process and estimated remediation costs become known, but can continue for many years depending on the nature of the disturbance and the remediation techniques.
Other provisions and liabilities are recognised in the period when it becomes probable that there will be a future outflow of funds resulting from past operations or events and the amount of cash outflow and timing can be reliably estimated.
The timing of recognition and quantification of the liability requires the application of judgment to existing facts and circumstances, which can be subject to change.
A change in estimate of a recognised provision or liability would result in a charge or credit to net income in the period in which the change occurs, with the exception of close down and restoration costs described above.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pretax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised within finance costs.
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will only be confirmed by future events not wholly within the control of the Group.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless the possibility of an outflow of economic resources is considered remote.
l Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, primarily on a weighted average cost basis.
Average costs are calculated by reference to the cost levels experienced in the current month together with those in opening inventory.
Cost for raw materials and stores is purchase price and for partly processed and saleable products is generally the cost of production.
For this purpose the costs of production include: labour costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore: the depreciation of mining properties and leases and of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore: and production overheads.
Stockpiles represent ore that has been extracted and is available for further processing.
If there is significant uncertainty as to when the stockpiled ore will be processed it is expensed as incurred.
Where the future processing of this ore can be predicted with confidence, eg because it exceeds the mines cut off grade, it is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
If the ore will not be processed within the 12 months after the statement of financial position date it is included within non-current assets and net realisable value is calculated on a discounted cash flow basis.
Work in progress inventory includes ore stockpiles and other partly processed material.
Quantities are assessed primarily through surveys and assays.
com 173 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued m Taxation Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable income for the year calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.
It includes adjustments for tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
Temporary differences are the difference between the carrying value of an asset or liability and its tax base.
Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all temporary differences existing at the statement of financial position date with certain limited exceptions.
The main exceptions to this principle are as follows: tax payable on the future remittance of the past earnings of subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities is provided for except where the Group is able to control the remittance of profits and it is probable that there will be no remittance in the foreseeable future: deferred tax is not provided on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that does not affect accounting profit or taxable profit and is not a business combination, such as on the recognition of a provision for close down and restoration costs and the related asset or on the recognition of new finance leases.
Furthermore, with the exception of the unwinding of discount, deferred tax is not recognised on subsequent changes in the carrying value of such assets and liabilities, for example where the related assets are depreciated or finance leases are repaid: and deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that they will be recovered.
Probable is defined as more likely than not.
Recoverability is assessed having regard to the reasons why the deferred tax asset has arisen and projected future taxable profits for the relevant entity or group of entities.
Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such as mining rights that, in general, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
In such cases, the provision for deferred tax is based on the difference between the carrying value of the asset and its nil income tax base.
The existence of a tax base for capital gains tax purposes is not taken into account in determining the deferred tax provision relating to such mineral rights because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered primarily through use and not from the disposal of mineral rights.
Also, the Group is only entitled to a deduction for capital gains tax purposes if the mineral rights are sold or formally relinquished.
Current and deferred tax relating to items recognised directly in equity are recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
n Post employment benefits For defined benefit post employment plans, the difference between the fair value of the plan assets if any and the present value of the plan liabilities is recognised as an asset or liability on the statement of financial position.
Any asset recognised is restricted, if appropriate, to the present value of any amounts the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
For this purpose, actuarial gains and losses comprise both the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments arising because of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred.
Other movements in the net surplus or deficit are recognised in the income statement, including the current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any curtailment or settlements.
The interest cost less the expected return on assets is also charged to the income statement.
The amount charged to the income statement in respect of these plans is included within operating costs or in the Groups share of the results of equity accounted units as appropriate.
The most significant assumptions used in accounting for pension plans are the long term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate and the mortality assumptions.
The long term rate of return on plan assets is used to calculate interest income on pension assets, which is credited to the Groups income statement.
The discount rate is used to determine the net present value of future liabilities.
The discount rate used is the yield on high quality corporate bonds with maturity and terms that match those of the post employment obligations as closely as possible.
Where there is no developed corporate bond market in a country, the rate on government bonds is used.
Each year, the unwinding of the discount on those liabilities is charged to the Groups income statement as the interest cost.
The mortality assumption is used to project the future stream of benefit payments, which is then discounted to arrive at a net present value of liabilities.
Valuations of liabilities are carried out using the projected unit method.
The long term rate of return on pension plan assets is determined as managements best estimate of the long term return on the major asset classes, ie equity, debt, property and other, weighted by the actual allocation of assets among the categories at the measurement date.
The expected rate of return is calculated using geometric averaging.
The values attributed to plan liabilities and the long term rate of return are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution pension plans are charged to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
174 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information o Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the statement of financial position, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held on call with banks and short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are net of bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand which are shown as current liabilities on the statement of financial position.
p Financial instruments i Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, availablefor-sale and held to maturity investments.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of financial assets at initial recognition.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derivatives are included in this category unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified based on their maturity.
Generally, the Group does not acquire financial assets for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables comprise non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, with the exception of items for which the Group may not recover substantially all of its investment for reasons other than credit deterioration, which are classified as available-for-sale.
Loans and receivables are classified as current assets or non-current assets based on their maturity date.
Loans and receivables are included within other financial assets in the statement of financial position.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost less any impairment.
c Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated as available-for-sale or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless the Group intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the statement of financial position date.
Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the holder other than equity investments, are analysed between translation differences and other changes in the carrying amount of the security.
The translation differences are recognised in profit or loss.
Any impairment charges are also recognised in profit or loss, while other changes in fair value are recognised in equity.
When financial assets classified as available-for-sale are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement within net operating costs.
Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are also recognised in the income statement within interest receivable and similar income when the Groups right to receive payments is established.
Financial assets not carried at fair value through profit and loss are initially recognised on the trade date at fair value plus transaction costs.
Financial assets are derecognised when the investments mature or are sold, and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
ii Financial liabilities Borrowings and other financial liabilities excluding derivative liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred and are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the amounts originally received net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period to maturity using the effective interest method.
Borrowings and other financial liabilities are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the statement of financial position date.
com 175 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued iii Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Groups policy with regard to Financial risk management is set out in note 33.
When the Group enters into derivative contracts these transactions are designed to reduce exposures related to assets and liabilities, firm commitments or anticipated transactions.
Commodity based contracts that meet the definition of a derivative in IAS 39 but are entered into in accordance with the Groups expected purchase or sales requirements are recognised in earnings as described in note 1 c, Sales revenue.
All other derivatives are initially recognised at their fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
They are subsequently re-measured subject to IAS 39 at their fair value at each statement of financial position date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether or not the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or of firm commitments fair value hedges or hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Hedges that are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
Fair value hedges: Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability or firm commitment that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Where derivatives are held with different counterparties or with the same counterparty with no intention to settle net to the underlying asset or liability or firm commitment, the fair values of the derivative assets and liabilities are shown separately in the statement of financial position as there is no legal right of offset.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings is recognised in the income statement within interest payable and similar charges.
When a fair value interest rate hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a fair value interest rate hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the fair value adjustments which have been made to the hedged item are amortised through the income statement over the remaining life of the hedged item or written off immediately where the hedged item is derecognised.
Cash flow hedges: The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within net operating costs.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss, for example when the forecast sale that is being hedged takes place.
The realised gain or loss relating to the effective portion of forward foreign exchange or commodity contracts hedging sales is recognised in the income statement within sales revenue.
When the forecast transaction that is being hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and adjust the cost of the asset.
The gains and losses are recognised subsequently in the income statement within net operating costs when the non-financial asset is amortised.
When a cash flow hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a cash flow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, although the forecasted transaction is still expected to occur, any cumulative gain or loss relating to the instrument which is held in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting: Any derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting are marked to market at the statement of financial position date.
In respect of currency swaps, the gain or loss on the swap and offsetting gain or loss on the financial asset or liability against which the swap forms an economic hedge are shown in separate lines in the income statement within the lines net gains losses on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting and net exchange gains losses on external debt and intragroup balances.
In respect of other derivatives, the mark to market may give rise to charges or credits to the income statement in periods before the transaction against which the derivative is held as an economic hedge is recognised.
These charges or credits would be recognised in the line net gains losses on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting.
Embedded derivatives: Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to their host contracts.
In some cases, the embedded derivatives may be designated as hedges and will be accounted for as described above.
176 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information iv Fair value Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties.
Where relevant market prices are available, these have been used to determine fair values.
In other cases, fair values have been calculated using quotations from independent financial institutions, or by using valuation techniques consistent with general market practice applicable to the instrument.
a The fair values of cash, short term borrowings and loans to joint ventures and associates approximate to their carrying values, as a result of their short maturity or because they carry floating rates of interest.
b The fair values of medium and long term borrowings are calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows using quoted prices in active markets or an appropriate market based yield curve.
The carrying value of the borrowings is amortised cost.
c Derivative financial assets and liabilities are carried at fair value based on published price quotations for the period for which a liquid active market exists.
Beyond this period, the Groups own assumptions are used.
The fair values of the various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 34.
Movements on the hedging reserve are disclosed within note 30. v Impairment of financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets The Group assesses at each statement of financial position date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, an evaluation is made as to whether a decline in fair value is significant or prolonged based on an analysis of indicators such as significant adverse changes in the technological, market, economic or legal environment in which the company invested in operates.
If an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement is transferred from equity to the income statement.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are reversed through the income statement, if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
vi Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows that comprise the financial asset expire or substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset are transferred.
Financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expired.
Gains and losses on derecognition are recognised within finance income and finance costs respectively.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
vii Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost reduced by any provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due.
Indicators of impairment would include financial difficulties of the debtor, likelihood of the debtors insolvency, default in payment or a significant deterioration in credit worthiness.
Any impairment is recognised in the income statement within net operating costs.
When a trade receivable is uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against net operating costs in the income statement.
viii Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
com 177 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued q Share based payments The fair value of cash-settled share plans is recognised as a liability over the vesting period of the awards.
Movements in that liability between accounting dates are recognised as an expense.
The grant date fair value of the awards is determined from the market value of the shares at the date of award and adjusted for any market based vesting conditions attached to the award eg relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance.
Fair values are subsequently re-measured at each accounting date to reflect the market value of shares at the measurement date and, where relevant, the number of awards expected to vest based on the current and anticipated TSR performance.
If any awards are ultimately settled in shares, the liability is transferred directly to equity as part of the consideration for the equity instruments issued.
The Groups equity-settled share plans are settled either by the issue of shares by the relevant parent company, by the purchase of shares on market or by the use of shares previously acquired as part of a share buy back.
The fair value of the share plans is recognised as an expense over the expected vesting period with a corresponding entry to retained earnings for Rio Tinto plc plans and to other reserves for Rio Tinto Limited plans.
If the cost of shares acquired to satisfy the plans exceeds the expense charged, the excess is taken to the appropriate reserve.
The fair value of the share plans is determined at the date of grant, taking into account any market based vesting conditions attached to the award eg TSR.
The Group uses fair values provided by independent actuaries calculated using a lattice based option valuation model.
Non-market based vesting conditions eg earnings per share targets are taken into account in estimating the number of awards likely to vest.
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each statement of financial position date up to the vesting date, at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual awards issued.
No adjustment is made after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
The terms of each plan are considered at the statement of financial position date.
If a cash-settled plan changes to become equitysettled then the accumulated liability is transferred directly to equity at the date of change.
Further information about the treatment of individual share based payment plans is provided in note 49. r Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any group company purchases the Groups equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
Where such shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
s Contingent assets Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial statements but they are disclosed by way of note if they are deemed probable.
Critical accounting policies and estimates i Dual listed company reporting As explained in detail in the Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial statements section on page 162, the consolidated financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group deal with the results, assets and liabilities of both of the dual listed companies, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, and their subsidiaries.
In other words, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are viewed as a single parent company with their respective shareholders being the shareholders in that single company.
The 2010 Annual report satisfies the obligations of Rio Tinto Limited to prepare consolidated accounts under Australian company law, as amended by an order issued by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission on 22 December 2010.
The 2010 financial statements disclose the effect of the adjustments to consolidated EU IFRS profit, consolidated total comprehensive income and consolidated shareholders funds for the Group that would be required under the Australian Accounting Standards AAS.
The US dollar is the presentation currency used in these financial statements, as it most reliably reflects the Groups global business performance.
ii Impairment review of asset carrying values Events or changes in circumstances can give rise to significant impairment charges or reversals of impairment in a particular year.
Where the recoverable amounts of Group cash generating units are assessed by analyses of discounted cash flows, the resulting valuations are particularly sensitive to changes in estimates of long term commodity prices including the impact of carbon pricing on certain commodities, exchange rates, operating costs, the grouping of assets within cash-generating units and discount rates.
178 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information iii Estimation of asset lives determination of ore reserve estimates Intangible assets are considered to have indefinite lives when, based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate cash flows for the Group.
Rio Tinto estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 the JORC code.
The amounts presented under EU IFRS and AAS are based on the reserves, and in some cases mineral resources, determined under the JORC code.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available.
Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being restated.
Such changes in reserves could impact on depreciation and amortisation rates, asset carrying values, deferred stripping calculations and provisions for close down and restoration costs.
iv Close down, restoration and clean up obligations Provision is made for environmental remediation costs when the related environmental disturbance occurs, based on the net present value of estimated future costs.
The ultimate cost of environmental disturbance is uncertain and cost estimates can vary in response to many factors including changes to the relevant legal requirements, the emergence of new restoration techniques or experience at other mine sites.
The expected timing of expenditure can also change, for example in response to changes in ore reserves or production rates or economic conditions.
As a result there could be significant adjustments to the provision for close down and restoration, which would affect future financial results.
v Deferral of stripping costs Stripping of waste materials takes place throughout the production stage of the mine or pit.
Some mining companies expense these production stage stripping costs as incurred, while others defer such stripping costs.
In operations that experience material fluctuations in the ratio of waste materials to ore or contained minerals on a year to year basis over the life of the mine or pit, deferral of stripping costs reduces the volatility of the cost of stripping expensed in individual reporting periods.
Those mining companies that expense stripping costs as incurred will therefore report greater volatility in the results of their operations from period to period.
The life of mine or pit waste-to-ore ratio is a function of an individual mines pit design and therefore changes to that design will generally result in changes to the ratio.
Changes in other technical or economic parameters that impact on reserves will also have an impact on the life of mine or pit ratio even if they do not affect the pit design.
Changes to the life of mine or pit ratio are accounted for prospectively.
The Groups determination of whether multiple pit mines are considered separate or integrated operations depends on each mines specific circumstances and the analysis requires judgment: another company could make the determination that a mine is separate or integrated differently than the Group, even if the fact pattern appears to be similar.
To the extent the determination is different, the resulting accounting would also be different.
During 2010, production stage stripping costs incurred by subsidiaries and equity accounted operations were US$123 million higher than the amounts charged against pre-tax profit 2009: production stage costs exceeded the amounts charged against pre tax profit by US$174 million: 2008: production stage costs exceeded the amounts charged against pre-tax profit by US$175 million.
There was no impairment of deferred stripping in 2010.
In 2009, US$59 million 2008: nil of deferred stripping was written off as part of the Diamonds businesses impairment.
The net book value carried forward in property, plant and equipment and in investments in jointly controlled entities and associates at 31 December 2010 was US$1,298 million 2009: US$1,171 million: 2008: US$1,026 million.
Information about the stripping ratios of the business units, including equity accounted units that account for the majority of the deferred stripping balance at 31 December 2010, along with the year in which deferred stripping is expected to be fully amortised, is set out in the following table: Actual stripping ratio for year Life of mine stripping ratio 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 a Kennecott Utah Copper 2019 2.09 2.13 1.98 1.48 1.21 1.24 a Grasberg Joint Venture 2016 4.15 3.42 3.27 3.13 3.00 2.87 b Diavik 2012 1.21 1.17 1.23 0.95 1.02 1.20 c Escondida 2043 0.13 0.11 0.12 0.14 0.14 0.10 a Stripping ratios shown are waste to ore. b Diaviks stripping ratio is disclosed as bench cubic metre per carat.
The 2010 deferred stripping ratio is based on commercial production of the A418 open pit scheduled to end commercial production in the last quarter of 2012. c Escondidas stripping ratio is based on waste tonnes to pounds of copper mined.
com 179 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Rio Tinto Borax capitalised stripping costs as part of a distinct period of new development during the production stage of the mine.
The capitalised costs will be fully amortised in 2034. vi Recognition of deferred tax on mineral rights recognised in acquisitions On transition to EU IFRS with effect from 1 January 2004, deferred tax was provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions in previous years.
No other adjustments were made to the assets and liabilities recognised in such prior year acquisitions and, accordingly, shareholders funds were reduced by US$720 million on transition to EU IFRS primarily as a result of deferred tax on fair value adjustments to mining rights.
In general, these mining rights are not eligible for income tax allowances.
In such cases, the provision for deferred tax was based on the difference between their carrying value and their nil income tax base.
The existence of a tax base for capital gains tax purposes was not taken into account in determining the deferred tax provision relating to such mineral rights because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered primarily through use and not from the disposal of the mineral rights.
For acquisitions after 1 January 2004, provision for such deferred tax on acquisition results in a corresponding increase in the amounts attributed to goodwill under EU IFRS.
vii Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs Under the Groups accounting policy, exploration and evaluation expenditure is not capitalised until the point is reached at which there is a high degree of confidence in the projects viability and it is considered probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
viii Identification of functional currencies The functional currency for each entity in the Group, and for jointly controlled entities and associates, is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Determination of functional currency involves significant judgment and other mining companies may make different judgments based on similar facts.
For many of Rio Tintos entities, this is the currency of the country in which they operate.
The Group reconsiders the functional currency of its entities if there is a change in the underlying transactions, events and conditions which determine their primary economic environment.
The determination of functional currency affects the carrying value of non-current assets included in the statement of financial position and, as a consequence, the amortisation of those assets included in the income statement.
It also impacts exchange gains and losses included in the income statement.
ix The definition of Underlying earnings The Group presents Underlying earnings as an additional measure to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations.
The adjustments made to net earnings to arrive at Underlying earnings are explained in note 2. x Estimation of liabilities for post retirement costs The difference between the fair value of the plan assets if any of post retirement plans and the present value of the plan obligations is recognised as an asset or liability on the statement of financial position.
The Group has adopted the option under IAS 19 to record actuarial gains and losses directly in the Groups statement of comprehensive income.
The sources used to determine managements best estimate of long term returns are numerous and include country specific bond yields, which may be derived from the market using local bond indices or by analysis of the local bond market, and country specific inflation and investment market expectations derived from market data and analysts or governments expectations as applicable.
In particular, the Group estimates long term expected returns on equity based on the economic outlook, analysts views and those of other market commentators.
This is the most subjective of the assumptions used and it is reviewed regularly to ensure that it remains consistent with best practice.
Details of the key assumptions are set out in note 50.
For 2010 the charge against income for post retirement benefits net of tax and non-controlling interests was US$437 million.
This charge included both pension and post retirement healthcare benefits.
The charge is net of the expected return on assets which was US$531 million after tax and non-controlling interests.
In calculating the 2010 expense, the average future increase in compensation levels was assumed to be 3.6 per cent and this will increase to 3.7 per cent for 2011.
The average discount rate used was 5.8 per cent and the average discount rate used in 2011 will be 5.2 per cent reflecting the net impact of changes in corporate bond yields in the regions where the Group has pension obligations.
The weighted average expected long term rate of return on assets used to determine 2010 pension cost was 6.4 per cent.
This will decrease to 5.9 per cent for 2011.
This decrease results mainly from lower government bond yields in most territories which drives the assumed return on other asset classes.
180 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Based on the known changes in assumptions noted above and other expected circumstances, the impact of post retirement costs on the Groups EU IFRS net earnings in 2011 would be an expected increase of US$29 million to US$466 million.
The actual charge may be impacted by other factors that cannot be predicted, such as the effect of changes in benefits and exchange rates.
The table below sets out the potential change in the Groups 2010 net earnings after tax and outside interests that would result from hypothetical changes to post retirement assumptions and estimates.
The sensitivities are viewed for each assumption in isolation although a change in one assumption is likely to result in some offset elsewhere.
The figures in the below table only show the impact on underlying and net earnings.
Changing the assumptions would also have an impact on the statement of financial position.
US$m Sensitivity of Groups 2010 net earnings to changes in: Expected return on assets increase of 1 percentage point 82 decrease of 1 percentage point 82 Discount rate increase of 0.5 percentage points 7 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 6 Salary increases increase of 0.5 percentage points 9 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 9 Demographic allowance for additional future mortality improvements participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year older 18 participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year younger 18 xi Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets The Group has carried forward losses, mainly in the UK, French, Canadian and Australian tax groups, that have the potential to reduce tax payments in future years.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised on these tax losses to the extent their recovery is probable, having regard to the projected future taxable profits of the relevant tax groups.
The possible tax assets on these losses totalled US$2,013 million at 31 December 2010 2009: US$1,882 million.
Of these, US$1,452 million have been recognised as deferred tax assets 2009: US$1,286 million, leaving US$561 million 2009: US$596 million unrecognised, as recovery is not considered probable.
These amounts exclude capital losses which can only be recovered against future capital gains.
Within the UK tax group, US$75 million in tax losses have been recognised as deferred tax assets 2009: US$303 million, with no amounts unrecognised.
Within the French tax group, US$485 million in tax losses have been recognised as deferred tax assets 2009: US$419 million with US$467 million unrecognised.
Within the Canadian tax group, US$674 million in tax losses have been recognised as deferred tax assets 2009: US$393 million, with no amounts unrecognised.
In addition to the above, capital losses of US$147 million have been recognised as deferred tax assets 2009: nil which are recoverable against unrealised foreign exchange gains.
Within the Australian tax group, US$192 million in tax losses have been recognised as deferred tax assets 2009: US$132 million, with no amounts unrecognised.
xii Contingencies Disclosure is made of material contingent liabilities unless the possibility of any loss arising is considered remote.
Contingencies are disclosed in note 35. xiii Basis of consolidation In determining whether the Group has control, joint control or significant influence, the Group considers whether other parties hold veto rights over significant operating and financial decisions.
In some instances, the Group has control of an entity where other parties own more than one half, or in some cases all, of the voting rights of an entity but the Group can control those voting rights through a contractual arrangement.
In such circumstances, the Group considers, in particular, whether it obtains non-financial benefits from its power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity.
com 181 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 2 Reconciliation of net earnings to Underlying earnings Noncontrolling Discontinued Net Net Net i i Pre-tax Taxation interests operations Amount Amount Amount 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Exclusions from Underlying earnings a Gain on consolidation of Oyu Tolgoi 531 531 b Profits on disposal of interests in businesses 308 134 174 499 1,470 c Impairment charges 982 243 739 1,103 7,579 c Loss after tax from discontinued operations 97 97 449 827 Exchange and derivative gains losses : Exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt and d intragroup balances 530 133 37 434 56 960 Gains losses on currency and interest rate derivatives e not qualifying for hedge accounting 75 16 3 56 9 22 Losses gains on commodity derivatives not qualifying f for hedge accounting 76 15 61 75 95 Chinalco break fee 182 g Restructuring costs from global headcount reduction 231 57 h Other exclusions 28 67 39 12 477 Total excluded from Underlying earnings 358 42 34 97 337 1,426 6,627 Net earnings 20,577 5,296 860 97 14,324 4,872 3,676 Underlying earnings 20,219 5,338 894 13,987 6,298 10,303 Underlying earnings is an alternative measure of earnings which is reported by Rio Tinto to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations.
Underlying earnings and Net earnings both represent amounts attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
Items a to h below are excluded from Net earnings in arriving at Underlying earnings.
a Rio Tinto consolidated Oyu Tolgoi LLC on 15 December 2010 following the signing of a new agreement with Ivanhoe Mines.
The gain arising on consolidation represents the excess of the provisional fair value ascribed to the Groups indirect share of the assets and liabilities of Oyu Tolgoi over the historic cost of acquiring that share through its investment in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. b Profits arising on the disposal of interests in businesses for the year ended 31 December 2010 relate principally to the sale of the Groups 48 per cent interest in Cloud Peak Energy Inc.
Profits arising on the disposal of interests in businesses for the year ended 31 December 2009 related principally to sales of the Corumb iron ore mine, the Jacobs Ranch coal mine and 52 per cent of Rio Tintos interest in Cloud Peak Energy Resources LLC CPER, and were partially offset by a loss from the sale of Alcan Composites.
Profits arising on the disposal of interests in businesses in 2008 related principally to the sales of the Cortez gold mine and the Greens Creek mine.
Profits arising on the disposal of interests in undeveloped projects which in 2010 included gains of US$229 million on disposal of the Vickery and Maules Creek coal projects, and in 2009 included gains on disposal of undeveloped potash assets in Argentina and Canada amounting to US$797 million, net of tax, were not excluded from Underlying earnings.
2008 profits on disposals of undeveloped projects, related principally to the sale of the undeveloped Kintyre uranium project in Western Australia and were not excluded from Underlying earnings.
c Charges relating to impairment of goodwill and other non-current assets other than undeveloped projects but including discontinued operations.
Year ended 31 December 2010 The impairment charges of US$739 million for the year ended 31 December 2010 related mainly to Alcan Engineered Products businesses: US$589 million, the Groups Diamond businesses: US$115 million net of reversals, and US$35 million in other impairments.
All impairments have been measured based upon assessment of fair value.
Divestment of 61 per cent of Alcan Engineered Products, excluding the Cable Division, was completed on 4 January 2011.
Loss after tax from discontinued operations for the year ended 31 December 2010 of US$97 million inclusive of divestment costs relates to the completion of the disposal of Alcan Packaging global pharmaceuticals, global tobacco, food Europe and food Asia divisions to Amcor on 1 February 2010, and the Alcan Packaging Food Americas division to Bemis Company Inc. on 1 March 2010.
The impairment to the Groups Diamond business was caused by changes in assumptions about future capital costs required to complete the Argyle underground project, offset by recovery in prices, which resulted in a reversal of impairment relating to Diavik of US$158 million.
Years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008 The impairment charges of US$1,103 million for the year ended 31 December 2009 related mainly to a write down on Alcan Engineered Products of US$500 million, the Groups aluminium businesses of US$212 million, US$348 million on the Groups Diamond businesses and US$43 million in other impairments.
All impairments were measured based upon an assessment of fair value.
An impairment of US$318 million 31 December 2008: US$960 million relating to the Alcan Packaging business was recognised during the year ended 31 December 2009, and was included in Loss after tax from discontinued operations.
This impairment was based on an estimate of fair value less costs to sell, being the Groups best estimate of expected proceeds to be realised on sale of Alcan Packaging, less an estimate of remaining costs to sell.
Loss after tax from discontinued operations for the year ended 31 December 2009 of US$449 million 31 December 2008: US$827 million also included a US$131 million tax charge 31 December 2008: US$133 million tax benefit relating to an increase in the Groups estimate of the tax to be paid on sale of the Alcan Packaging business.
The impairment charge of US$7,579 million for the year ended 31 December 2008 related mainly to the Groups aluminium businesses: US$6,127 million and Alcan Engineered Products: US$980 million.
This includes amounts relating to equity accounted units EAUs of US$15 million.
d Exchange gains and losses on US dollar debt and intragroup balances.
The 2010 and 2009 tax on exchange gains and losses on external debt and intragroup balances include tax charges on gains on US dollar denominated debt.
However, in 2009 a significant proportion of the pre-tax losses on intragroup balances were not subject to tax.
The 2008 tax on exchange gains and losses on external debt and intragroup balances included a benefit of US$254 million through recovery of tax relating to prior years.
It also included tax relief for losses on US dollar denominated debt.
The pre-tax gains on intragroup balances were largely not subject to tax.
e Valuation changes on currency and interest rate derivatives which are ineligible for hedge accounting, other than those embedded in commercial contracts, and the currency revaluation of embedded US dollar derivatives contained in contracts held by entities whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
182 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information f Valuation changes on commodity derivatives, including those embedded in commercial contracts, that are ineligible for hedge accounting, but for which there will be an offsetting change in future Group earnings.
g During 2009, the Group incurred restructuring costs relating to the cost saving measures announced in December 2008. h Other credits and charges that, individually, or in aggregate if of a similar type, are of a nature or size to require exclusion in order to provide additional insight into underlying business performance.
During 2008, the Group incurred advisory and other costs related to the rejection by the board of the pre-conditional takeover proposal from BHP Billiton, which was withdrawn in November 2008.
These costs totalled US$270 million net of tax in 2008 and have been excluded from Underlying earnings.
Other charges excluded from Underlying earnings in 2008, 2009 and 2010 comprise costs relating to acquisitions, disposals and similar corporate projects.
i Exclusions from Underlying earnings relating to both EAUs and discontinued operations are stated net of tax.
Exclusions from Underlying earnings relating to EAUs are included in the column Pre-tax and the results of discontinued operations are shown in the column Discontinued operations.
3 Net operating costs 2010 2009 2008 Note US$m US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 13,409 11,501 16,248 Amortisation of intangible assets 12 369 387 429 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 3,068 3,040 3,046 Employment costs 4 6,406 6,198 6,603 Repairs and maintenance 1,946 1,771 1,960 Shipping costs 1,890 1,828 2,495 Other freight costs 838 756 815 Increase decrease in finished goods and work in progress 377 517 163 Royalties 2,104 1,539 1,946 a Amounts charged by jointly controlled entities 2,934 2,420 2,473 Net foreign exchange gains losses 4 123 379 Other external costs 3,304 3,127 2,230 Provisions including exchange differences on provisions 27 907 930 265 Research and development 187 193 307 Costs included above qualifying for capitalisation 140 136 259 Other operating income 174 376 375 Net operating costs excluding items shown separately 36,667 33,818 37,641 a Amounts charged by jointly controlled entities mainly relate to toll processing but also include purchases from jointly controlled entities of bauxite and aluminium which are then processed by the product group or sold to third parties.
Generally, purchases are in proportion to the Groups share of the jointly controlled entity but in 2010, US$564 million 2009: US$491 million: 2008: nil related to purchases of the other venturers share of production.
Information on auditors remuneration is included in note 43.
4 Employment costs 2010 2009 2008 Note US$m US$m US$m Employment costs Wages and salaries 6,328 6,130 6,414 Social security costs 98 101 113 Net post retirement cost 50 573 524 502 Share option charge credit 49 124 177 22 7,123 6,932 7,007 Less: charged within provisions 717 734 404 Total employment costs 3 6,406 6,198 6,603 www.
com 183 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 5 Impairment charges Outside Net Net Net a Pre-tax Taxation interests amount amount amount f 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m b Aluminium 212 6,127 c Alcan Engineered Products 805 216 589 500 980 d Diamonds 135 20 115 348 107 e HIsmelt 41 7 34 182 Other 1 1 43 168 a Total 982 243 739 1,103 7,564 a The majority of the 2010 pre-tax impairment charge related to property, plant and equipment US$773 million net of US$248 million of reversals and provisions raised US$197 million.
The majority of the 2009 impairment charge relates to property, plant and equipment US$1,290 million and intangible assets US$179 million, with the remainder relating to investments in EAUs.
The majority of the 2008 impairment charge related to goodwill US$6,621 million, property, plant and equipment US$1,222 million and intangible assets US$129 million, with the remainder relating to investments in EAUs.
b The 2009 impairment charge related mainly to the planned closure of certain smelters, and was caused by a decrease in short term price assumptions at the date of the impairment review.
The recoverable amount was based on fair value less costs to sell, and was assessed in line with the policy in note 1 i.
The 2008 impairment charge related mainly to the write-down of goodwill resulting from the annual impairment review, due to the deferral of growth projects following significant weakening in economic and market circumstances, and increases in input costs.
c Impairment to the Alcan Engineered Products businesses during 2010 arose following finalisation of the proceeds and terms of the proposed sales transaction, which affected the assessment of fair value less costs to sell.
The proceeds are assessed in line with the policy in note 1 i.
Refer to note 19 for further details.
d The impairment to the Groups Diamonds business during 2010 was caused by changes in assumptions about future capital costs required to complete the Argyle underground project, offset by recovery in prices, which resulted in a reversal of impairment relating to Diavik of US$158 million post-tax.
The estimate of fair value less costs to sell was based on the policy in note 1 i.
The impairment to the Groups Diamonds business during 2009 was caused by weak demand for luxury items and higher input costs.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment was assessed by reference to the fair value less costs to sell of the cash generating units CGUs.
e In December 2010, the HIsmelt joint venture partners agreed to permanently close the Kwinana site and terminate the joint venture.
The majority of closure work is expected to be completed by 2014.
In 2008, full provision was made against the carrying value of the HIsmelt operation, which is within the Iron Ore product group.
f Total impairment charges in the reconciliation of net earnings to Underlying earnings for 2008, included US$15 million relating to EAUs, which is not included in the table above.
6 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 2010 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m a Sales revenue 4,722 3,020 3,801 Operating costs 2,818 1,717 2,158 Profit before finance items and taxation 1,904 1,303 1,643 Finance items 87 49 44 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 21 23 36 Profit before taxation 1,838 1,277 1,635 Taxation 737 491 596 Profit for the year Rio Tinto share 1,101 786 1,039 a Sales revenue of equity accounted units excludes charges by jointly controlled entities to Group subsidiaries.
184 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information 7 Interest receivable and payable 2010 2009 2008 Note US$m US$m US$m Interest receivable and similar income from: Equity accounted units 33 36 43 Interest income from bank deposits 81 45 72 Interest income from other financial assets 21 21 35 135 102 150 Other interest receivable 28 18 54 Total interest receivable and similar income 163 120 204 a Interest payable and similar charges 853 1,127 1,821 b Net refinancing charge 107 Amounts capitalised 13 182 198 203 Total interest payable and similar charges 778 929 1,618 a Interest payable and similar charges relates to interest on bank loans and other borrowings.
This includes a fair value gain on interest rate swaps designated as hedges of US$186 million and an offsetting fair value loss on bank borrowings attributable to interest rate risk of US$196 million 2009: fair value loss on the interest rate swaps of US$59 million and an offsetting fair value gain on bank borrowings attributable to interest rate risk of US$59 million: 2008: fair value gain on the interest rate swaps of US$669 million and a US$655 million fair value loss on bank borrowings attributable to interest rate risk.
b Net charge on the refinancing of bonds in October 2010 includes premium of US$252 million, offset by mark to market hedge fair value adjustments of US$167 million note 33.
com 185 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 8 Taxation continued 2010 2009 2008 Prima facie tax reconciliation US$m US$m US$m Profit before taxation 20,577 7,860 9,178 Deduct: share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 1,101 786 1,039 Parent companies and subsidiaries profit before tax 19,476 7,074 8,139 Prima facie tax payable at UK rate of 28% 5,453 1,981 2,279 Higher rate of taxation on Australian earnings at 30% 295 136 226 a Impact of items excluded in arriving at Underlying earnings 143 347 919 Adjustments to deferred tax liabilities following changes in tax rates 96 22 25 Other tax rates applicable outside the UK and Australia 110 113 206 Resource depletion and other depreciation allowances 163 132 129 Research, development and other investment allowances 74 55 72 Utilisation of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 13 36 160 Unrecognised current year operating losses 95 105 163 Foreign exchange differences 63 167 197 Withholding taxes 35 73 95 b Non-taxable gains on asset disposals 208 Other items 140 59 43 c Total taxation charge 5,296 2,076 3,742 a An analysis of the impact on the tax reconciliation of items excluded in arriving at Underlying earnings is given below: 2010 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m Impairment charges 23 5 1,806 Gains on disposals of businesses and on newly consolidated operations 101 136 Exchange losses gains on intragroup balances 46 332 723 Exchange gains on external debt 61 332 Exchange gains losses on derivatives and others 17 25 19 Other exclusions 13 5 51 143 347 919 b The non-taxable gains on asset disposals in 2009 relate to undeveloped potash assets in Argentina.
c This tax reconciliation relates to the Groups parent companies, subsidiaries and proportionally consolidated units.
The Groups share of profit of equity accounted units is net of tax charges of US$737 million 2009: US$491 million: 2008: US$596 million.
186 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information The tax credit charge relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: 2010 2009 Attributable to: Attributable to: NonNonOwners controlling Owners controlling of Rio Tinto interests Total of Rio Tinto interests Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Tax on exchange adjustments 27 27 Cash flow hedge fair value losses gains : Cash flow hedge fair value losses 17 7 24 62 35 97 Cash flow hedge losses transferred to the income statement 18 16 34 10 10 20 Gains on revaluation of available for sale securities 24 1 25 1 1 Gains on revaluation of available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 1 1 1 1 Actuarial losses on post retirement benefit plans 210 6 216 233 1 232 Deferred tax on share options 47 47 50 50 260 4 256 335 24 359 Share of tax on other comprehensive expense of equity accounted units 3 3 38 38 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive a income expense for the year 257 4 253 297 24 321 2008 Attributable to: NonOwners controlling of Rio Tinto interests Total US$m US$m US$m Tax on exchange adjustments 99 99 Cash flow hedge fair value losses gains : Cash flow hedge fair value gains 11 8 19 Cash flow hedge losses transferred to the income statement 77 35 112 Losses on revaluation of available for sale securities 10 10 Gains on revaluation of available for sale securities transferred to the income statement Actuarial losses on post retirement benefit plans 457 7 464 Deferred tax on share options 179 179 299 36 263 Share of tax on other comprehensive expense of equity accounted units 19 19 a Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income expense for the year 280 36 244 a This comprises US$226 million 2009: US$319 million: 2008: US$205 million of deferred tax and US$27 million 2009: US$2 million: 2008: US$39 million of current tax.
com 187 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 9 Earnings loss per ordinary share 2010 2009 Weighted Weighted average 2010 average 2009 2010 number of Per share 2009 number of Per share Earnings shares amount Earnings shares amount a US$m millions cents US$m millions cents Basic earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto continuing operations 14,421 1,961.0 735.4 5,321 1,763.6 301.7 Basic loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto discontinued operations 97 1,961.0 4.9 449 1,763.6 25.5 b Total basic earnings per share profit for the year 14,324 1,961.0 730.5 4,872 1,763.6 276.2 Diluted earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto continuing operations 14,421 1,972.6 731.1 5,321 1,769.6 300.7 Diluted loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto discontinued operations 97 1,972.6 4.9 449 1,769.6 25.4 c Total diluted earnings per share profit for the year 14,324 1,972.6 726.2 4,872 1,769.6 275.3 d Underlying earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders b Basic 13,987 1,961.0 713.3 6,298 1,763.6 357.1 c Diluted 13,987 1,972.6 709.1 6,298 1,769.6 355.9 2008 Weighted average 2008 2008 number of Per share Earnings shares amount a US$m millions cents Basic earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto continuing operations 4,503 1,570.1 286.8 Basic loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto discontinued operations 827 1,570.1 52.7 b Total basic earnings per share profit for the year 3,676 1,570.1234.1 Diluted earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto continuing operations 4,503 1,577.3 285.5 Diluted loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto discontinued operations 827 1,577.3 52.4 c Total diluted earnings per share profit for the year 3,676 1,577.3233.1 d Underlying earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders b Basic 10,303 1,570.1 656.2 c Diluted 10,303 1,577.3 653.2 a The 2009 rights issues were at a discount to the then market price.
Accordingly, earnings per share for all periods up to the date on which the shares were issued have been adjusted for the bonus element of the issues.
The bonus factor for Rio Tinto plc was 1.2105 and for Rio Tinto Limited was 1.2679.
Other information relating to the rights issues is shown in note 46. b The weighted average number of shares is calculated as the average number of Rio Tinto plc shares outstanding not held as treasury shares of 1,525.2 million 2009: 1,366.1 million: 2008: 1,207.8 million plus the average number of Rio Tinto Limited shares outstanding not held by Rio Tinto plc of 435.8 million 2009: 397.5 million: 2008: 362.3 million.
c For the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, the effect of dilutive securities of 11.6 million shares in 2010 2009: 6.0 million shares: 2008: 7.2 million shares is added to the weighted average number of shares described in b above.
This effect is calculated under the treasury stock method.
The Groups only potential dilutive ordinary shares are share options for which terms and conditions are described in note 49. d Underlying earnings per share is calculated from Underlying earnings, detailed information on which is given in note 2.
10 Dividends 2010 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m Rio Tinto plc previous year Final dividend paid 686 670 838 Rio Tinto plc Interim dividend paid 664 679 Rio Tinto Limited previous year Final dividend paid 206 206 228 Rio Tinto Limited Interim dividend paid 198 188 Dividends paid during the year 1,754 876 1,933 Dividends per share: paid during the year 90.0c 55.6c 124.3c Dividends per share: proposed in the announcement of the results for the year 63.0c 45.0c 55.6c 188 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Dividends Dividends Dividends per share per share per share 2010 2009 2008 Rio Tinto plc previous year Final pence 28.84p 37.85p 35.27p Rio Tinto plc Interim pence 28.21p 29.64p Rio Tinto Limited previous year Final fully franked at 30% Australian cents 51.56c 82.97c 76.08c Rio Tinto Limited Interim fully franked at 30% Australian cents 49.27c 63.25c Number Number Number of shares of shares of shares 2010 2009 2008 millions millions millions Rio Tinto plc previous year Final 1,524.8 1,208.4 1,207.8 Rio Tinto plc Interim 1,526.0 1,208.2 Rio Tinto Limited previous year Final 435.8 362.3 362.3 Rio Tinto Limited Interim 435.8 362.3 The dividends paid in 2010 are based on the following US cents per share amounts: 2009 final 45.0 cents, 2010 interim 45.0 cents 2009 dividends paid: 2008 final 55.6 cents, 2009 interim nil: 2008 dividends paid: 2007 final 68.7 cents, 2008 interim 55.6 cents.
The number of shares on which the Rio Tinto Limited dividends are based excludes those shares held by Rio Tinto plc, in order that the dividends shown represent those paid to public shareholders.
The number of shares on which Rio Tinto plc dividends are based excludes those held as treasury shares.
In addition, the directors of Rio Tinto announced a final dividend of 63.0 cents per share on 10 February 2011.
This is expected to result in payments of US$1,236 million Rio Tinto plc: US$962 million: Rio Tinto Limited: US$274 million.
The dividends will be paid on 31 March 2011 to Rio Tinto plc shareholders on the register at the close of business on 4 March 2011 and to Rio Tinto Limited shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8 March 2011.
The proposed Rio Tinto Limited dividends will be franked out of existing franking credits or out of franking credits arising from the payment of income tax during 2011.
The approximate amount of the Rio Tinto Limited consolidated tax groups retained profits and reserves that could be distributed as dividends and franked out of credits, that arose from net payments of income tax in respect of periods up to 31 December 2010 after deducting franking credits expected to be utilised on the 2010 final dividend declared, is US$7,380 million.
11 Goodwill 2010 2009 US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 14,268 14,296 Adjustment on currency translation 72 156 Newly consolidated operations 963 Disposals 7 184 At 31 December 15,296 14,268 cost 21,886 20,854 accumulated impairment 6,590 6,586 At 1 January cost 20,854 21,123 accumulated impairment 6,586 6,827 www.
com 189 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 11 Goodwill continued Impairment tests for goodwill At 31 December 2010, goodwill has been allocated as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Net book value Aluminium 13,678 13,691 Copper Oyu Tolgoi note 41 963 Australian Iron Ore 507 446 Other 148 131 15,296 14,268 Aluminium The majority of the Groups goodwill has been allocated to cash generating units within the Aluminium group of cash generating units Aluminium.
A large component of Aluminiums carrying value relates to the former Alcan businesses purchased in 2007.
Aluminiums annual impairment review resulted in no impairment charge for 2010 2009: no impairment charge: 2008: US$6,127 million after taxation.
The recoverable amount has been assessed by reference to fair value less costs to sell, using discounted cash flows, in line with the policy in note 1 i.
In arriving at fair value less costs to sell, a post-tax discount rate of 6.5 per cent 2009: 6.8 per cent has been applied to the post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms.
Fair value less costs to sell was determined by estimating cash flows for a period of 11 years.
The cash flow projections are based on long term production plans.
These cash flows are then aggregated with a terminal value.
The terminal value represents the value of cash flows beyond the 11th year, incorporating an annual real-term growth rate of one and a half per cent, with a corresponding increase in capital expenditure to support the real term growth rate, resulting in a zero per cent growth in net cash flows.
Aluminium benefits from a global marketplace with substantial barriers to entry and there are a limited number of competitors who are able to access effectively the key resources necessary to make aluminium.
In addition, continued global industrialisation is expected to support demand for aluminium.
The operating cost levels included in the fair value assessment are calculated based on Aluminiums long term production plans.
Price assumptions for inputs into the aluminium smelting process are based on analysis of market fundamentals and are made consistent with related output price assumptions.
Approximately 80 per cent of Aluminiums production is located in the first half of the industry cost curve.
Aluminiums intention is to improve its relative position on the industry cash cost curve.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of fair value less costs to sell for Aluminium is most sensitive are the long term aluminium price: the Canadian dollar and Australian dollar exchange rates against the US dollar: operating costs: and discount rates.
Future selling prices and operating costs have been estimated in line with the policy in note 1 i.
Management believes that, currently, there are no reasonably possible changes in any of the key assumptions, that would lead to the recoverable amount being below the carrying amount, except for the long term aluminium price.
The long term aluminium price used in the terminal year of the fair value calculations includes a component to reflect the impact of carbon pricing.
The Groups price without this carbon component is within the range published by market commentators of US$2,010 to US$2,566 per tonne, with an average of US$2,329 per tonne, in real terms.
The carbon element within the long term price used in the fair value calculations is based on a price per tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions tCO e. This price is based on an 2 assessment of future climate policy evolution and the range of carbon prices that could result from this process.
It is comparable to the range published by market commentators, of between US$10 and US$40 per tCO e in real terms.
The relationship between the price per 2 tCO e and the price per tonne of aluminium is dependent on how many tonnes of carbon dioxide are emitted per tonne of aluminium 2 produced by marginal cost smelters.
Industry data show that emissions for all producers range from approximately two tonnes, to in excess of 20 tonnes, of CO per tonne of aluminium produced, depending on the primary energy source used to generate the consumed 2 electric power.
The weighted industry average for all producers is approximately 10-12 tonnes of CO per tonne of aluminium.
The 2 assumptions used in the Groups long term aluminium price used in the terminal year imply a carbon emission intensity for the marginal producers above the weighted industry average but below the top end of the industry range.
Based on the assessment of fair value less costs to sell, the recoverable amount exceeds the carrying value by approximately 16 per cent.
The calculation is highly sensitive to changes in the key assumptions, and a seven per cent decrease in the long term aluminium price, in isolation, would lead to the fair value less costs to sell of Aluminium being equal to its carrying amount.
However, management believe that a decrease in the long term aluminium price would have an associated beneficial impact on input costs which would, to a certain extent, offset the impact of the change in the long term aluminium price.
In addition, the assumed relationship between the long term aluminium price and the Australian and Canadian currencies provides further natural protection in the long term see also note 33 Financial risk management.
190 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Oyu Tolgoi Goodwill of US$963 million arose following consolidation on 15 December 2010 of Oyu Tolgoi LLC, of which US$834 million was calculated in accordance with the requirement in IFRS to recognise a deferred tax liability on the difference between the provisional fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Refer to note 41 for further information relating to the consolidation of Oyu Tolgoi LLC.
Australian Iron Ore The recoverable amount of the goodwill relating to Australian Iron Ore has been assessed by reference to fair value less costs to sell, which is estimated in line with the policy in note 1 i.
In line with normal practice in the mining industry, the cash flow projections are based on long term mine plans covering the expected life of each operation.
Therefore, the projections generally cover periods well in excess of five years.
Assumptions about selling prices, operating costs, exchange rates, and discount rates are particularly important in these valuations.
Long term average selling prices are forecast taking account of estimates of the costs of producers of iron ore.
Forecasts of operating costs are based on detailed mine plans which take account of all relevant characteristics of the orebody.
Goodwill relating to Australian Iron Ore has been reviewed applying a discount rate of 6.5 per cent 2009: 6.8 per cent to the post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms.
There are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions, which would cause the goodwill allocated to Australian Iron Ore to be impaired.
Other The recoverability of the remaining goodwill, which is included within Other in the table above, has been assessed by reference to fair value less costs to sell, using assumptions consistent with those described above.
The recoverable amounts were determined to be in excess of carrying value, and there are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions that would cause the remaining goodwill to be impaired by a significant amount.
12 Intangible assets Trademarks, Contract Exploration patented and based Other and non patented intangible intangible a b c evaluation technology assets assets Total Year ended 31 December 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2010 145 289 4,802 494 5,730 Adjustment on currency translation 25 5 1 52 71 Expenditure during the year 143 186 329 Amortisation for the year 25 167 177 369 Newly consolidated operations note 41 38 38 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 7 7 Disposals, transfers and other movements 6 90 4 92 At 31 December 2010 307 259 4,537 597 5,700 cost 307 370 5,525 1,373 7,575 accumulated amortisation and impairment 111 988 776 1,875 Refer to footnotes a to c on page 192. www.
com 191 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 12 Intangible assets continued Trademarks, Contract patented and based Other Exploration and non patented intangible intangible a b c evaluation technology assets assets Total Year ended 31 December 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2009 133 444 5,208 500 6,285 Adjustment on currency translation 10 6 2 71 89 Expenditure during the year 2 53 55 Amortisation for the year 25 188 174 387 Impairment charges 23 156 179 Subsidiaries now equity accounted 2 2 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 113 54 167 Disposals, transfers and other movements 10 46 36 At 31 December 2009 145 289 4,802 494 5,730 cost 145 398 5,445 1,062 7,050 accumulated amortisation and impairment 109 643 568 1,320 a Exploration and evaluation: useful life not determined until transferred to property, plant and equipment.
b The Group benefits from certain intangible assets acquired with Alcan including power supply contracts, customer contracts and water rights.
The water rights are expected to contribute to the efficiency and cost effectiveness of operations for the foreseeable future: accordingly, these rights are considered to have indefinite lives and are not subject to amortisation.
These water rights constitute the majority of the amounts in the column of the above table entitled Contract based intangible assets.
The water rights have been allocated to cash generating units within Aluminium.
In 2010, the recoverable amount of these cash-generating units was determined based on fair value less costs to sell, using a methodology and assumptions consistent with those described in note 1 i and note 11.
No impairment of these indefinite-lived intangible assets was recognised during 2010 2009: no impairment, as the fair value less costs to sell of the related cash-generating units was in excess of their carrying amounts.
c There are no intangible assets either pledged as security or held under restriction of title.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure The charge for the year and the net amount of intangible assets capitalised during the year are as follows: 2010 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m Net expenditure proceeds in the year net of proceeds of US$568 million 2009: US$932 million: 2008: US$673 million on disposal of undeveloped projects 135 486 440 Changes in accruals including impairment of undeveloped projects of nil 2009: nil: 2008: US$156 million and non-cash proceeds on disposal of undeveloped projects 80 104 205 Amount capitalised during the year 143 2 72 380 645 Net charge credit for the year Reconciliation to income statement Exploration and evaluation costs 594 514 1,134 Profit on disposal of interests in undeveloped projects 522 894 489 Net charge credit for the year 72 380 645 192 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information 13 Property, plant and equipment Mining Capital properties Land and Plant and works in a b and leases buildings equipment progress Total Year ended 31 December 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2010 6,738 5,958 25,595 7,512 45,803 Adjustment on currency translation 785 214 1,810 541 3,350 Capitalisation of additional closure costs note 27 872 872 c Interest capitalised note 7 182 182 Additions 170 171 829 3,117 4,287 a Depreciation for the year 432 320 2,316 3,068 Impairment charges, net of reversals 66 248 314 277 773 Disposals 17 77 6 100 Newly consolidated operations note 41 4,881 874 5,755 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 18 11 1 28 d Transfers and other movements 949 559 3,099 4,861 256 At 31 December 2010 14,029 6,299 28,615 7,081 56,024 cost 19,173 9,289 47,374 7,955 83,791 accumulated depreciation and impairment 5,144 2,990 18,759 874 27,767 e Non-current assets held under finance leases 19 33 52 f Other non-current assets pledged as security 4 15 1,742 37 1,798 Mining properties Land and Plant and Capital works a b and leases buildings equipment in progress Total Year ended 31 December 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2009 6,118 5,706 22,112 7,817 41,753 Adjustment on currency translation 1,130 349 2,890 1,257 5,626 Capitalisation of additional closure costs note 27 268 268 c Interest capitalised note 7 8 9 181 198 Additions 242 115 1,346 3,108 4,811 a Depreciation for the year 412 364 2,264 3,040 Impairment charges, net of reversals 170 308 473 321 1,272 Disposals 4 16 49 21 82 Subsidiaries now equity accounted 250 156 476 349 1,231 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 319 184 503 6 1,012 d Transfers and other movements 119 816 3,003 4,154 216 At 31 December 2009 6,738 5,958 25,595 7,512 45,803 cost 11,028 8,973 41,990 8,154 70,145 accumulated depreciation and impairment 4,290 3,015 16,395 642 24,342 e Non-current assets held under finance leases 21 67 88 f Other non-current assets pledged as security 6 15 1,703 27 1,751 a Mining properties include deferred stripping costs of US$1,033 million 2009: US$900 million.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs of US$11 million 2009: US$3 million: 2008: US$35 million is included within Depreciation for the year.
There is no impairment of deferred stripping costs charged to the income statement in 2010 2009: US$59 million: 2008: nil.
b At 31 December 2010, the net statement of financial position amount for land and buildings includes freehold US$6,037 million 2009: US$5,834 million : long leasehold US$217 million 2009: US$83 million : and short leasehold US$45 million 2009: US$41 million.
c Interest is capitalised at a rate based on the Groups cost of borrowing or at the rate on project specific debt, where applicable.
The Groups average borrowing rate used for capitalisation of interest is 5.0 per cent 2009: 4.2 per cent: 2008: 3.9 per cent.
d Transfers and other movements include reclassifications between categories.
e The finance leases under which these assets are held are disclosed in note 23. f Excludes assets held under finance leases.
Non-current assets pledged as security represent amounts pledged as collateral against US$244 million 2009: US$224 million of loans, which are included in note 22. www.
com 193 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 14 Investments in equity accounted units 2010 2009 Summary statement of financial position Rio Tinto share US$m US$m Rio Tintos share of assets Non-current assets 9,737 9,707 Current assets 2,576 2,329 12,313 12,036 Rio Tintos share of liabilities Current liabilities 1,394 1,089 Non-current liabilities 4,416 4,212 5,810 5,301 a Rio Tintos share of net assets 6,503 6,735 a Further details of investments in jointly controlled entities and associates are set out in notes 38 and 39.
At 31 December 2010, the quoted value of the Groups share in associates having shares listed on recognised stock exchanges was US$5,280 million 2009: US$1,230 million.
15 Net debt of equity accounted units excluding amounts due to Rio Tinto Rio Tinto Rio Tinto Group share of Group share of interest net debt interest net debt 2010 2010 2009 2009 % US$m % US$m Jointly controlled entities Sohar Aluminium Company LLC 20.0 330 20.0 343 Minera Escondida Limitada 30.0 163 30.0 226 Richards Bay Minerals 37.0 94 37.0 199 Halco Mining Inc. 45.0 27 45.0 37 Queensland Alumina Limited QAL 80.0 11 80.0 18 Associates a Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. 40.3 404 19.7 58 Port Waratah Coal Services 27.6 305 27.6 225 Minerao Rio do Norte S. A.
12.0 39 12.0 36 Cloud Peak Energy Resources LLC 48.3 170 Other equity accounted units 86 99 479 1,097 a Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. owns 66 per cent of Oyu Tolgoi LLC, which is consolidated by Rio Tinto.
Net debt of Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. excludes its share of the net debt of Oyu Tolgoi LLC.
In accordance with IAS 28 and IAS 31, the Group includes its net investment in equity accounted units in its consolidated statement of financial position.
This investment is net of the Groups share of the net debt of such units, which is set out above.
Further details of investments in jointly controlled entities and associates are set out in notes 38 and 39.
Some of the debt of equity accounted units is subject to financial and general covenants.
US$12 million of the debt shown above is with recourse to Rio Tinto at 31 December 2010 2009: nil.
194 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information 16 Inventories 2010 2009 US$m US$m Raw materials and purchased components 1,162 1,120 Consumable stores 1,279 1,278 Work in progress 1,357 1,410 Finished goods and goods for resale 1,333 1,365 5,131 5,173 Comprising: Expected to be used within one year 4,756 4,889 Expected to be used after more than one year 375 284 5,131 5,173 Inventory write downs amounting to US$115 million 2009: US$99 million: 2008: US$280 million were recognised during the year.
17 Trade and other receivables Non-current Current Non-current Current 2010 2010 2009 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade receivables 10 3,939 14 3,442 a Provision for doubtful debts 37 62 Trade receivables net 10 3,902 14 3,380 Amounts due from equity accounted units 337 217 320 197 Other receivables 300 1,017 247 641 Pension surpluses note 50 110 15 2 b Prepayment of tolling charges to jointly controlled entities 787 424 Other prepayments 282 446 355 227 1,826 5,582 1,375 4,447 a At 31 December 2010, trade and other receivables of US$37 million 2009: US$62 million were impaired.
The majority of these receivables were more than 90 days overdue.
b Rio Tinto Alcan has made certain prepayments to jointly controlled entities for toll processing of bauxite and alumina.
These prepayments will be charged to Group operating costs as processing takes place.
There is no material element of trade and other receivables that is interest bearing.
Due to their short term maturities, the fair value of trade and other receivables approximates their carrying value.
As of 31 December 2010, trade and other receivables of US$292 million 2009: US$454 million were past due but not impaired.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m less than 30 days overdue 162 262 between 30 and 60 days overdue 67 93 between 60 and 90 days overdue 17 18 more than 90 days overdue 46 81 292 454 These relate to a number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default or other indicators of impairment.
With respect to trade and other receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as of the reporting date that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations.
com 195 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 18 Deferred taxation 2010 2009 US$m US$m At 1 January 2,073 2,687 Adjustment on currency translation 340 297 Charged credited to the income statement 270 517 a Credited to statement of comprehensive income 226 319 b Newly consolidated operations note 41 834 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 2 82 Subsidiaries now equity accounted 14 Transfer to asset held for sale 3 190 c Other movements 26 211 At 31 December 3,312 2,073 Comprising: d deferred tax liabilities 5,175 4,304 d deferred tax assets 1,863 2,231 Deferred tax balances for which there is a right of offset within the same jurisdiction are presented net on the face of the statement of financial position as permitted by IAS 12.
The closing deferred tax liabilities and assets, prior to this offsetting of balances, are shown below.
Australian Other Total Total UK tax tax countries tax 2010 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities arising from: Allowances for property, plant and equipment 80 2,231 5,113 7,424 5,982 Post retirement benefits 36 36 Unremitted earnings 437 437 616 Unrealised exchange gains 601 92 693 84 Other temporary differences 516 109 625 594 80 3,348 5,787 9,215 7,276 Deferred tax assets arising from: Capital allowances 71 71 63 Provisions 95 1,008 1,075 2,178 1,908 Post retirement benefits 67 28 1,206 1,301 1,556 Tax losses 75 192 1,332 1,599 1,286 Unrealised exchange losses 528 1 529 149 Other temporary differences 68 157 225 241 237 1,824 3,842 5,903 5,203 Charged credited to the income statement Accelerated decelerated capital allowances 14 76 27 35 388 Provisions 4 75 173 244 228 Post retirement benefits 38 11 210 259 6 Tax losses 257 60 261 64 448 Tax on unremitted earnings 12 12 18 Unrealised exchange losses 173 49 222 618 Other temporary differences 1 273 200 74 59 286 398 414 270 517 a The amounts credited directly to the statement of comprehensive income relate to tax relief on share options, provisions for tax on exchange differences on intragroup loans qualifying for reporting as part of the net investment in subsidiaries, on cash flow hedges and on actuarial gains and losses on pension schemes and post retirement healthcare plans.
b Deferred tax relating to newly consolidated operations arises on the difference between the provisional fair value and the tax base of the assets of Oyu Tolgoi LLC at the date of consolidation.
Refer to note 41. c Other movements include deferred tax relating to tax payable recognised by subsidiary holding companies on the profits of the equity accounted units to which it relates.
Other movements in 2010 also included amounts relating to the divestment of the Alcan Packaging businesses and Alcan Engineered Products, excluding Cable Division classified as assets held for sale at year end.
d The deferred tax liability of US$5,175 million 2009: US$4,304 million includes US$5,009 million 2009: US$4,091 million due in more than one year.
The deferred tax asset of US$1,863 million 2009: US$2,231 million includes US$853 million 2009: US$2,109 million receivable in more than one year.
e US$1,217 million 2009: US$1,426 million of potential deferred tax assets have not been recognised as assets in these accounts.
There is a time limit for the recovery of US$22 million of these potential assets 2009: US$20 million.
US$449 million 2009: US$620 million of the potential assets relate to realised or unrealised capital losses, recovery of which depends on the existence of capital gains in future years.
US$467 million 2009: US$503 million of the potential assets relate to trading losses in France, which were acquired as part of the Alcan acquisition.
f Deferred tax is not recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities where the Group is able to control the timing of the remittance and it is probable that there will be no remittance in the foreseeable future.
If these earnings were remitted, tax of US$146 million 2009: US$888 million would be payable.
g There is a limited time period for the recovery of US$675 million 2009: US$401 million of tax losses which have been recognised as deferred tax assets in the financial statements.
196 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information 19 Assets and liabilities held for sale At 31 December 2010 At 31 December 2010, assets and liabilities held for sale comprise Alcans Engineered Products group AEP, excluding the Cable Division following the receipt on 5 August 2010, of a binding offer from funds affiliated with Apollo Global Management, LLC.
Apollo and the Fonds Stratgique dInvestissement FSI to buy a 61 per cent stake in AEP, excluding the Cable Division.
The divestment was completed on 4 January 2011.
The terms of the transaction are confidential.
Refer to note 48 Events after the statement of financial position date.
At 31 December 2009 At 31 December 2009, assets and liabilities held for sale mainly comprised Alcans Packaging group Packaging.
An impairment of US$318 million relating to the Packaging business was recognised during the year ended 31 December 2009, and included in Loss after tax from discontinued operations.
Loss after tax from discontinued operations of US$449 million also included a US$131 million tax charge relating to an increase in the Groups estimate of the tax to be paid on sale of the Packaging business.
Proceeds from disposal Rio Tinto completed the sale of Alcan Packaging global pharmaceuticals, global tobacco, food Europe and food Asia divisions to Amcor for a total consideration of US$1,948 million on 1 February 2010.
The consideration was adjusted to exclude Medical Flexibles operations and to reflect actual business performance over the six months preceding completion.
The sale of the Alcan Packaging Food Americas division to Bemis Company Inc. for a total consideration of US$1.2 billion, was completed on 1 March 2010.
On 5 July 2010, Rio Tinto completed the divestment of the remainder of its Alcan Packaging business with the closing of the sale of the Medical Flexibles business acquired by Amcor for US$66 million and of the sale of the Alcan Beauty Packaging business acquired by Sun European Partners LLP for an undisclosed sum.
20 Other financial assets Non-current Current Non-current Current 2010 2010 2009 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m Currency and commodity contracts: designated as hedges 8 Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: not designated as hedges 19 124 65 226 Derivatives related to net debt 137 6 Equity shares and quoted funds 585 365 439 219 Other investments, including loans 593 26 337 168 Other liquid resources non-cash equivalent 73 1,334 521 841 694 Detailed information relating to other financial assets is given in note 34. www.
com 197 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 21 Cash and cash equivalents 2010 2009 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 1,785 831 Short term bank deposits 8,163 3,402 Balance per Group statement of financial position 9,948 4,233 Bank overdrafts repayable on demand unsecured 7 91 Cash and cash equivalents included in Assets held for sale 18 Balance per Group cash flow statement 9,959 4,142 Cash and cash equivalents include US$398 million 2009: US$16 million for which there are restrictions on remittances.
22 Borrowings Non-current Current Non-current Current 2010 2010 2009 2009 Borrowings at 31 December Note US$m US$m US$m US$m a Syndicated bank loans 8,480 Other loans Finance leases 23 70 12 104 19 b Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% 2013 98 100 b c Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 5.875% 2013 621 2,622 b Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 8.95% 2014 1,922 1,967 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 1.875% 2015 500 b c Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 6.5% 2018 1,953 1,878 b Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 9.0% 2019 1,446 1,449 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 3.5% 2020 992 b c Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% 2028 906 871 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 5.20% 2040 500 b Alcan Inc. Debentures 6.45% due 2011 401 406 b Alcan Inc.
Global Notes 5.75% due 2035 282 281 Colowyo Coal Company L. P. Bonds 9.56% 2011 12 23 Colowyo Coal Company L. P. Bonds 10.19% 2016 35 69 5 d European Medium Term Notes 322 Other secured loans 356 41 325 63 Other unsecured loans 375 591 337 347 e Total borrowings 13,277 1,057 22,155 756 a Syndicated bank loans related to revolving credit facilities arranged for the acquisition of Alcan Inc. in 2007, all of which had been fully repaid and cancelled at 31 December 2010 2009: US$8.5 billion.
The US$5 billion revolving syndicated bank Facility C was undrawn at 31 December 2009.
In addition to the syndicated bank loan facilities shown above, there were US$2.3 billion of unused committed bilateral banking facilities at 31 December 2009 consisting of US$1.0 billion maturing December 2011 and US$1.3 billion maturing December 2012.
These facilities were cancelled in November 2010 when a US$6 billion five year stand-by revolving credit facility was entered into by the Group.
The US$6 billion facility was undrawn at 31 December 2010.
Any borrowings under this facility are at prevailing LIBOR rates plus an agreed margin dependent on the amount of drawdown and the credit rating of the Group.
The facility is not subject to any financial covenants.
Refer to note 33 v Liquidity and Capital risk management for further details.
b As at 31 December 2010, US$7.6 billion notional of the fixed rate borrowings shown were fully swapped to floating rates and US$0.3 billion notional of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited 9.0 per cent 2019 fixed interest rate bond was swapped for the first two years to floating rates.
Fair value hedge accounting has been applied to all borrowings except for Alcan Inc. Debentures 6.45 per cent due 2011 and Alcan Inc.
Global Notes 4.875 per cent due 2012.
The fair value of interest rate swap assets and liabilities at 31 December 2010 was US$143 million and US$34 million, respectively.
These are included in other financial assets and other financial liabilities in the statement of financial position.
Details of the major interest rate swaps are shown in note 34 B c. c As at 31 December 2009, US$5.0 billion notional of the fixed rate borrowings shown were fully swapped to floating rates.
Fair value hedge accounting was applied to all borrowings.
The fair value of interest rate swaps at 31 December 2009 was US$97 million.
These are included in other financial liabilities in the statement of financial position.
Details of the major currency swaps are shown in note 34 B c. d Rio Tinto has a US$10 billion 2009: US$10 billion European Medium Term Note EMTN programme for the issuance of debt, of which nil was outstanding at 31 December 2010 2009: US$0.3 billion.
The Groups EMTNs were swapped to US dollars: there were no fair value of currency swap liabilities at 31 December 2010 2009: US$68 million included in other financial liabilities in the statement of financial position.
Details of the major currency swaps are shown in note 34 B c. e The Groups borrowings of US$14.3 billion 2009: US$22.9 billion include some US$4.4 billion 2009: US$4.6 billion which relates to borrowings of subsidiaries that are without recourse to the Group, some of which are subject to various financial and general covenants with which the respective borrowers were in compliance as at 31 December 2010.
198 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information 23 Capitalised finance leases 2010 2009 US$m US$m Present value of minimum lease payments Total minimum lease payments 89 131 Effect of discounting 7 8 82 123 Payments under capitalised finance leases: Due within one year 12 19 Between 1 and 3 years 21 40 Between 3 and 5 years 12 29 More than 5 years 37 35 82 123 24 Consolidated net debt 2010 2009 US$m US$m Analysis of changes in consolidated net debt At 1 January 18,861 38,672 Adjustment on currency translation 1,269 2,265 a Exchange gains credited to the income statement 1,130 2,222 Gains on derivatives related to net debt 20 Cash movements excluding exchange movements 15,244 19,909 Newly consolidated operations 213 Other movements 315 75 At 31 December 4,284 18,861 Reconciliation to statement of financial position categories: Borrowings note 22 14,334 22,911 Bank overdrafts repayable on demand note 21 7 91 Cash and cash equivalents note 21 9,948 4,233 Other liquid resources note 20 73 Derivatives related to net debt note 34 109 165 4,284 18,861 2010 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m Exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances excluded from Underlying earnings Exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt 1,119 2,211 1,675 Exchange losses gains on intragroup balances 589 1,912 1,523 Exchange gains losses on loans from equity accounted units 20 36 36 Exchange losses gains on settlement of dividend 21 30 12 Credited charged to income statement 529 365 176 a Exchange gains taken to the income statement include amounts taken to Underlying earnings.
Further information relating to the currency and interest rate exposures arising from net debt and related derivatives is given in note 34 B c on Financial instruments.
com 199 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 25 Trade and other payables Non-current Current Non-current Current 2010 2010 2009 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade payables 2,068 1,959 Amounts owed to equity accounted units 505 222 197 205 a Other payables 138 865 128 512 Employee entitlements 681 856 Royalties and mining taxes 594 325 Accruals and deferred income 109 2,097 125 1,865 Government grants deferred 127 49 141 37 879 6,576 591 5,759 a Other payables include deferred consideration of US$108 million 2009: US$119 million relating to certain assets acquired.
The deferred consideration is included at its net present value.
The amortisation of the discount applied in establishing the net present value is treated as a finance cost.
All other accounts payable and accruals are non-interest bearing.
Due to their short term maturities, the fair value of trade and other payables approximates their carrying value.
26 Other financial liabilities Non-current Current Non-current Current 2010 2010 2009 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m Forward commodity contracts: designated as hedges 262 159 371 128 Derivatives related to net debt 34 97 68 Other derivatives and embedded derivatives: not designated as hedges 63 106 133 167 Other financial liabilities 57 49 416 265 601 412 Detailed information relating to other financial liabilities is given in note 34.
200 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information 27 Provisions not including taxation Close down and Pensions and post restoration retirement Other employee environmental Total Total a b c d e healthcare entitlements Other 2010 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 5,150 795 6,916 833 13,694 10,933 Adjustment on currency translation 68 63 465 1 461 913 Amounts capitalised 872 872 268 Subsidiaries now equity accounted 277 Charged credited to income statement: new provisions 209 20 229 62 increases to existing provisions 346 124 123 62 655 769 unused amounts reversed 25 48 1 74 82 exchange gains losses on provisions 4 97 4 97 181 Amortisation of discount 4 293 2 299 255 Utilised in year 1,110 272 102 133 1,617 833 Actuarial losses recognised in equity 860 860 693 Transfers to from assets held for sale 718 21 19 71 829 774 Transfers and other movements 12 7 5 178 168 38 At 31 December 4,472 866 8,602 539 14,479 13,694 Statement of financial position analysis: Current 133 508 267 209 1,117 1,182 Non-current 4,339 358 8,335 330 13,362 12,512 Total 4,472 866 8,602 539 14,479 13,694 a The main assumptions used to determine the provision for pensions and post retirement healthcare, and other information, including the expected level of future funding payments in respect of those arrangements, are given in note 50. b The provision for other employee entitlements includes a provision for long service leave of US$267 million 2009: US$205 million, based on the relevant entitlements in certain Group operations and includes US$132 million 2009: US$229 million of provision for redundancy and severance payments.
On 1 July 2010, the Performance Share Plan formerly the Mining Companies Comparative Plan was redesignated from cash-settled to equity-settled due to a change in settlement terms.
This resulted in a provision balance of US$57 million being reclassified to reserves, refer to note 30.
Further details of the plans treatment are provided in note 49. c The Groups policy on close down and restoration costs is described in note 1 k. Close down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining, and the majority of close down and restoration expenditure is incurred at the end of the relevant operation.
Remaining lives of mines and infrastructure range from one to over 50 years with an average, weighted by closure provision, of around 21 years 2009: 23 years.
Provisions of US$8,602 million 2009: US$6,916 million for close down and restoration costs and environmental clean up obligations include estimates of the effect of future inflation and have been adjusted to reflect risk.
These estimates have been discounted to their present value at an average rate of approximately four per cent per annum, being an estimate of the long term, risk free, pre-tax cost of borrowing.
Excluding the effects of future inflation, and before discounting, this provision is equivalent to some US$12.3 billion 2009: US$10.1 billion.
d Some US$687 million 2009: US$505 million of environmental clean up expenditure is expected to take place within the next five years.
The remainder includes amounts for the operation and maintenance of remediation facilities in later years.
The provision for environmental clean up expenditure includes the issue described in e below.
e Includes provision for remediation of contamination of ground water in the vicinity of the Bingham Canyon mine as a result of the agreement between Kennecott Utah Copper KUC with the US Environmental Protection Agency EPA and the State of Utah in 1995.
In September 2008, the EPA withdrew its proposal to list the Kennecott South Zone Site on the Superfund National Priorities List.
This action recognises that soil clean up work is complete and that groundwater clean up is adequately initiated and financial assurance is in place to assure completion of the work.
com 201 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 28 Share capital Rio Tinto plc 2010 2009 2008 Number Number Number 2010 2009 2008 million million million US$m US$m US$m Issued and fully paid up share capital At 1 January 1,529.00 1,004.10 1,071.80 246 160 172 a c Ordinary shares issued 524.90 0.18 86 b Own shares purchased and cancelled 67.88 12 At 31 December 1,529.00 1,529.00 1,004.10 246 246 160 d Special Voting Share of 10p 1 only 1 only 1 only d DLC Dividend Share of 10p 1 only 1 only 1 only shares repurchased and held in treasury 2.69 5.03 5.91 shares held by public 1,526.31 1,523.97 998.19 Shares held by public At 1 January 1,523.97 998.19 997.25 a c Ordinary shares issued 524.90 0.18 a b Shares reissued from treasury 2.34 0.88 0.76 At 31 December 1,526.31 1,523.97 998.19 Unissued share capital Ordinary shares of 10p each 171.00 171.00 417.13 27 27 63 d Equalisation Share of 10p 1 only 1 only 1 only Total authorised share capital 1,700.00 1,700.00 1,421.23 273 273 223 a No new Ordinary shares were issued in 2010.
2,336,005 Ordinary shares were reissued from treasury during the year resulting from the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share based payment plans, with exercise prices between 7.98p and 40.07p per share 2009: 440,018 shares issued, and 874,925 shares reissued from treasury with exercise prices between 7.98p and 29.38p per share: 2008: 183,714 shares issued, and 763,919 shares reissued from treasury with exercise prices between 8.09p and 35.57p per share.
524,460,478 new Ordinary shares were issued in July 2009 as a result of the Rio Tinto plc rights issue.
Further detail on rights issues is provided in note 46. b The authority for the Company to buy back its Ordinary shares was renewed at the 2010 annual general meeting.
No shares were bought back and held in treasury from 2008 to 2010.
Refer to note 48 for details of the share buy-back programme announced after the statement of financial position date.
During 2008, as part of the Groups internal capital management programme, Rio Tinto undertook a series of transactions, whereby 67,880,000 shares held by Rio Tinto plc in treasury were sold to Rio Tinto Limited at market value, before being immediately repurchased by Rio Tinto plc for a nominal amount, pursuant to the share purchase approval granted by Rio Tinto plc shareholders at the 2008 Rio Tinto plc annual general meeting.
The shares were then cancelled upon their repurchase by Rio Tinto plc.
c The aggregate consideration received for treasury shares reissued was US$92 million 2009: US$3 million: 2008: US$25 million.
No new shares were issued as a result of the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share based payment plans.
The aggregate consideration for new shares issued resulting from the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share based payment plans was US$32 million in 2009 and US$6 million in 2008.
The aggregate gross consideration received for new shares issued arising from the rights issue during 2009 was US$12.0 billion.
The difference between the nominal value and issue price of the shares issued was credited to merger reserve and expenses associated with the rights issue were charged against the share premium account.
d The Special Voting Share was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited on Joint Decisions, following the DLC merger.
Directors have the ability to issue an Equalisation Share if that is required under the terms of the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement.
The DLC Dividend Share was issued to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the DLC structure.
During 2010, US$39 million of shares 2009: US$17 million of shares: 2008: nil were purchased by the Employee Share Ownership Trust on behalf of Rio Tinto plc to satisfy future share options and awards as they vest.
Information relating to share options and other share based incentive schemes is given in note 49 on share based payments.
202 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information 29 Share capital Rio Tinto Limited 2010 2009 2008 Number Number Number 2010 2009 2008 million million million US$m US$m US$m Issued and fully paid up share capital At 1 January 435.76 285.75 285.75 4,924 961 1,219 Adjustment on currency translation 677 710 258 a Ordinary shares issued 150.01 3,253 At 31 December 435.76 435.76 285.75 5,601 4,924 961 c Share capital held by Rio Tinto plc 171.07 171.07 b Special Voting Share of 10p 1 only 1 only 1 only b DLC Dividend Share of 10p 1 only 1 only 1 only b Total share capital 435.76 606.83 456.82 a No new Ordinary shares were issued during 2010.
150,015,297 Ordinary shares were issued during 2009 as a result of the Rio Tinto Limited rights issue.
The aggregate gross consideration received for new shares issued during 2009 was US$3.2 billion.
Further detail on rights issues is provided in note 46. b The Special Voting Share was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc on Joint Decisions following the DLC merger.
c The authority for the Company to buy back shares was renewed at the 2010 annual general meeting.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, Rio Tinto Limited purchased and cancelled 171,072,520 ordinary shares off-market, which were held by Tinto Holdings Australia Pty Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto plc.
The selective buy-back and cancellation were approved by shareholders at the 2010 Rio Tinto Limited annual general meeting.
As a result of these transactions, no ordinary shares in Rio Tinto Limited were held by the above subsidiary of Rio Tinto plc at 31 December 2010.
No shares were bought back during 2009 and 2008.
Share options exercised during the year to 31 December 2010 under various Rio Tinto Limited employee share option schemes were satisfied by the on-market purchase of Rio Tinto Limited shares by a third party on the Groups behalf.
com 203 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 30 Other reserves and retained earnings 2010 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m a Capital redemption reserve At 1 January 12 12 Own shares purchased and cancelled 12 At 31 December 12 12 12 b Hedging reserves At 1 January 128 14 174 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge fair value losses gains 72 206 28 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge losses transferred to the income statement 47 16 245 Net movement on equity accounted units cash flow hedges 1 3 Cash flow hedge gains reclassified on disposal 4 Tax on the above 1 52 88 At 31 December 155 128 14 c Available for sale revaluation reserves At 1 January 247 107 57 Gains losses on available for sale securities 213 357 173 Gains on available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 10 3 1 Tax on the above 23 10 At 31 December 427 247 107 d Other reserves At 1 January 11,776 169 19 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto Limited shareholders to satisfy share options 84 35 128 Employee share options: value of services 48 30 27 d Merger reserve arising from Rio Tinto plcs rights issue 11,936 Deferred tax on share options 21 14 87 Cash settled share options reclassified as equity settled 24 At 31 December 11,785 11,776 169 e Foreign currency translation reserve At 1 January 2,103 2,072 2,514 Parent and subsidiaries currency translation and exchange adjustments 1,230 3,732 4,383 Equity accounted units currency translation adjustments 208 456 300 Currency translation reclassified on disposal 6 13 2 Tax on the above 27 99 At 31 December 3,574 2,103 2,072 Total other reserves per statement of financial position 15,643 14,010 2,322 204 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information 2010 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m f Retained earnings At 1 January 20,477 17,134 19,033 Parent and subsidiaries profit for the year 14,315 4,497 3,879 Equity accounted units retained profit loss for the year 9 375 203 g Actuarial losses 769 973 1,299 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 236 269 365 Total comprehensive income for the year 13,791 4,168 2,742 Dividends paid 1,754 876 1,933 Own shares purchased and cancelled 2,767 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto plc shareholders to satisfy share options 39 17 Ordinary shares held in treasury, reissued to satisfy share options 8 3 25 h Employee share options 69 65 34 Cash settled share options reclassified as equity settled 33 At 31 December 32,585 20,477 17,134 a The capital redemption reserve was set up to comply with section 170 of the Companies Act 1985, when shares of a company are redeemed or purchased wholly out of the companys profits.
The amount at 31 December 2010 reflects the amount by which the Companys issued share capital is diminished in accordance with section 733 of the Companies Act 2006. b The hedging reserve records gains or losses on cash flow hedges that are recognised initially in equity, as described in note 1 p. iii.
c The available for sale revaluation reserves record fair value gains or losses relating to available for sale securities, as described in note 1 p. i. d Other reserves record the cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto Limited, less, where applicable, the cost of shares purchased to satisfy share options exercised.
The cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto plc is recorded in retained earnings.
Other reserves includes US$11,936 million which represents the difference between the nominal value and issue price of the shares issued arising from Rio Tinto plcs rights issue completed in July 2009.
No share premium was recorded in the Rio Tinto plc financial statements through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the Companies Act 1985. e Exchange differences arising on the translation of the Groups net investment in foreign controlled companies are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve, as described in note 1 d. The cumulative differences relating to an investment are transferred to the income statement when the investment is disposed of.
f Retained profit and movements in reserves of subsidiaries include those arising from the Groups share of proportionally consolidated units.
g This includes actuarial losses relating to equity accounted units of US$4 million 2009: US$126 million: 2008: US$5 million.
h The movement during 2009 included IFRS 2 charges arising from a Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE transaction.
The discount to fair value arising from this transaction was treated as a share based payment in accordance with IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share based Payments and AC 503 Accounting for BEE Transactions.
com 205 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 31 Operating segments 2010 2009 2008 a Gross sales revenue US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 24,024 12,598 16,527 Aluminium 15,206 12,038 18,297 Copper 7,782 6,206 5,748 Energy 5,652 4,869 5,984 Diamonds & Minerals 3,035 2,618 3,820 Other Operations 5,734 6,563 9,405 Reportable segments total 61,433 44,892 59,781 Inter-segment transactions 1,110 856 1,716 Gross sales revenue 60,323 44,036 58,065 Share of equity accounted units and adjustments for intra-subsidiary equity accounted units sales 3,747 2,211 3,801 Consolidated sales revenue per income statement 56,576 41,825 54,264 b Underlying earnings Iron Ore 10,189 4,126 6,017 Aluminium 773 560 1,281 Copper 2,534 1,878 1,615 Energy 1,187 1,167 2,432 Diamonds & Minerals 328 800 474 Other Operations 71 71 13 Reportable segments total 15,082 7,482 11,832 Inter-segment transactions 15 28 25 Other items 554 577 391 Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups 52 5 133 Net interest 474 584 1,030 Underlying earnings 13,987 6,298 10,303 Items excluded from Underlying earnings note 2 337 1,426 6,627 Net earnings attributable to owners of Rio Tinto per income statement 14,324 4,872 3,676 c Depreciation and amortisation Iron Ore 993 763 705 Aluminium 1,563 1,551 1,543 Copper 565 541 442 Energy 367 296 415 Diamonds & Minerals 268 290 361 Other Operations 89 315 332 Reportable segments total 3,845 3,756 3,798 Other items 114 111 91 Less: depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units 522 440 414 Depreciation and amortisation per note 3 3,437 3,427 3,475 206 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information 2010 2009 2008 d Tax charge US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 4,602 1,868 2,869 Aluminium 110 565 875 Copper 705 582 261 Energy 537 521 944 Diamonds & Minerals 39 37 287 Other Operations 10 70 4 Reportable segments total 5,705 2,513 5,240 Other items 216 270 99 Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups 1 30 31 Net interest 152 228 380 5,338 1,985 4,730 Tax charge excluded from Underlying earnings note 2 42 91 988 Tax charge per income statement 5,296 2,076 3,742 Capital expenditure Iron Ore 1,716 2,148 2,996 Aluminium 1,328 1,690 2,417 Copper 958 553 804 Energy 685 510 666 Diamonds & Minerals 300 519 1,283 Other Operations 237 404 662 Reportable segments total 5,224 5,824 8,828 Other items 75 54 151 Less: capital expenditure of equity accounted units 746 522 491 Capital expenditure per Financial information by business units 4,553 5,356 8,488 Add: Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 38 32 90 Less: Funding of equity accounted units for major capital expenditure 4 Capital expenditure per cash flow statement 4,591 5,388 8,574 Rio Tintos management structure is based on the principal product groups shown above together with the global functions that support the business.
The chief executive of each product group reports to the chief executive of Rio Tinto.
The chief executive of Rio Tinto monitors the performance of each product group based on a number of measures including capital expenditure and operating cash flows, with Underlying earnings being the key financial performance indicator.
Interest costs and net debt are managed on a group basis.
Generally, business units are allocated to product groups based on their primary product.
The Energy product group includes both coal and uranium businesses.
The Diamonds & Minerals product group includes businesses with products such as borates, talc and titanium dioxide feedstock together with diamonds operations.
The Copper group includes certain gold operations in addition to copper.
The Aluminium group excludes Alcan Engineered Products which is included in Other Operations.
Other Operations includes Rio Tintos interests in its US coal operations formerly reported under Rio Tinto Energy America within the Energy product group.
2009 and 2008 comparatives have been restated accordingly.
The Financial information by business unit provided on page 250 of these financial statements provide additional voluntary disclosure which the Group considers is useful to the users of the financial statements.
a Gross sales revenue Product group gross sales revenue includes the Groups share of the sales revenue of equity accounted units after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries.
Rio Tintos share of the sales revenue of equity accounted units is deducted in arriving at consolidated sales revenue as shown on the face of the income statement.
Inter-segment transactions relate to sales between Aluminium and Alcan Engineered Products which is included in Other Operations.
com 207 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 31 Operating segments continued b Underlying earnings As discussed in note 2, Underlying earnings is an alternative measure of earnings which provides a greater understanding of the underlying business performance of the Groups operations.
The measure of Underlying earnings is used by the chief executive of Rio Tinto to assess the performance of the product groups.
Product group earnings include earnings of subsidiaries and equity accounted units stated before finance items but after the amortisation of discount.
Rio Tintos share of the Underlying earnings of equity accounted units amounts to US$1,202 million in 2010 2009: US$864 million: 2008: US$1,047 million.
This amount is attributable as follows: US$1,016 million profit to the Copper group and US$186 million profit to other product groups 2009: US$750 million profit attributable to the Copper product group and US$114 million profit to other product groups: 2008: US$852 million profit attributable to the Copper product group and US$195 million profit to other product groups.
These amounts are included in Underlying earnings of the relevant product groups and include the Underlying earnings of the Groups tolling entities which process bauxite and alumina.
Tolling entities recharge the majority of their costs and would generally have minimal earnings.
The Energy product groups Underlying earnings in 2010 included US$229 million profit after tax in relation to the divestment of Maules Creek and Vickery coal projects.
The Diamonds & Minerals product groups Underlying earnings in 2009 included US$797 million profit after tax in relation to the divestment of undeveloped potash assets in Argentina and Canada.
In 2008, the Energy product groups Underlying earnings included a US$483 million profit after tax in relation to divestment of the undeveloped Kintyre uranium project in Western Australia.
c Depreciation and amortisation Product group depreciation and amortisation totals include 100 per cent of subsidiaries depreciation and amortisation and include Rio Tintos share of the depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units.
Rio Tintos share of the depreciation and amortisation charge of equity accounted units is deducted to arrive at depreciation and amortisation excluding equity accounted units as shown in note 3.
These figures exclude impairment charges, which are excluded from Underlying earnings.
d Tax charge This relates to the tax charge on the product groups Underlying earnings.
The reconciling item is the tax on amounts that are excluded in arriving at Underlying earnings.
Within product groups, tax of subsidiaries is stated before tax on finance items but after tax on the amortisation of the discount related to provisions.
The tax charge excludes tax on the earnings of equity accounted units of US$737 million 2009: US$491 million: 2008: US$596 million of which US$677 million 2009: US$498 million: 2008: US$515 million relates to the Copper product group.
If the eventual destination of the product sold through traders is not known then revenue is allocated to the location of the product at the time when the risks and rewards of ownership are passed.
Rio Tinto is domiciled in both the United Kingdom and Australia.
208 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Gross sales revenue by product Gross sales revenues of the Group are derived from the following products sold to external customers: 2010 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m Iron ore 23,834 12,096 15,975 Aluminium 13,808 11,126 16,542 Copper 5,716 4,775 4,495 Coal 5,360 5,683 7,011 Industrial minerals 2,955 2,677 3,388 Gold 1,086 972 379 Diamonds 682 450 840 Other 6,882 6,257 9,435 Gross sales revenue 60,323 44,036 58,065 Share of equity accounted units sales and intra-subsidiary equity accounted units sales 3,747 2,211 3,801 Consolidated sales revenue 56,576 41,825 54,264 Non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets, post-employment benefit assets and assets held for sale by location is shown below.
This is allocated based on the location of the business units holding the assets.
2010 2009 a Non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets US$m US$m Australia 36,460 31,543 Canada 25,349 24,766 United States 4,398 4,720 South America 2,404 2,419 France 1,890 2,298 Africa 1,642 1,665 United Kingdom 1,433 928 Europe excluding France 1,322 2,041 Indonesia 646 587 Other countries 8,266 1,212 83,810 72,179 Non-current assets excluded from analysis above: Deferred tax assets 1,863 2,231 Tax recoverable 89 85 Derivatives and other financial assets 1,334 841 b Loans to equity accounted units 1,363 1,593 Accounts receivable 778 593 Total non-current assets per statement of financial position 89,237 77,522 a Includes investments in equity accounted units totalling US$5,367 million 2009: US$5,312 million which represents the Groups share of net assets excluding quasi-equity loans shown separately within Loans to equity accounted units above.
b Loans to equity accounted units comprise quasi-equity loans of US$1,136 million 2009: US$1,423 million included in Investments in equity accounted units on the face of the statement of financial position and non-quasi equity loans of US$227 million 2009: US$170 million shown separately.
com 209 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 33 Financial risk management The Groups policies with regard to financial risk management are clearly defined and consistently applied.
They are a fundamental part of the Groups long term strategy covering areas such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital management.
Generally, the Group only sells commodities it has produced but also enters into third party direct transactions and physical swaps on alumina to balance the regional positions and to balance the loading on production facilities.
In the long term, natural hedges operate in a number of ways to help protect and stabilise earnings and cash flow.
The Group has a diverse portfolio of commodities and markets, which have varying responses to the economic cycle.
The relationship between commodity prices and the currencies of most of the countries in which the Group operates provides further natural protection in the long term.
Production of minerals is an important contributor to the Gross Domestic Products of Australia and Canada, countries in which the Group has a large presence.
As a consequence, the Australian and Canadian currencies have historically tended to strengthen when commodity prices are high.
In addition, the Groups policy of borrowing primarily at floating US dollar interest rates, after the impact of hedging, helps to counteract the effect of economic and commodity price cycles.
These natural hedges significantly reduce the necessity for using derivatives or other forms of synthetic hedging.
Such hedging is therefore undertaken to a strictly limited degree, as described below.
Treasury operates as a service to the business of the Rio Tinto Group and not as a profit centre.
Strict limits on the size and type of transaction permitted are laid down by the Rio Tinto board and are subject to rigorous internal controls.
Senior management is advised of corporate debt and currency, commodity and interest rate derivatives through a monthly reporting framework.
Rio Tinto does not acquire or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes: nor does it believe that it has material exposure to such trading or speculative holdings through its investments in joint ventures and associates.
Derivatives are used to separate funding and cash management decisions from currency exposure and interest rate management.
The Group uses interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps in conjunction with longer term funds raised in the capital markets to achieve a predominantly floating rate obligation which is consistent with the Groups interest and exchange rate policies, ie primarily US dollar LIBOR.
However, the Group reserves the right to realise swap positions to take advantage of favourable market conditions and to manage counterparty credit risk.
No material exposure to financial instruments held by the Group is considered to exist by virtue of the possible non performance of the counterparties.
Derivative contracts are carried at fair value based on published quotations for the period for which a liquid active market exists.
Beyond this period, Rio Tintos own assumptions are used.
i Foreign exchange risk Rio Tintos shareholders equity, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the Groups sales and the countries in which it operates.
The US dollar, however, is the currency in which the great majority of the Groups sales are denominated.
Operating costs are influenced by the currencies of those countries where the Groups mines and processing plants are located and also by those currencies in which the costs of imported equipment and services are determined.
The Australian and Canadian dollars and the Euro are the most important currencies apart from the US dollar influencing costs.
In any particular year, currency fluctuations may have a significant impact on Rio Tintos financial results.
A strengthening of the US dollar against the currencies in which the Groups costs are denominated has a positive effect on Rio Tintos Underlying earnings.
Given the dominant role of the US currency in the Groups affairs, the US dollar is the currency in which financial results are presented both internally and externally.
It is also the most appropriate currency for borrowing and holding surplus cash, although a portion of surplus cash may also be held in other currencies, most notably Australian dollars, Canadian dollars and the Euro.
This cash is held in order to meet short term operational and capital commitments and, for the Australian dollar, dividend payments.
The Group finances its operations primarily in US dollars, either directly or using cross currency interest rate swaps.
Certain US dollar debt and other financial assets and liabilities including intragroup balances are not held in the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
This results in an accounting exposure to exchange gains and losses as the financial assets and liabilities are translated into the functional currency of the subsidiary that accounts for those assets and liabilities.
These exchange gains and losses are recorded in the Groups income statement except to the extent that they can be taken to equity under the Groups accounting policy which is explained in note1 d. Gains and losses on US dollar net debt and on intragroup balances are excluded from Underlying earnings.
Other exchange gains and losses are included in Underlying earnings.
As noted above, Rio Tinto hedges interest rate and currency risk on most of its foreign currency borrowings by entering into cross currency interest rate swaps.
These have the economic effect of converting fixed rate foreign currency borrowings to floating rate US dollar borrowings.
See note 34 B c, Financial instruments for the details of currency and interest rate contracts relating to borrowings.
210 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information After taking into account relevant swap instruments, almost all of the Groups net debt is either denominated in US dollars or in the functional currency of the entity holding the debt.
The table below summarises the net debt by currency.
2010 2009 Net debt funds by currency US$m US$m United States dollar 4,182 18,466 Australian dollar 201 232 South African rand 62 60 UK sterling 24 35 Euro 9 140 Canadian dollar 123 137 Other 145 89 Total 4,284 18,861 Currency hedging Under normal market conditions, the Group does not generally believe that active currency hedging of transactions would provide long term benefits to shareholders.
The Group reviews on a regular basis its exposure and reserves the right to enter into hedges to maintain financial stability.
Currency protection measures may be deemed appropriate in specific commercial circumstances and are subject to strict limits laid down by the Rio Tinto board, typically hedging of capital expenditures and other significant financial items such as tax and dividends.
There was a legacy of currency forward contracts used to hedge operating cash flow exposures which were acquired with the North companies: these matured in 2010.
Refer to note 34-B a to c, Financial instruments for the currency forward and option contracts used to manage the currency risk exposures of the Group at 31 December 2010.
Foreign exchange sensitivity: Risks associated with exposure to financial instruments The sensitivities below give the estimated effect of a ten per cent weakening in the full year closing exchange rate of significant currencies against the US dollar on the value of financial instruments.
The impact is expressed in terms of the effect on net earnings, Underlying earnings and equity, assuming that each exchange rate moves in isolation.
The sensitivities are based on financial assets and liabilities held at year end, where balances are not denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary and exclude financial assets and liabilities held by equity accounted units.
They also exclude exchange movements on local currency deferred tax balances and provisions.
These balances will not remain constant throughout 2011, and therefore these numbers should be used with care.
At 31 December 2010 Gains losses associated with 10% weakening of the currency Of which amount Closing impacting Impact exchange Effect on net Underlying directly on rate earnings earnings equity Currency exposure US cents US$m US$m US$m a Australian dollar 102 209 75 2 Canadian dollar 100 35 56 South African rand 15 5 8 Euro 133 276 2 New Zealand dollar 77 19 3 www.
com 211 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 33 Financial risk management continued At 31 December 2009 Gains losses associated with 10% weakening of the currency Of which amount Closing impacting Impact exchange Effect on net Underlying directly on rate earnings earnings equity Currency exposure US cents US$m US$m US$m a Australian dollar 89 225 79 1 Canadian dollar 95 1 64 South African rand 14 2 6 Euro 144 251 13 New Zealand dollar 73 2 a The sensitivities show the net sensitivity of US$ exposures in A$ functional currency companies, for example, and A$ exposures in US$ functional currency companies.
The sensitivity associated with a ten per cent strengthening of the particular currency would be equal and opposite to the figures presented.
b The sensitivities presented are on financial assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and proportionally consolidated units, and do not include non-financial instruments such as provisions or post retirement benefits, or sensitivities arising from financial assets and liabilities within equity accounted units.
The impact of reflecting these items primarily impacts the Canadian dollar sensitivity, with a US$87 million reduction in net earnings 2009: US$69 million reduction, a US$85 million reduction in Underlying earnings 2009: US$67 million reduction, and a US$167 million increase recorded directly in equity 2009: US$114 million increase.
c Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. which has a US functional currency for accounting purposes, has a significant amount of US dollar denominated external and intragroup debt held in Canada and is taxed on a Canadian currency basis.
The above sensitivities as at 31 December 2010 for a ten per cent weakening of the Canadian dollar do not include the tax benefit related to this debt.
If the Canadian dollar weakened below 1.01 US dollars, capital losses would be generated and not recognised.
If the Canadian dollar had strengthened then tax charges would have begun to be recognised at 13 per cent.
Similarly at 31 December 2009, the above sensitivities for a ten per cent weakening of the Canadian dollar did not include any tax benefit related to this debt because the capital losses generated would not have been recognised.
If the Canadian dollar had strengthened above 1.03 US dollars then tax charges would have begun to be recognised at 15 per cent.
ii Interest rate risk Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument or cash flows associated with the instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates.
Rio Tintos interest rate management policy is generally to borrow and invest at floating interest rates.
This approach is based on historical correlation between interest rates and commodity prices.
In some circumstances, an element of fixed rate funding may be considered appropriate.
Rio Tinto hedges interest rate risk on most of its borrowings by entering into interest rate swaps in order to convert fixed rate foreign currency borrowings to floating rate US dollar borrowings.
The market value of these interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps moves in alignment with the market and at times can act as alternative sources of funding.
The Group reviews the positions on a regular basis and may act to either monetise in-the-money value or achieve lower costs of funding.
See note 34-B c, Financial instruments for the details of currency and interest rate contracts relating to borrowings.
At the end of 2010, US$5.8 billion 2009: US$8.3 billion of the Groups gross debt was at fixed rates after taking into account interest rate swaps and finance leases, making the fixed to floating debt ratio 40 per cent fixed to 60 per cent floating 2009: 36 per cent fixed to 64 per cent floating.
On a net debt basis, the fixed to floating debt ratio was 114 per cent fixed to 14 per cent floating 2009: 58 per cent to 42 per cent.
The net debt ratio at the end of 2010 reflects the high level of cash, cash equivalents and other liquid resources held by the Group, which offset floating rate liabilities in 2010.
A monthly Treasury report is provided to senior management which summarises corporate debt exposed to currency risks and, where applicable, the offsetting derivatives.
See note 22 Borrowings for the details of debt outstanding at 31 December 2010.
Based on the Groups net debt refer to note 24 and other floating rate financial instruments outstanding as at 31 December 2010, the effect on net earnings of a half percentage point increase in US dollar LIBOR interest rates, with all other variables held constant, would be an increase of US$2 million 2009: US$37 million reflecting the high level of cash at period end.
These balances will not remain constant throughout 2011, however, and therefore these numbers should be used with care.
iii Commodity price risk The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices.
Exceptions to this rule are subject to strict limits laid down by the Rio Tinto board and to rigid internal controls.
Rio Tintos exposure to commodity prices is diversified by virtue of its broad commodity base and the Group does not generally believe commodity price hedging would provide long term benefit to shareholders.
However, commodity price protection measures may be deemed appropriate in specific commercial circumstances, typically to obtain certainty over specific site sales where the cost base is relatively fixed and medium term margin achieved is deemed beneficial to shareholders.
The Group may hedge certain commitments with some of its customers or suppliers.
Details of commodity derivatives held at 31 December 2010 are set out in note 34 B a to c, Financial instruments.
Metals such as copper and aluminium are generally sold under contract, often long term, at prices determined by reference to prevailing market prices on terminal markets, such as the London Metal Exchange LME and COMEX in New York, usually at the time of delivery.
Prices fluctuate widely in response to changing levels of supply and demand but, in the long run, prices are related to the marginal cost of supply.
Gold is also priced in an active market in which prices respond to daily changes in quantities offered and sought.
Newly mined gold is only one source of supply: investment and disinvestment can be important elements of supply and demand.
Contract prices for many other natural resource products including iron ore and coal are generally agreed quarterly or for longer periods with customers, although volume commitments vary by product.
212 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Certain products, predominantly copper concentrate, are provisionally priced, ie the selling price is subject to final adjustment at the end of a period normally ranging from 30 to 180 days after delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised based on estimates of fair value of the consideration receivable based on forward market prices.
At each reporting date, provisionally priced metal is marked to market based on the forward selling price for the period stipulated in the contract.
For this purpose, the selling price can be measured reliably for those products, such as copper, for which there exists an active and freely traded commodity market such as the London Metal Exchange and the value of product sold by the Group is directly linked to the form in which it is traded on that market.
At the end of 2010, the Group had 270 million pounds of copper sales 2009: 267 million pounds that were provisionally priced at US 428 cents per pound 2009: US 335 cents per pound.
The final price of these sales will be determined during the first half of 2011.
A ten per cent change in the price of copper realised on the provisionally priced sales would increase or reduce net earnings by US$72 million 2009: US$55 million.
Approximately 24 per cent of Rio Tintos 2010 Underlying earnings from operating businesses came from products whose prices were terminal market related and the remainder came from products priced by direct negotiation.
Commodity price sensitivity: Risks associated with derivatives The table below summarises the impact of changes in the market price on the following commodity derivatives including those aluminium forward and option contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts outstanding at 31 December 2010, but excluding the impact of commodity and embedded derivatives held by equity accounted units see footnote a below.
The impact is expressed in terms of the resulting change in the Groups net earnings for the year or, where applicable, the change in equity.
The sensitivities are based on the assumption that the market price increases by ten per cent with all other variables held constant.
The Groups own use contracts are excluded from the sensitivity analysis below as they are outside the scope of IAS 39.
Such contracts to buy or sell nonfinancial items can be net settled but were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the nonfinancial item in accordance with the business units expected purchase, sale or usage requirements.
These sensitivities should be used with care.
The relationship between currencies and commodity prices is a complex one: changes in exchange rates can influence commodity prices and vice versa.
At 31 December 2010 Gains losses associated with 10% increase from year end price Effect directly on equity Effect on net attributable earnings to Rio Tinto Products US$m US$m Copper 21 Aluminium 10 15 Oil 4 Total 14 36 At 31 December 2009 Gains losses associated with 10% increase from year end price Effect directly on equity Effect on net attributable earnings to Rio Tinto Products US$m US$m Copper 1 18 Aluminium 19 24 Oil 3 Total 17 42 a The sensitivities presented do not include those arising from balances within equity accounted units.
The impact of reflecting equity accounted units primarily relates to the aluminium sensitivity, with a US$100 million reduction in net earnings 2009: US$55 million reduction.
iv Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities primarily from customer receivables and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments.
com 213 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 33 Financial risk management continued Credit risks related to receivables Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to Rio Tintos established policies, procedures and controls relating to customer credit risk management.
Credit limits are established for all customers based on internal or external rating criteria.
Where customers are rated by an independent credit rating agency, these ratings are used to set credit limits.
In circumstances where no independent credit rating exists, the credit quality of the customer is assessed based on an extensive credit rating scorecard.
Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and any credit concerns highlighted to senior management.
High risk shipments to major customers are generally covered by letters of credit or other forms of credit insurance.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had approximately 138 customers 2009: 70 customers that owed the Group more than US$5 million each and these balances accounted for approximately 70 per cent 2009: 52 per cent of all receivables owing.
There were 57 customers 2009: 17 customers with balances greater than US$20 million accounting for just over 53 per cent 2009: just over 30 per cent of total amounts receivable.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets mentioned on page 216.
The Group does not hold collateral as security for any trade receivables.
Credit risk related to financial instruments and cash deposits Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by Group Treasury in accordance with a board approved policy.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty.
Counterparty credit limits are reviewed by the Rio Tinto board on an annual basis, and may be updated throughout the year subject to approval of the Rio Tinto Finance committee.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate the potential for financial loss through counterparty failure.
No material exposure is considered to exist by virtue of the possible non-performance of the counterparties to financial instruments.
v Liquidity and Capital risk management The Groups total capital is defined as equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto plus equity attributable to noncontrolling interests plus net debt, and amounted to US$70 billion at 31 December 2010 2009: US$65 billion.
2010 2009 US$m US$m Total capital Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 58,333 43.831 Equity attributable to noncontrolling interests 6,941 2,094 Net debt note 24 4,284 18,861 Total capital 69,558 64,786 The Groups overriding objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the business as a going concern: to maximise returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders: and to maintain an optimal capital structure in order to provide a high degree of financial flexibility at the lowest cost of capital.
The board and senior management regularly review the capital structure of the Group taking account of strategic priorities and economic conditions within which the Group operates.
The unified credit status of the Group is maintained through cross guarantees whereby contractual obligations of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are automatically guaranteed by the other.
During the 2010 financial year, in recognition of the Groups improved balance sheet, Moodys improved the Groups long term credit rating from Baa1 to A3 and the short term credit rating was P2 with a stable outlook.
Standard & Poors S&P retained the Groups long term rating at BBB and the short term rating at A2 with an improvement in outlook from stable to positive.
In 2009, following the successful US$15.2 billion rights issues, both Moodys and S&P improved the Groups credit rating.
S&P upgraded the long term rating to BBB from BBB and its short term credit ratings to A2 from A3, the outlook improved from negative to stable.
Moodys affirmed the long term rating of Baa1 and short term corporate credit rating of P2 also with a stable outlook.
In October 2010, the Group tendered US$1.9 billion of its Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited 5.875% bond due in 2013 and refinanced this with the issue of three fixed rate Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited bonds amounting to US$500 million 1.875% bond due 2015, US$1,000 million 3.5 per cent bond due 2020 and US$500 million 5.2 per cent bond due 2040.
In November 2010, the Group entered into a US$6 billion five year multicurrency committed revolving credit facility with its relationship banks.
At 31 December 2010, the facility was undrawn.
The overall agreement also enables same day access to a US$ swingline facility.
The funds available under the facility agreement may be used for general corporate purposes of the Group.
214 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Prior to the new US$6 billion facility, the Groups backup facilities consisted of the US$5 billion revolving syndicated bank facility C from the Alcan acquisition facility and a series of standby bilateral bank facilities totalling US$2.3 billion.
These bilateral bank facilities contained no covenants.
At 31 December 2009, the bilateral facilities were not drawn.
In 2007, Rio Tinto acquired Alcan which was financed using a US$40 billion syndicated bank facility, comprising two term facilities Facilities A and D and two revolving facilities Facilities B and C. This facility contained a financial covenant requiring the maintenance of a ratio of no greater than 4.5 times of net borrowings to EBITDA.
Advances under each facility generally bore interest at rates per annum equal to the margin for that facility plus LIBOR and any mandatory costs.
Facility A was fully repaid during 2009.
US$8.5 billion was drawn under Facility D at 31 December 2009 but this was fully repaid during 2010.
At 31 December 2009, US$2.1 billion of Facility B remained available but undrawn.
In February 2010, in accordance with the acquisition facility agreement, proceeds from the sale of the majority of Alcan Packaging to Amcor were used to cancel US$2 billion of the outstanding capacity.
At the same time, the Group voluntarily surrendered the remaining US$0.1 billion of this facility.
At 31 December 2009, US$5 billion of Facility C was available but undrawn.
This facility was cancelled in November 2010.
The Groups net debt as a percentage of total capital was six per cent at 31 December 2010 2009: 29 per cent.
The Group has a progressive dividend policy which aims to increase the US dollar value of ordinary dividends over time, taking into account the results for the past year and the outlook.
In February 2011, as part of the Groups capital management programme, a share buy-back of US$5 billion was announced which, subject to market conditions, is planned to be completed by the end of 2012.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the statement of financial position date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances will not necessarily agree with the amounts disclosed in the statement of financial position.
Expected Trade future Derivatives Other Total and other Borrowings interest related to net financial financial a payables before swaps payments debt liabilities liabilities At 31 December 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Within 1 year, or on demand 4,985 1,066 705 15 312 7,053 Between 1 and 2 years 575 557 742 17 276 2,133 Between 2 and 3 years 1,232 730 18 159 2,103 Between 3 and 4 years 2,605 606 15 30 3,226 Between 4 and 5 years 965 530 11 30 1,514 After 5 years 7,783 4,166 26 22 11,997 5,560 14,208 7,479 50 829 28,026 Expected Trade future Derivatives Other Total and other Borrowings interest related to net financial financial a payables before swaps payments debt liabilities liabilities At 31 December 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Within 1 year, or on demand 4,416 878 942 52 365 6,653 Between 1 and 2 years 463 884 203 1,550 Between 2 and 3 years 9,087 910 2 204 10,199 Between 3 and 4 years 3,269 840 177 4,286 Between 4 and 5 years 2,767 591 58 3,416 After 5 years 6,725 3,857 162 54 10,798 4,416 23,189 8,024 212 1,061 36,902 a Interest payments have been projected using spot interest rates applicable at 31 December, including the impact of interest rate swap agreements, where appropriate.
Much of the debt is subject to variable interest rates.
Future interest payments are therefore subject to change in line with market rates.
com 215 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 34 Financial instruments Except where stated, the information given below relates to the financial instruments of the parent companies and their subsidiaries and proportionally consolidated units, and exclude those of equity accounted units.
The information is grouped in the following sections: A Financial assets and liabilities by categories B Derivative financial instruments C Fair values A Financial assets and liabilities by categories Other Available financial Loans and for sale Held at assets and Total receivables securities fair value liabilities At 31 December 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents note 21 9,948 9,948 a Trade and other receivables 5,708 5,708 Equity shares and quoted funds note 20 950 950 b Other investments, including loans note 20 619 185 64 289 81 Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: not designated as hedges note 20 143 143 Derivatives related to net debt note 20 143 143 Loans to equity accounted units including quasi-equity loans 1,473 1,473 Total financial assets 18,984 17,314 1,014 575 81 Financial liabilities c Trade and other payables 5,560 5,560 Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts notes 21 and 22 1,064 1,064 Medium and long term borrowings note 22 13,277 13,277 a Deferred consideration note 25 108 108 Forward commodity contracts: designated as hedges note 26 421 421 Derivatives related to net debt note 26 34 34 Other derivatives and embedded derivatives not designated as hedges note 26 169 169 Other financial liabilities note 26 57 57 Total financial liabilities 20,690 624 20,066 216 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Other Available financial Loans and for sale Held at assets and Total receivables securities fair value liabilities At 31 December 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents note 21 4,233 4,233 a Trade and other receivables 4,739 4,739 Equity shares and quoted funds note 20 658 658 b Other investments, including loans note 20 505 270 77 158 Other liquid resources note 20 73 73 Currency and commodity contracts: designated as hedges note 20 8 8 Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: not designated as hedges note 20 291 291 Loans to equity accounted units including quasi-equity loans 1,761 1,761 Total financial assets 12,268 11,076 735 457 Financial liabilities c Trade and other payables 4,416 4,416 Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts notes 21 and 22 847 847 Medium and long term borrowings note 22 22,155 22,155 a Deferred consideration note 25 119 119 Forward commodity contracts: designated as hedges note 26 499 499 Derivatives related to net debt note 26 165 165 Other derivatives and embedded derivatives not designated as hedges note 26 300 300 Other financial liabilities note 26 49 49 Total financial liabilities 28,550 964 27,586 a This excludes pension surpluses, prepayment of tolling charges to jointly controlled entities and other prepayments and accrued income.
b This includes US$81 million of held to maturity investments within Other financial assets and liabilities.
c Trade and other payables includes trade creditors, amounts owed to equity accounted units, other creditors, excluding deferred consideration shown separately, and accruals.
B Derivative financial instruments The Groups derivatives, including embedded derivatives, as at 31 December 2010, are summarised below: a Forward contracts relating to operating transactions: designated as hedges Total fair value 2010 2010 2009 2009 Asset Liability Asset Liability US$m US$m US$m US$m Currency forward contracts 8 Copper forward contracts 409 435 Aluminium forward contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts 12 4 Aluminium options embedded in electricity purchase contracts 56 Coal forward contracts 4 Total 421 8 499 Less than 1 year 159 8 128 Between 1 and 5 years 262 371 Total 421 8 499 www.
com 217 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 34 Financial instruments continued Reconciliation to statement of financial position categories for derivatives designated as hedges 2010 2009 US$m US$m current assets note 20 8 current liabilities note 26 159 128 non-current liabilities note 26 262 371 Total derivatives designated as hedges, detailed above 421 491 The above copper forward contracts were entered into as a condition of the refinancing of Palabora in 2005, and reduce the Groups exposure to movements in the copper price.
Coal forward contracts have been entered into in order to reduce exposure to movements in the coal price.
The above currency forward contracts were acquired with companies purchased in 2000 and were entered into by those companies in order to reduce their exposure to the US dollar through forecast sales.
Aluminium price exposures are embedded within certain aluminium smelter electricity purchase contracts.
These contracts reduce the Groups exposure to movements in the aluminium price.
The hedged forecast transactions denominated in foreign currencies and the hedged commodity purchase or sales contracts are expected to occur in line with the maturity dates of the derivatives hedging these particular exposures.
Gains and losses recognised in equity for these cash flow hedges will be recycled into the income statement in the period during which the hedged transaction affects the income statement.
Where the hedged transaction relates to capital expenditures, the gain or loss on the derivative will be recognised in the income statement within depreciation as the fixed asset is amortised.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity, net of tax and noncontrolling interests, for the year to 31 December 2010, comprised cash flow hedge fair value losses of US$56 million including equity accounted units 2009: losses of US$151 million and net cash flow hedge losses reclassified from equity and included in the income statement for the year amounted to US$29 million 2009: US$13 million: 2008: US$168 million.
The ineffective portion arising from cash flow hedges recognised in the income statement was US$1 million 2009: US$2 million: 2008: US$6 million.
b Forward and option contracts relating to operating transactions: not designated as hedges Total fair value 2010 2010 2009 2009 Asset Liability Asset Liability US$m US$m US$m US$m Currency forward contracts and swaps 5 4 61 Aluminium forward contracts 131 17 216 47 Aluminium options embedded in electricity purchase contracts 43 146 Aluminium forward contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts 4 Other embedded derivatives 101 100 Other commodity contracts 7 14 7 Total 143 169 291 300 Less than 1 year 124 106 226 167 Between 1 and 5 years 18 47 65 119 More than 5 years 1 16 14 Total 143 169 291 300 218 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Reconciliation to statement of financial position categories for derivatives not designated as hedges 2010 2009 US$m US$m non current assets note 20 19 65 current assets note 20 124 226 current liabilities note 26 106 167 non current liabilities note 26 63 133 Total derivatives not designated as hedges, detailed above 26 9 Embedded options exist within electricity purchase contracts for certain smelters.
These derivatives reduce the Groups exposure to movements in the aluminium price.
A number of put and call options were combined to form synthetic forward contracts that were designated as hedges of variable priced aluminium sales.
The above aluminium forward contracts were taken out to manage exposure to movements in the aluminium price.
These contracts are not designated as hedges as they are predominantly offset by other aluminium forward contracts.
c Currency and interest contracts relating to borrowings Total fair value 2010 2010 2009 2009 Asset Liability Asset Liability US$m US$m US$m US$m Currency and interest rate swap contracts 68 Interest rate swap contracts designated as hedges 132 34 97 Interest rate swap contracts not designated as hedges 11 Total 143 34 165 Less than 1 year 6 68 Between 1 and 5 years 137 34 8 More than 5 years 89 Total 143 34 165 Reconciliation to statement of financial position categories for currency and interest derivatives 2010 2009 US$m US$m non current assets note 20 137 current assets note 20 6 current liabilities note 26 68 non current liabilities note 26 34 97 Total currency and interest rate contracts, detailed above 109 165 The currency contracts are used to swap nonUS dollar denominated external debt to US dollar floating.
The interest rate contracts are used to convert certain fixed rate obligations to a floating rate.
Refer to note 22 Borrowings for further details.
The ineffective portion arising from fair value hedges recognised in the income statement was US$10 million 2009: nil: 2008: US$91 million.
C Fair values The carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups financial instruments which are not carried at an amount which approximates to their fair value at 31 December are shown in the following table.
The fair values of the Groups cash, short term borrowings and loans to jointly controlled entities and associates approximate their carrying values, as a result of their short maturity or because they carry floating rates of interest.
31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Carrying Carrying value Fair value value Fair value US$m US$m US$m US$m Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations Medium and long term borrowings note 22 13,277 15,875 22,155 23,318 www.
com 219 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 34 Financial instruments continued Valuation hierarchy The table below includes financial instruments carried at fair value in note 34 A by valuation method at 31 December 2010.
Not held a b c Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 at fair value Assets Equity shares and quoted funds note 20 950 897 16 37 Other investments, including loans note 20 619 150 203 266 1,569 1,047 16 240 266 Derivatives a Forward contracts: designated as hedges Section B of note 34 421 409 12 Forward contracts and option contracts not designated as hedges b Section B of note 34 26 16 42 c Currency swaps hedging borrowings Section B of note 34 c Interest rate swap agreements Section B of note 34 109 110 1 1,231 1,047 267 185 266 The table below includes financial instruments carried at fair value in note 34 A by valuation method at 31 December 2009.
Not held at a b c Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 fair value Assets Equity shares and quoted funds note 20 658 644 14 Other investments, including loans note 20 505 129 106 270 1,163 773 14 106 270 Derivatives a Forward contracts: designated as hedges Section B of note 34 491 430 61 Forward contracts and option contracts not designated as hedges b Section B of note 34 9 132 141 c Currency swaps hedging borrowings Section B of note 34 68 68 c Interest rate swap agreements Section B of note 34 97 97 498 773 449 96 270 a Valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
This category includes listed equity shares and other quoted funds.
b Valuation is based on inputs that are observable for the financial instruments which includes quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active or either directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
c Valuation is based on inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
220 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Level 3 Financial assets and financial liabilities The table below shows the summary of changes in the fair value of the Groups level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities for the year ended 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009.
31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Level 3 financial Level 3 financial assets and financial assets and financial liabilities liabilities Opening balance 96 50 Currency translation adjustments 2 1 Realised gains to income statement 91 24 Unrealised gains losses to income statement 147 35 Unrealised losses to comprehensive income 66 Additions 27 38 Disposals 18 6 Closing balance 185 96 Total losses for the year included in the income statement for assets and liabilities held at year end 97 31 35 Contingent liabilities and commitments 2010 2009 US$m US$m a Capital commitments including those related to joint ventures and associates Within 1 year 5,219 2,439 Between 1 and 3 years 2,264 1,050 Between 3 and 5 years 90 308 After 5 years 78 Total 7,573 3,875 a Included in the above table are other commitments of US$25 million 2009: US$117 million.
Capital commitments incurred by the Group relating to joint ventures and associates amount to US$1,421 million 2009: US$261 million.
Capital commitments incurred jointly with other venturers Rio Tinto share relating to joint ventures amount to US$695 million 2009: US$539 million.
In addition to the above, the Group has agreed to provide Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. with an interim loan facility of US$1,800 million while Rio Tinto and Ivanhoe work together to complete project financing for the development of the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold project.
Refer to note 41 for further details relating to the Groups interest in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. and Oyu Tolgoi.
Operating leases The aggregate amount of minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Within 1 year 507 484 Between 1 and 3 years 854 628 Between 3 and 5 years 561 287 After 5 years 1,107 451 3,029 1,850 www.
com 221 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 35 Contingent liabilities and commitments continued Unconditional purchase obligations The aggregate amount of future payment commitments for the next five years under unconditional purchase obligations outstanding at 31 December was: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Within 1 year 2,295 1,339 Between 1 and 2 years 1,466 1,054 Between 2 and 3 years 1,468 1,113 Between 3 and 4 years 1,305 1,006 Between 4 and 5 years 1,210 891 After 5 years 10,156 7,404 17,900 12,807 Unconditional purchase obligations relate to commitments to make payments in the future for fixed or minimum quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum prices.
The future payment commitments set out above have not been discounted and mainly relate to commitments under take or pay power and freight contracts.
They exclude unconditional purchase obligations of jointly controlled entities apart from those relating to the Groups tolling arrangements.
2010 2009 US$m US$m Contingent liabilities excluding those relating to joint ventures and associates Indemnities and other performance guarantees 557 316 a Contingent liabilities relating to joint ventures and associates Incurred in relation to interests in joint ventures 214 233 Incurred in relation to other venturers contingent liabilities 79 73 a Amounts disclosed include those arising as a result of the Groups investments in both jointly controlled assets and jointly controlled entities.
b There are a number of legal claims currently outstanding against the Group.
No material loss to the Group is expected to result from these claims.
Employee numbers for proportionally consolidated and equity accounted units are proportional to the Groups interest.
Average employee numbers include a part year effect for companies acquired or disposed of during the year.
Part time employees are included on a full time equivalent basis.
Temporary employees are included in employee numbers.
People employed by contractors are not included.
222 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information 37 Principal subsidiaries and consolidated operations At 31 December 2010 Class of Proportion of Group Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities shares held class held % interest % Australia Argyle Diamonds Limited Mining and processing of diamonds Ordinary 100 100 Coal & Allied Industries Limited Coal mining Ordinary 75.71 75.71 Dampier Salt Limited Salt production Ordinary 68.40 68.40 Energy Resources of Australia Limited Uranium mining Class A 68.39 68.39 Hamersley Iron Pty Limited Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 a Queensland Coal Pty Limited Coal mining Ordinary 100 100 Rio Tinto Aluminium Holdings Limited Bauxite mining: alumina production: Ordinary 100 100 primary aluminium smelting Canada b Iron Ore Company of Canada Inc. Iron ore mining: iron ore pellets Common shares 58.72 58.72 QITFer et Titane Inc. Titanium dioxide feedstock: Common shares 100 100 high purity iron and steel Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. Bauxite mining: alumina refining: Class B preference shares 100 100 production of specialty alumina: Common shares 100 100 aluminium smelting: engineered products France Talc fide Luzenac France SA Mining, refining and marketing of talc Ordinary 15.25 100 100 Madagascar QIT Madagascar Minerals SA Ilmenite mining Common shares 80 80 Mongolia Oyu Tolgoi LLC Copper and gold mining in development c Namibia d Rssing Uranium Limited Uranium mining B N$1 71.16 68.58 } C N10c 70.59 Papua New Guinea e Bougainville Copper Limited Copper and gold mining Ordinary 1 Kina 53.58 53.58 South Africa Palabora Mining Company Limited Copper mining, smelting and refining Ordinary R1 72.03 57.67 United States of America Kennecott Holdings Corporation including Copper and gold mining, smelting and Common US$0.01 100 100 Kennecott Utah Copper, Kennecott Land refining, land development and and Kennecott Exploration exploration activities U. S. Borax Inc. Mining, refining and marketing of borates Common US$0.10 100 100 The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those companies that have a more significant impact on the profit or assets of the Group.
The Groups principal subsidiaries are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
With the exception of Iron Ore Company of Canada, which is incorporated in the US companies operate mainly in the countries in which they are incorporated.
a Queensland Coal Pty Limited is the main legal entity that owns the shares shown in note 40 of Hail Creek, Blair Athol, Clermont and Kestrel.
b This entity is incorporated in the United States of America but operates in Canada.
c The Group holds no direct equity interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC: this entity is consolidated by virtue of contractual rights which permit the exercise of control over certain policies and activities of Oyu Tolgoi LLC.
Refer to note 41 for further details relating to the consolidation of Oyu Tolgoi LLC from 15 December 2010. d The Groups shareholding in Rssing Uranium Limited carries 35.54 per cent of the total voting rights.
Rssing is consolidated by virtue of board control.
e The results of Bougainville Copper Limited are not consolidated.
com 223 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 38 Principal jointly controlled entities At 31 December 2010 Number of Class of Proportion of Group Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities shares held shares held class held % interest % Australia a Boyne Smelters Limited Aluminium smelting 153,679,560 Ordinary 59.4 59.4 b Leichhardt Coal Pty Limited Coal mining 20,115,000 Ordinary 44.7 44.7 a Queensland Alumina Limited Alumina production 1,769,600 Ordinary 80 80 Chile c Minera Escondida Limitada Copper mining and refining 30 30 New Zealand New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Aluminium smelting 24,998,400 Ordinary 79.4 79.4 a Limited Norway SorNorge Aluminium A. S. Aluminium smelting 500,000 Ordinary 50 50 Oman Sohar Aluminium Company L. L. C. Aluminium smelting power 37,500 Ordinary 20 20 generation South Africa Richards Bay Titanium Pty Ltd Titanium dioxide high purity iron production Preferred Ordinary 37.7 } A Ordinary 150,960 B Ordinary 51 A Preference 38.5 } 140,046 B Preference 51 Richards Bay Mining Pty Ltd Ilmenite, rutile and zircon mining Preferred Ordinary A Ordinary 36.3 } 36,260 B Ordinary 49 A Preference 37.0 } 31,335B Preference 49 United States of America Halco Mining Inc. d 4,500 Common 45 45 Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. e 100 Common 50 50.3 } 1Preferred 100 The Group has joint control of the above operations which, except as disclosed in note d below, are independent legal entities.
It therefore includes them in its accounts using the equity accounting method.
The Group comprises a large number of operations and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those jointly controlled entities that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Groups principal jointly controlled entities are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
With the exception of footnote d and e, all jointly controlled entities operate mainly in the countries in which they are incorporated.
a While the Group holds more than a 50 per cent interest in these entities, other participants have veto rights over operating, financing and strategic decision making.
Accordingly, the Group does not have the ability to unilaterally control, and therefore does not consolidate these entities.
b Leichhardt has a 31.4 per cent interest in the Blair Athol Coal joint venture.
As a result, the Group has a further beneficial interest of 14 per cent in addition to its direct interest of 57.2 per cent, which is owned via a subsidiary of Rio Tinto Limited.
The Blair Athol Coal joint venture is disclosed as a jointly controlled asset in note 40. c The year end of Minera Escondida Limitada is 30 June.
However, the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements of Rio Tinto are based on accounts of Minera Escondida Limitada that are coterminous with those of the Group.
d Halco has a 51 per cent indirect interest in Compagnie des Bauxites fide Guine, a bauxite mine, the core assets of which are located in Guinea.
e Pechiney Reynolds Quebec has a 50.1 per cent interest in the Aluminerie fide Becancour aluminium smelter, which is located in Canada.
224 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information 39 Principal associates At 31 December 2010 Principal Number of Class of Proportion of Group Company and country of incorporation operation activities shares held shares held class held % interest % Brazil a Minerao Rio do Norte SA Bauxite mining25,000,000 Ordinary 12.5 12 } 47,000,000 Preferred 11.8 Cameroon Compagnie Camerounaise fide lAluminum Aluminium smelting 1,623,127 Ordinary 46.7 46.7 Canada b Ivanhoe Mines Ltd Copper and gold mining 229,251,843 Common 40.3 40.3 The Groups principal associates are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
The list therefore only includes those associates that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
With the exception of Ivanhoe Mines Ltd, the core assets of which are located in Mongolia, all associates operate mainly in the countries in which they are incorporated.
a Minerao Rio do Norte SA is accounted for as an associated company because the Group has significant influence through representation on its board of directors.
b Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. owns 66 per cent of Oyu Tolgoi LLC, which the Group consolidates refer to note 37.
The Group only equity accounts for its interest in the net assets of Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. that does not relate to Oyu Tolgoi LLC.
Refer to note 41 for further details of additions to the Groups investment in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. during 2010.
40 Principal jointly controlled assets and other proportionally consolidated units At 31 December 2010 Group Name and country of operation Principal activities interest % Australia Tomago Aluminium Joint Venture Aluminium smelting 51.6 a Bengalla Coal mining 30.3 b Blair Athol Coal Coal mining 71.2 Clermont Coal Coal mining 50.1 Hail Creek Coal mining 82 Kestrel Coal mining 80 c Mount Thorley Coal mining 60.6 Warkworth Coal mining 42.1 Northparkes Mine Copper gold mining and processing 80 Gladstone Power Station Power generation 42.1 d Robe River Iron Associates Iron ore mining 53 Hope Downs Joint Venture Iron ore mining 50 HIsmelt Iron technology 60 Brazil Consrcio fide Alumnio Maranho Alumina production 10 Canada Alouette Aluminium production 40 Diavik Mining and processing of diamonds 60 Indonesia Grasberg expansion Copper and gold mining 40 The Group comprises a large number of operations, and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those proportionally consolidated units that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Groups proportionally consolidated units are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a The Group owns a 40 per cent interest in Bengalla through its 75.71 per cent investment in Coal and Allied, giving a beneficial interest to the Group of 30.3 per cent.
b The Group has a direct interest of 57.2 per cent in Blair Athol Coal, and an additional 14 per cent interest through its investment in Leichhardt Coal Pty Limited, which is disclosed as a jointly controlled entity in note 38. c The Group owns an 80 per cent interest in Mount Thorley through its 75.71 per cent investment in Coal and Allied, giving a beneficial interest to the Group of 60.6 per cent.
d The Group holds 65 per cent of Robe River Iron Associates, of which 30 per cent is held through a 60 per cent owned subsidiary.
The Groups net beneficial interest is, therefore, 53 per cent, net of amounts attributable to outside equity shareholders.
com 225 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 41 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests in businesses 2010 acquisitions Consolidation of Oyu Tolgoi LLC On 15 December 2010, Rio Tinto gained control of Oyu Tolgoi LLC, following the signing of a new agreement with Ivanhoe Mines Ltd Ivanhoe.
Oyu Tolgoi LLC is consolidated by virtue of Rio Tintos contractual rights which permit it to exercise control over certain policies and activities of Oyu Tolgoi LLC.
No direct equity interest was acquired under the agreement and the existing equity arrangements were not changed as a result of the agreement.
Oyu Tolgoi LLC is owned 66 per cent by Ivanhoe and 34 per cent by the Government of Mongolia.
The signing of the agreement did not affect the Government of Mongolias economic interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC.
As part of the agreement by which Rio Tinto obtained its contractual rights, Rio Tinto agreed to exercise its remaining warrants for common shares in Ivanhoe, participate fully in Ivanhoes US$1.2 billion rights offering, and to provide Ivanhoe with a US$1.8 billion interim loan facility to fund the Oyu Tolgoi project.
The agreement secured for Rio Tinto the right to increase its ownership in Ivanhoe to 49 per cent by, in addition to exercising its remaining warrants for common shares, acquiring a total of 20 million shares at current market prices, evenly from Citibank and Ivanhoe executive chairman and chief executive officer, Robert Friedland, purchasing shares in the market, and exercising its right to subscribe for Ivanhoe common shares from treasury at market prices until January 2012.
On 15 December 2010, Rio Tinto exercised 33,783,784 Series B warrants for common shares at an exercise price of US$8.88 per share, paying a total of US$300 million, and acquired ten million shares in Ivanhoe from Robert Friedland at a market price of US$25.34 per share, paying a total of US$253 million.
These transactions increased Rio Tintos ownership in Ivanhoe to 40.5 per cent.
100 per cent of Oyu Tolgoi LLCs identifiable assets and liabilities have been recognised in the statement of financial position at fair values estimated with the assistance of an independent third party valuer, together with goodwill.
The historic cost of acquiring the Groups indirect share of Oyu Tolgoi LLC through its investment in Ivanhoe was deducted from investments in equity accounted units.
The Groups remaining interest in the assets of Ivanhoe that does not relate to Oyu Tolgoi LLC continues to be equity accounted.
The transaction generated a non-cash gain of US$531 million.
Due to the complexity of the valuation process, and the proximity of the date on which the agreement was effective to the reporting date, fair values on consolidation are provisional and will be subject to further review during the 12 months from the date on which the agreement was effective.
Oyu Tolgoi LLC owns and manages the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold complex in Mongolia, where full scale mine construction and development of a copper concentrator and related infrastructure are under way.
226 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Oyu Tolgoi LLC were provisionally estimated as follows: Provisional fair value US$m Intangible assets 38 Property, plant & equipment 5,755 Inventories 6 Cash 90 Other assets 171 Loans and borrowings 213 Deferred tax liabilities 834 Provisions for liabilities and charges 2 Other liabilities 218 Non-controlling interests 3,912 Goodwill 963 Net attributable assets including goodwill 1,844 Total consideration Provisional fair value of indirect equity interest in Oyu Tolgoi 1,476 Series B warrants exercised 300 Shares acquired from Robert Friedland 253 Non-Oyu Tolgoi share of Ivanhoe assets acquired 185 Total consideration 1,844 Reconciliation of gain recognised on acquisition Amount allocated from investments in EAUs 1,313 Attributable assets recognised per above 1,844 Amount included within gain on consolidation per the income statement 531 A non-controlling interest arises from the Government of Mongolias 34 per cent direct interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC, and from the portion of Ivanhoes 66 per cent direct interest not attributable to Rio Tintos 40.5 per cent equity holding in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. as at 15 December 2010.
In arriving at the non-controlling interest figure, an adjustment is made to reflect the fact that repayment of funding made by Ivanhoe is required before Oyu Tolgoi LLC can begin to pay dividends.
Goodwill arising on consolidation of US$963 million mostly comprises US$834 million calculated in accordance with the requirement in IFRS to recognise a deferred tax liability on the difference between the provisional fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities and their tax base.
There was no impact on Group sales revenue or profit after tax attributable to continuing operations for the period since Oyu Tolgoi LLCs consolidation in the Group income statement.
Had Oyu Tolgoi been consolidated from 1 January 2010, the consolidated income statement would have reduced by US$118 million to show profit after tax before attributing amounts to non-controlling interests of US$15,066 million.
Consolidated sales revenue would have been unaffected.
Ivanhoe Mines Limited In addition to the agreement described above, during the year ended 31 December 2010 Rio Tinto also entered into the transactions described below in relation to its investment in Ivanhoe Mines Limited Ivanhoe.
On 1 March 2010, Rio Tinto announced that it had agreed to acquire 15 million shares in Ivanhoe at a subscription price of C$16.31 per share, increasing its ownership in Ivanhoe by 2.7 per cent to 22.4 per cent.
The total consideration for this acquisition was C$244.7 million US$241 million.
The shares were issued to Rio Tinto in satisfaction of an agreement with Ivanhoe in 2008 to finance equipment for the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold complex in Mongolias South Gobi region.
After the completion of the acquisition, Rio Tinto owned 98.6 million shares in Ivanhoe.
com 227 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 41 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests in businesses continued On 30 June 2010, Rio Tinto increased its ownership in Ivanhoe to 29.6 per cent following the exercising of all its Series A warrants for a total consideration of US$393 million.
After the completion of the exercise of the Series A warrants, Rio Tinto owned 144.66 million shares in Ivanhoe.
On 13 September 2010, Rio Tinto increased its ownership to 34.9 per cent following automatic conversion of the US$350 million convertible debt facility Rio Tinto made available to Ivanhoe in 2007, which was fully drawn down by mid-2008.
After the completion of the conversion of the debt facility, Rio Tinto owned 184.75 million shares in Ivanhoe.
The progressive issue of share options and a share purchase plan at Ivanhoe which occurred after the date on which Oyu Tolgoi LLC was initially consolidated impacted Rio Tintos effective share, reducing it to 40.3 per cent at 31 December 2010.
The cash flow statement includes US$907 million in Acquisitions of subsidiaries, joint ventures & associates.
In accordance with IAS 7, this is stated net of US$90 million cash held in newly consolidated operations at the date of consolidation.
2009 acquisitions On 28 October 2009, Rio Tinto completed the second tranche of its private placement investment in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. increasing its ownership by 9.8 per cent to 19.7 per cent of Ivanhoes common shares.
The second tranche consisted of 46,304,473 common shares at a subscription price of US$8.38 per share for a total consideration of US$388 million.
There were no other significant acquisitions for the year ended 31 December 2009.
2008 acquisitions There were no significant acquisitions for the year ended 31 December 2008.
2010 disposals Disposals in 2010 relate mainly to the divestment on 21 December 2010 of the Groups remaining 48 per cent interest in Cloud Peak Energy Inc. through a secondary offering, for gross proceeds of US$573 million.
Proposed Simandou transaction with Chalco On 29 July 2010, Rio Tinto and Chalco signed a binding agreement to establish a joint venture JV covering the development and operation of the Simandou iron ore project in Guinea.
The binding agreement followed the signing of a memorandum of understanding between Rio Tinto and Chalcos parent Chinalco announced on 19 March 2010.
The agreement covers all aspects of how the JV and the project itself will operate and be governed, including planning, construction and management of the mine and associated rail and port infrastructure.
Under the terms of the agreement, Rio Tintos 95 per cent interest in the Simandou project will be held in the new JV.
Chalco will acquire a 47 per cent interest in the new JV by providing US$1.35 billion on an earn-in basis through sole funding of ongoing development work over the next two to three years.
Once Chalco has paid its US$1.35 billion, the effective interests of Rio Tinto and Chalco in the Simandou project would be 50.35 per cent and 44.65 per cent respectively.
The remaining five per cent is owned by the International Finance Corporation IFC, the financing arm of the World Bank.
Rio Tinto will retain control of the entity established to own the project.
The Government of Guinea holds an option to acquire up to a 20 per cent interest in the project, and has indicated an intention to exercise this option.
Upon the exercise taking effect, the effective interests in the project of each of Rio Tinto, Chalco and IFC would be reduced proportionately: however control would be retained by Rio Tinto.
The formation of the Rio Tinto Chalco JV remains subject to the satisfaction of certain regulatory requirements.
Once the JV takes effect, a wholly owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto will be appointed manager of the project, providing management services to the JV and being responsible for the day-to-day operations of the project.
Rio Tinto and Chalco will also establish a joint marketing company to market and distribute Simandou product to customers under an agency agreement with a wholly owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto.
Chinalco and Rio Tinto have entered into an agreement under which Chinalco guarantees the performance of Chalcos obligations under the Agreement.
Rio Tinto will continue to account for its interest in the Simandou project as a subsidiary.
The contributions to funding made by Chalco to acquire an interest in the project will be credited to equity.
2009 disposals On 1 December 2009, Rio Tinto completed the sale of Alcan Composites, part of Alcan Engineered Products, to Schweiter Technologies for a total consideration of US$349 million.
228 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information On 20 November 2009, Rio Tinto received US$741 million in connection with Cloud Peak Energy Incs initial public offering IPO and related transactions, comprising US$434 million net proceeds from the sale of part of Rio Tintos interest in Cloud Peak Energy Resources LLC CPER, in connection with Cloud Peak Energy Incs IPO of common stock, and a cash distribution by CPER of US$307 million from the proceeds of its debt offering of US$600 million.
An additional US$7 million was received as part of a working capital adjustment at 31 December 2009.
Rio Tinto retained an interest in CPER of 48 per cent, which was treated as an equity accounted unit EAU until its disposal on 21 December 2010.
US$660 million of sales proceeds arose from these transactions and US$151 million was received as dividends from an EAU.
The sales proceeds comprised the gross IPO proceeds of US$459 million, 52 per cent of the cash distribution by CPER representing the percentage not retained by the Group and US$38 million of deferred consideration.
On 1 October 2009, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its Jacobs Ranch coal mine to Arch Coal Inc. for a final cash consideration of US$764 million.
On 18 September 2009, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its Corumb iron ore mine and associated river logistics operations to Vale SA for a cash consideration of US$750 million.
On 26 January 2009, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 50 per cent equity share of the Alcan Ningxia aluminium joint venture in China to Qingtongxia Aluminium Group Co Ltd QTX for gross cash consideration of US$125 million.
The aggregated carrying value of the Groups share of the major classes of assets and liabilities at the dates of sale were: 2009 US$m Goodwill 184 Intangible assets 169 Property, plant & equipment 2,021 Investments in equity accounted units 11 Inventories 288 Other financial assets 251 Borrowings 12 Deferred tax liabilities 82 Provisions 796 Non-controlling interests 1 Net assets 2,033 Add: Divestment of investment in associate 80 Less: Retained investment in associates 359 Less: Recycled gains and losses and movements in other comprehensive income 18 Net assets and investments in associates disposed of 1,736 Consideration a Cash proceeds net of transactions costs 2,424 Deferred consideration 46 Accrued disposal costs 42 Net consideration 2,428 Gain on disposal 692 Net cash inflow from disposals 2,424 Acquisitions of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 396 Cash flow from disposals acquisitions of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 2,028 a Cash proceeds were stated net of US$20 million cash and cash equivalents transferred on sale of subsidiaries.
2008 Disposals On 5 March 2008, the Group completed the sale of its interest Rio Tinto share 40 per cent in the Cortez gold mine previously in the Copper product group for a sales price which included cash consideration of US$1,695 million.
The Group benefits from a deferred bonus payment in the event of a significant discovery of additional reserves and resources at the Cortez mine and also retains a contingent royalty interest in the future production of the property.
com 229 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 41 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests in businesses continued On 16 April 2008, the Group completed the sale of its joint venture interest Rio Tinto share 70.3 per cent in the Greens Creek mine to Hecla Mining Company.
Greens Creek, which mines silver, gold, zinc and lead, was previously part of the Copper product group.
The sale price was US$750 million, comprising a cash component of US$700 million with the balance in the common stock of Hecla Mining Company.
The aggregate profit on disposal of interests in businesses including investments in 2008 was US$2,231 million US$1,470 million net of tax.
These gains were excluded from Underlying earnings, as shown in note 2.
The cash flow statement includes US$2,572 million in Disposals of subsidiaries, joint ventures & associates and US$9 million paid for acquisitions in 2008.
In accordance with IAS 7, these proceeds were stated net of US$5 million cash and cash equivalents transferred on sale of subsidiaries.
Non-cash disposal proceeds of US$88 million were received during the year.
42 Directors and key management remuneration Aggregate remuneration, calculated in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, of the directors of the parent companies was as follows: 2010 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 US$000 Emoluments 11,384 18,021 10,620 Long term incentive plans 3,334 3,092 2,647 14,718 21,113 13,267 Pension contributions: defined contribution plans 54 389 338 Gains made on exercise of share options 17,265 20 The aggregate remuneration incurred by Rio Tinto plc in respect of its directors was US$10,510,000 2009: US$17,784,000: 2008: US$13,214,000.
The aggregate pension contribution to defined contribution plans was nil 2009: US$342,000: 2008: US$338,000.
The aggregate remuneration, including pension contributions and other retirement benefits, incurred by Rio Tinto Limited in respect of its directors was US$4,262,000 2009: US$3,718,000: 2008: US$391,000.
The aggregate pension contribution to defined contribution plans was US$54,000 2009: US$47,000: 2008: US$43,000.
During 2010, three directors 2009: three: 2008: two accrued retirement benefits under defined benefit arrangements, and one director 2009: two: 2008: one accrued retirement benefits under defined contribution arrangements.
Emoluments included in the table above have been translated from local currency at the average rate for the year with the exception of bonus payments which, together with amounts payable under long term incentive plans, have been translated at the year end rate.
Detailed information concerning directors remuneration, shareholdings and options is shown in the Remuneration report, including Tables 1 to 5, on pages 144 to 155 of the 2010 Annual report.
Aggregate compensation, representing the expense recognised under EU IFRS, of the Groups key management, including directors, was as follows: 2010 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 US$000 Short term employee benefits and costs 28,487 35,881 21,086 Post employment benefits 3,984 3,692 3,664 Termination benefits 1,357 Share based payments 20,822 34,476 5,360 53,293 75,406 19,390 The figures shown above include employment costs which comprise social security and accident premiums in the UK and US and payroll taxes in Australia paid by the employer as a direct additional cost of hire.
In total, they amount to US$2,020,000 2009: US$2,269,000: 2008: US$1,389,000 and although disclosed here, are not included in Table 1 of the Remuneration report.
In 2005, prior to being appointed a member of key management personnel, Andrew Harding relocated to the United States US.
As an expatriate in the US, Mr Harding was unable to access car leasing arrangements and so was loaned a sum of US$30,000 by the Group for the purposes of purchasing a car.
The loan repayable over 60 months attracted interest of US$3,235 during the term of the loan.
The balance as at 1 January 2010 was US$4,531 and the loan was repaid in full on 21 December 2010.
More detailed information concerning the remuneration of key management is shown in the Remuneration report, including Tables 1 to 5 on pages 144 to 155 of the 2010 Annual report.
230 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information 43 Auditors remuneration 2010 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m a Group auditors remuneration Audit services pursuant to legislation audit of the Groups annual accounts 2.9 2.3 3.2 audit of the accounts of the Groups subsidiaries 13.8 20.9 26.5 b Audit services in connection with divestment programme 9.1 22.0 24.4 25.8 45.2 54.1 Other services services in connection with bond issues capital raising 0.3 4.2 services in connection with bid defence 9.4 services in connection with divestment programme 5.0 8.4 25.8 c taxation services 0.4 2.1 3.3 other services 1.8 2.2 2.6 Total other services 7.5 16.9 41.1 33.3 62.1 95.2 d Remuneration payable to other accounting firms Audit services pursuant to legislation audit of accounts of the Groups subsidiaries 2.6 0.5 0.2 Non audit services c taxation services 6.6 9.1 15.8 financial systems design and implementation 0.2 internal audit 6.5 8.4 7.1 litigation services 0.4 0.1 e other services 15.9 12.2 42.0 32.0 30.3 65.3 Fees in respect of pension scheme audits 0.1 0.3 32.0 30.4 65.6 65.3 92.5 160.8 a The remuneration payable to , the Group auditors, is approved by the Audit committee.
The committee sets the policy for the award of non audit work to the auditors and approves the nature and extent of such work, and the amount of the related fees, to ensure that independence is maintained.
The fees disclosed above consolidate all payments made to  by the Companies and their subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the payments made by proportionally consolidated units.
Non-audit services arise largely from assurance and or regulation related work.
b Audit services represent assurance provided in respect of carve-out financial statements.
c Taxation services includes tax compliance and advisory services.
Tax compliance involves the preparation or review of returns for corporation, income, sales and excise taxes.
Tax advisory services includes advice on non recurring acquisitions and disposals, advice on transfer pricing and advice on employee global mobility.
d Remuneration payable to other accounting firms does not include fees for similar services payable to suppliers of consultancy services other than accountancy firms.
e Other services in 2010, 2009 and 2008 in respect of other accounting firms includes costs relating to capital raising, divestments and similar corporate services, pension fund and payroll administration, advice on accounting matters, secondments of accounting firms staff, forensic audit and other consultancy.
Other services in 2008 in respect of other accounting firms includes one off costs related to the rejection by the board of the pre-conditional takeover proposal from BHP Billiton which was withdrawn in November 2008. www.
com 231 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 44 Related party transactions Information about material related party transactions of the Rio Tinto Group is set out below: Subsidiary companies and proportionally consolidated units Details of investments in principal subsidiary companies are disclosed in note 37.
Information relating to proportionally consolidated units can be found in note 40.
Equity accounted units Transactions and balances with equity accounted units are summarised below.
Purchases relate largely to amounts charged by jointly controlled entities for toll processing of bauxite and alumina.
Sales relate largely to charges for supply of coal to jointly controlled marketing entities for onward sale to third party customers.
2010 2009 2008 Income statement items US$m US$m US$m Purchases from equity accounted units 3,009 2,558 2,770 Sales to equity accounted units 3,038 2,088 3,011 Cash flow statement items US$m US$m US$m Net funding of equity accounted units 154 265 334 Statement of financial position items US$m US$m a Investments in equity accounted units note 14 6,503 6,735 Loans to equity accounted units 337 338 Loans from equity accounted units 278 157 Trade and other receivables: amounts due from equity accounted units note 17 1,341 941 Trade and other payables: amounts due to equity accounted units note 25 727 402 a Further information about investments in equity accounted units is set out in notes 38 and 39.
In November 2009, as part of the disposal process of Cloud Peak, Rio Tinto Energy America Inc. and Cloud Peak Energy Resources LLC CPER agreed for existing Rio Tinto plc guaranteed surety bonds and letters of credit, principally securing the reclamation obligations for the Cloud Peak business, to continue for a transition period.
All of these guaranteed surety bonds and letters of credit had been replaced by CPER credit enhancements as at 31 December 2010 and Rio Tinto plc has therefore been released from these obligations.
Pension funds Rio Tinto plc guarantees to pay the Rio Tinto Pension Fund UK any contributions due from Group companies participating in that fund, pro rata to its ownership of those companies, in the event that the companies fail to meet their contribution requirements.
Furthermore, Rio Tinto plc agreed to put in place a guarantee for the Rio Tinto Pension Fund, in the standard form required by the Pension Protection Fund PPF, to cover 105 per cent of the Funds liabilities measured on the PPFs prescribed assumptions.
Other similar guarantees in place include a Rio Tinto plc guarantee to the Rio Tinto 2009 Pension fund, with no limit on liabilities, and a guarantee from British Alcan Aluminium plc to the British Alcan Pension Plan, covering the contributions due from participating employers up to a PPF funding level of 105 per cent.
Detailed information relating to pension fund arrangements is disclosed in note 50.
Directors and key management Details of directors and key management remuneration are set out in note 42 and in the Remuneration report on pages 128 to 155.
45 Exchange rates in US$ The principal exchange rates used in the preparation of the 2010 financial statements are: Annual average Year end 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Sterling 1.55 1.57 1.86 1.55 1.61 1.44 Australian dollar 0.92 0.79 0.86 1.02 0.89 0.69 Canadian dollar 0.97 0.88 0.94 1.00 0.95 0.82 South African rand 0.14 0.12 0.12 0.15 0.14 0.11 Euro 1.33 1.39 1.47 1.33 1.44 1.41 232 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information 46 Rights issues The terms of the rights issues in 2009 were: 21 New Rio Tinto plc Shares offered for every 40 existing shares at 1,400 pence per share and 21 New Rio Tinto Limited Shares offered for every 40 existing shares at A$28.29 per share, completed on 2 July 2009 and 3 July 2009 respectively.
Both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited entered into a series of forward US dollar derivative exchange contracts to minimise exposure to foreign exchange rates and provide confidence in absolute US dollar rights issue proceeds.
The forward contracts taken out by both companies were accounted for as derivatives, for which different accounting treatments were applied in accordance with IFRS hedge accounting rules.
This was due to the different functional currencies of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited US dollar and Australian dollar respectively.
Losses on contracts entered into by Rio Tinto plc were charged against share premium as share issue costs, while losses on the contracts entered into by Rio Tinto Limited were recognised in the income statement and excluded from Underlying earnings.
Settlement of losses on all contracts were included within Other investing cash flows in the cash flow statement.
The rights issues were at a discount to the then market price.
Accordingly, the earnings per share for all periods up to the date on which the shares were issued have been adjusted for the bonus element of the rights issues.
2008 comparatives for both earnings per share and ordinary dividends per share were adjusted accordingly.
47 Bougainville Copper Limited BCL Mining has been suspended at the Panguna mine since 1989.
Safe mine access by company employees has not been possible since that time and an accurate assessment of the condition of the assets cannot therefore be made.
Considerable funding would be required to recommence operations to the level which applied at the time of the mines closure in 1989.
An Order of Magnitude study undertaken in 2008 indicates that costs in a range of US$2 billion to US$4 billion would be required to re-open the mine assuming all site infrastructure is replaced.
The directors consider that the Group does not currently realise a benefit from its interest in BCL and therefore BCL information continues to be excluded from the financial statements.
BCL reported a net profit of US$1 million for the financial year 2009: net profit of US$3 million.
This is based upon actual transactions for the financial year.
The aggregate amount of capital and reserves reported by BCL as at 31 December 2010 was US$142 million 2009: US$138 million.
The Group owns 214,887,966 shares in BCL, representing 53.6 per cent of the issued share capital.
The investment of US$195 million was fully provided against in 1991.
At 31 December 2010, the number of shares in BCL held by the Group, multiplied by the share price as quoted in the Australian Stock Exchange, resulted in an amount of US$354 million 2009: US$114 million.
48 Events after the statement of financial position date On 4 January 2011, Rio Tinto completed the divestment of 61 per cent of Alcan Engineered Products AEP to certain investment funds affiliated with Apollo Global Management, LLC Apollo and the Fonds Stratgique dInvestissement FSI.
Apollo is now the majority shareholder in AEP with a 51 per cent stake in a new holding company for AEP, with the FSI holding 10 per cent.
Rio Tinto holds a 39 per cent stake and will treat its interest in AEP as an equity accounted unit.
On 3 February, Rio Tinto acquired an additional 34,387,776 additional shares in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. Ivanhoe, by participating fully in Ivanhoes strategic rights offering, paying a total of US$477 million and maintaining the Groups interest in Ivanhoe.
On 3 February, Rio Tinto also completed the purchase of ten million shares in Ivanhoe, together with the rights 1.5 million shares associated with these shares from Citibank, in accordance with the announcement made on 15 December 2010, paying a total of US$274 million.
The transaction increased Rio Tintos ownership of Ivanhoe to 42.1 per cent.
On 10 February 2011, as part of its capital management programme, the Group announced a share buy back of US$5 billion which, subject to market conditions, is planned for completion by the end of 2012.
At 21 February 2011, 1.725 million Rio Tinto plc shares had been repurchased and held in treasury at an average price of 45.02 per share, resulting in total consideration paid of US$125.5 million.
No Rio Tinto Limited shares had been repurchased at 21 February 2011.
On 23 February 2011, Rio Tinto has received a binding offer from Imerys to acquire its talc business for an enterprise value of US$340 million.
A period of exclusivity with Imerys has been agreed, and Rio Tinto will respond to this binding offer following consultation with the relevant European works councils.
com 233 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 49 Share based payments Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited the Companies have a number of share based payment plans, which are described in detail in the Remuneration report.
These plans have been accounted for in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of IFRS 2 Share based Payment, which means that IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of employee share based payments that had not vested as at 1 January 2004.
The charge credit that has been recognised in the income statement for Rio Tintos share based compensation plans, and the related liability for cash-settled plans, is set out in the table below.
Charge credit recognised for the year Liability at the end of the year 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Equity-settled plans 119 76 61 a Cash-settled plans 5 101 83 5 111 Total 124 177 22 5 111 a From 1 July 2010, the accounting treatment for the Performance Share Plan formerly called the Mining Companies Comparative Plan changed from cash settled to equity settled.
This resulted in six months of expense being classified as cash-settled and the remaining six months as equity-settled.
For further detail, refer to the Performance Share Plan section in this note.
Effect of the 2009 rights issues All options and awards outstanding when the rights issues took place were adjusted to nullify any impact on the economic position of the participant at exercise.
For Rio Tinto plc options the fair values and exercise prices were reduced by the bonus element and the number of options and awards were increased by the same proportion.
For the Rio Tinto Limited awards, but not options, top-up awards were granted to increase the number held with a corresponding decrease in the associated fair value.
For Rio Tinto Limited options the exercise price was reduced so that their intrinsic value measured at June 2009 remained unchanged as a result of the rights issue.
Lattice-based option valuation model The fair value of share options is estimated as at the date of grant using a lattice-based option valuation model.
The significant assumptions used in the valuation model are disclosed below.
Expected volatilities are based on the historical volatility of Rio Tintos share returns under the UK and Australian listings.
Historical data was used to estimate employee forfeiture and cancellation rates within the valuation model.
Under the Share Option Plans, it is assumed that after options have vested, 20 per cent per annum of participants will exercise their options when the market price is at least 20 per cent above the exercise price of the option.
Participants in the Share Savings Plans are assumed to exercise their options immediately after vesting.
The implied lifetime of options granted is derived from the output of the option valuation model and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding.
The risk-free rate used in the valuation model is equal to the yield available on UK and Australian zero-coupon government bonds for Rio Tinto plc and Limited options respectively at the date of grant with a term equal to the expected term of the options.
Summary of options outstanding A summary of the status of the Companies equity-settled share option plans at 31 December 2010, and changes during the year ended 31 December 2010, is presented below.
Weighted Weighted Aggregate average average intrinsic exercise price remaining value per option contractual 2010 Options outstanding at 31 December 2010 Number A$ life Years US$m Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan 13 32 1,359,798 23.85 2.3 44 Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plan A$24 A$67 2,152,181 52.15 3.0 73 Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan 10 48 3,771,818 21.15 6.1 140 Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan A$16 A$119 1,397,053 43.86 6.2 60 8,680,850 317 As at 31 December 2009, there were 11,955,880 options outstanding with an aggregate intrinsic value of US$316 million.
234 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Weighted Weighted average Aggregate average remaining intrinsic exercise price contractual value per option life 2010 Options exercisable at 31 December 2010 Number A$ Years US$m Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan 10 23 1,757,255 14.83 3.5 82 Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan A$16 A$55 685,440 38.14 3.9 33 2,442,695 115 As at 31 December 2010, there were no options exercisable under either the Rio Tinto plc or the Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plans.
Share Savings Plans Awards under these plans are settled in equity and accounted for accordingly.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant was estimated using a lattice-based option valuation model, including allowance for the exercise price being at a discount to market price.
The key assumptions used in the valuation are noted in the following table.
Risk-free Expected Dividend Forfeiture Cancellation Implied a interest rate volatility yield rates rates lifetime % % % % % Years Awards made in 2010 Rio Tinto plc 0.8-2.0 46.0 1.9 5.0 5.0 2.2-5.2 Rio Tinto Limited 4.8-4.9 37.0 1.5 5.0 5.0 3.2-5.2 a In addition to the regular cancellation rates above it is assumed that on the anniversary of date of grant a proportion of employees will cancel their awards in favour of new awards if the then share price is less than the exercise price.
The proportion assumed is a sliding scale from 20 per cent cancelling if the then share price equals the exercise price to 100 per cent cancelling if the then share price is 75 per cent of the exercise price or less.
Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise price price 2010 2010 2009 2009 Number Number Options outstanding at 1 January 1,474,390 20.90 1,661,006 18.88 Granted 370,184 28.49 453,616 22.20 Forfeited on failure to meet service condition 73,396 19.57 57,375 20.32 Exercised 300,793 15.76 269,227 12.02 Cancellations 51,495 22.98 160,546 23.93 Expired 59,092 26.60 153,084 15.53 Options outstanding at 31 December 1,359,798 23.85 1,474,390 20.90 Weighted average fair value, at date of grant, of options granted during the year 10.76 9.27 Share price, at date of grant, of options granted during the year 36.97 29.72 Weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during the year 34.47 18.29 www.
com 235 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 49 Share based payments continued Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plan Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise price price 2010 2010 2009 2009 Number A$ Number A$ Options outstanding at 1 January 2,139,259 48.17 1,901,417 43.40 Granted 467,076 59.26 1,183,090 48.73 Forfeited on failure to meet service condition 67,913 55.43 95,677 51.17 Exercised 245,613 31.54 340,646 20.96 Cancellations 100,533 55.04 374,471 58.39 Expired 40,095 36.22 134,454 23.94 Options outstanding at 31 December 2,152,181 52.15 2,139,259 48.17 Weighted average fair value, at date of grant, of options granted during the year A$ 24.31 20.89 Share price, at date of grant, of options granted during the year A$ 78.08 64.68 Weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during the year A$ 71.79 46.43 Share Option Plans The Group has a policy of settling these awards in equity, although the directors at their discretion can offer a cash alternative.
The awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled, share based payment transactions.
The performance conditions in relation to Total Shareholder Return TSR have been incorporated in the measurement of fair value for these awards by modelling the correlation between Rio Tintos TSR and that of the index.
The relationship between Rio Tintos TSR and the index was simulated many thousands of times to derive a distribution which, in conjunction with the lattice-based option valuation model, was used to determine the fair value of the options.
The key assumptions are noted in the following table.
Risk-free Expected Dividend Forfeiture Implied interest rate volatility yield rates lifetime % % % % Years Awards made in 2010 Rio Tinto plc 2.9 46.0 2.0 5.2 Rio Tinto Limited 5.6 37.0 1.6 6.2 A summary of the status of the Companies performance-based share option plans at 31 December 2010, and changes during the year ended 31 December 2010, is presented below.
Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise price price 2010 2010 2009 2009 Number Number Options outstanding at 1 January 5,902,934 17.60 5,647,992 17.25 Granted 539,212 37.05 1,284,749 16.53 Forfeited on failure to meet service condition 46,253 17.37 112,917 17.30 Exercised 1,561,451 13.56 916,890 14.03 Failed performance conditions 854,883 22.56 Expired 207,741 13.72 Options outstanding at 31 December 3,771,818 21.15 5,902,934 17.60 Weighted average fair value, at date of grant, of options granted during the year 13.91 5.49 Weighted average share price, at date of grant, of options granted during the year 36.70 17.44 Weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during the year 36.94 26.89 In addition to the equity-settled options shown above, there were 52,925 cash-settled options outstanding at 31 December 2010.
The total liability for these awards at 31 December 2010 was US$2 million 2009: US$4 million.
236 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise price price 2010 2010 2009 2009 Number A$ Number A$ Options outstanding at 1 January 2,439,297 42.05 2,711,678 38.82 Granted 178,630 76.15 540,422 33.45 Forfeited on failure to meet service condition 25,140 37.66 43,559 40.24 Exercised 652,443 35.21 769,244 24.73 Failed performance conditions 497,884 59.01 Expired 45,407 35.17 Options outstanding at 31 December 1,397,053 43.86 2,439,297 42.04 Weighted average fair value, at date of grant, of options granted during the year A$ 26.97 13.35 Weighted average share price, at date of grant, for options granted during the year A$ 76.19 40.03 Weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during the year A$ 75.32 54.35 In addition to the equity-settled options shown above there were 19,915 cash-settled options outstanding at 31 December 2010.
The total liability for these awards at 31 December 2010 was US$1 million 2009: US$2 million.
Share Ownership Plan The fair values of awards of Matching and Free Shares made by Rio Tinto are taken to be the market value of the shares on the date of purchase.
These awards are settled in equity.
The total fair value of shares awarded during the year was US$2 million 2009: US$1 million.
Performance Share Plan formerly the Mining Companies Comparative Plan Prior to 2010, the Remuneration committee gave the Plans participants the option to receive their awards in cash or as shares.
This option resulted in the Plan being classified as a cash-settled share-based payment transaction and it was accounted for accordingly.
In 2010, the Groups policy for settling these awards changed.
For settlement of all future awards under this Plan, participants will be assigned shares with no option to receive a cash alternative.
As a result of this, and with effect from 1 July 2010, the Plan has been accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
As required by IFRS 2 the provision balance of US$57 million was transferred directly to equity with no impact on the income statement.
The change in settlement policy has been accounted for under IFRS 2 as a modification.
Accordingly, the fair values of the awards granted prior to this change were re-measured at 1 July 2010 and from that date treated as equity-settled awards.
The incremental fair value as a result of this modification was nil.
This re-measurement was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The fair value of awards granted after July 2010 are measured at date of grant.
For the purpose of the disclosures below, the grant date fair values of the awards made prior to 2008 were calculated as the market value of the shares at the date of award reduced by 50 per cent for anticipated relative TSR performance.
The grant date fair value of the awards made since 2008 were calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
In each case fair values were adjusted for non-receipt of dividends between measurement date and date of vesting excluding awards for executive directors and product group CEOs.
Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at three per cent per annum of outstanding awards except for the 2009 awards which applied to senior executives only with no allowance for forfeitures.
com 237 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 49 Share based payments continued Rio Tinto plc Performance Share Plan Weighted Weighted average average fair value fair value at grant at grant date date 2010 2010 2009 2009 Number Number Non-vested shares at 1 January 2,324,181 14.98 3,148,648 12.21 Reclassification of phantom awards 19,624 12.81 Awarded 1,127,414 36.35 191,887 13.56 Forfeited on failure to meet service condition 51,313 20.33 31,116 16.19 Failed performance conditions 416,765 7.49 145,215 5.81 Vested 488,544 7.41 840,023 5.81 Non-vested shares at 31 December 2,475,349 27.37 2,324,181 14.98 Weighted average share price at date of vesting 32.06 16.13 Total fair Total fair value value 2010 2010 2009 2009 Number 000 Number 000 Shares issued in settlement of vested awards 488,544 15,867 292,719 4,801 Total cash payments made in settlement of vested awards 9,236 In addition to the equity-settled options shown above there were 19,624 cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2010.
The total liability for these awards at 31 December 2010 was US$1 million.
Rio Tinto Limited Performance Share Plan Weighted Weighted average average fair value at fair value at grant date grant date 2010 2010 2009 2009 Number A$ Number A$ Non-vested shares at 1 January 1,515,643 31.97 2,162,867 26.97 Reclassification of phantom awards 9,563 28.28 Awarded 576,767 75.81 32,284 32.74 Forfeited on failure to meet service condition 156,918 37.49 36,541 35.13 Failed performance conditions 302,218 19.61 87,442 15.03 Vested 334,135 19.42 555,525 15.03 Non-vested shares at 31 December 1,289,576 57.09 1,515,643 31.97 Weighted average share price at date of vesting A$ 71.94 39.80 Total fair Total fair value value 2010 2010 2009 2009 Number A$000 Number A$000 Shares issued in settlement of vested awards 334,135 24,466 175,916 7,261 Total cash payments made in settlement of shares vested during the year 17,088 In addition to the equity-settled options shown above there were 9,563 cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2010.
The total liability for these awards at 31 December 2010 was less than US$1 million.
Management Share Plan The Management Share Plan was introduced during 2007 to provide conditional share based awards to management.
The vesting of these awards is dependent on service and or performance based conditions being met.
The awards will be settled in equity including the dividends accumulated from date of award to vesting.
The awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled share based payment transactions.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to share price on the day of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of dividends.
Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at five per cent per annum of outstanding awards.
238 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information A summary of the status of the Companies share plans at 31 December 2010, and changes during the year, is presented below.
Rio Tinto plc Management Share Plan Weighted Weighted average fair average fair value at value at grant grant date date 2010 2010 2009 2009 Number Number Non-vested awards at 1 January 2,131,808 24.00 862,850 36.89 Awarded 999,569 36.34 1,593,271 17.84 Forfeited on failure to meet service condition 202,063 25.36 196,816 25.77 Vested 423,163 25.20 127,497 31.50 Non-vested awards at 31 December 2,506,151 28.61 2,131,808 24.00 Weighted Weighted average average share share price price 2010 2010 2009 2009 Number Number Shares issued in respect of vested awards including dividend shares applied on vesting 374,609 34.69 127,497 22.77 In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above, there were 11,545 cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2010.
The total liability for these awards at 31 December 2010 was US$1 million 2009: US$6 million.
Rio Tinto Limited Management Share Plan Weighted Weighted average average fair value fair value at grant at grant date date 2010 2010 2009 2009 Number A$ Number A$ Non-vested awards at 1 January 1,090,803 59.06 511,643 84.06 Awarded 569,125 75.71 735,282 43.30 Forfeited on failure to meet service condition 67,484 60.72 119,565 65.25 Vested 248,325 67.38 36,557 71.77 Non-vested awards at 31 December 1,344,119 64.49 1,090,803 59.06 Weighted Weighted average average share price share price 2010 2010 2009 2009 Number A$ Number A$ Shares issued in respect of vested awards including dividend shares applied on vesting 282,117 73.59 36,557 50.42 In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above there were 2,056 cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2010.
The total liability for these awards at 31 December 2010 was less than US$1 million 2009: less than US$1 million.
Bonus Deferral Plan The Bonus Deferral Plan was introduced during 2009 and is made up of two parts: the Bonus Deferral Award and the Company Contributed Award.
The Bonus Deferral Award was established for the mandatory deferral of 100 per cent of the 2008 Bonus for executive directors and product group executives and 50 per cent of the 2008 Bonus for other executives.
In addition, in order to enhance retention of key employees the Company Contributed Award was made in respect of 25 per cent of the gross annual basic salary for other executives.
The vesting of these awards is dependent only on service conditions being met.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to share price on the day of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of dividends vesting.
Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at three per cent per annum of outstanding awards.
A summary of the status of the Companies share plans at 31 December 2010, and changes during the year, is presented on page 240. www.
com 239 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 49 Share based payments continued Rio Tinto plc Bonus Deferral Plan Weighted Weighted average fair average fair value at value at grant date grant date 2010 2010 2009 2009 Number Number Non-vested awards at 1 January 487,913 17.32 Awarded 536,149 17.32 Forfeited on failure to meet service condition 30,889 17.32 4,907 17.32 Vested 204,412 17.32 43,329 17.32 Non-vested awards at 31 December 252,612 17.32 487,913 17.32 Weighted Weighted average average share price share price 2010 2009 2010 2009 Number Number Shares issued in respect of vested awards including dividend shares applied on vesting 213,786 42.74 9,171 29.75 Rio Tinto Limited Bonus Deferral Plan Weighted Weighted average average fair value fair value at grant at grant date date 2010 2010 2009 2009 Number A$ Number A$ Non-vested awards at 1 January 251,939 41.75 Awarded 278,405 41.75 Forfeited on failure to meet service condition 12,210 41.75 13,460 41.75 Vested 108,304 41.75 13,006 41.75 Non-vested awards at 31 December 131,425 41.75 251,939 41.75 Weighted Weighted average average share price share price 2010 2010 2009 2009 Number A$ Number A$ Shares issued in respect of vested awards including dividend shares applied on vesting 109,512 86.37 9,714 53.13 240 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information 50 Post retirement benefits Description of plans The Group operates a number of pension and post retirement healthcare plans around the world.
Some of these plans are defined contribution and some are defined benefit, with assets held in separate trusts, foundations and similar entities.
Valuations of these plans are produced and updated annually to 31 December by qualified actuaries.
For plans that are within the perimeter of the Engineered Products business which was divested early in 2011, the asset and obligation amounts as at 31 December 2010 have been transferred to Assets and liabilities held for sale and are therefore excluded from the closing balances shown in this note.
The expense, cash flow and actuarial gains losses for these plans during 2010 are reflected in full in this note.
Pension plans The majority of the Groups pension obligations are in Canada, the UK, the US, Switzerland and the Eurozone.
There are some defined benefit obligations in Australia but the retirement arrangements there are predominantly defined contribution.
In general the Group has a policy of moving towards defined contribution provision.
There are a number of pension arrangements in the UK.
The defined benefit sections of these arrangements are linked to final pay and are closed to new members, with new employees being admitted to defined contribution sections.
During 2010, the UK Government announced changes to the index that must be used for increasing certain pensions.
This change automatically affects some benefits, and has resulted in actuarial gains of approximately US$35 million which are reflected in the figures disclosed below.
No amendments were made to plan rules in relation to this change.
In Australia, the main arrangements are principally defined contribution in nature but there are sections providing defined benefits linked to final pay, typically paid in lump sum form.
A number of defined benefit pension plans are sponsored by the US and Canadian entities.
The main plans are two Canadian plans for salaried and bargaining employees.
Benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final average pay, while benefits for bargaining employees are reviewed in negotiation with unions.
In Europe, there are defined benefit plans in Switzerland, the Netherlands, Germany and France.
The largest single plan is in Switzerland and provides benefits linked to final average pay.
The Group also operates a number of unfunded defined benefit plans, which are included in the figures below.
Post retirement healthcare plans Certain subsidiaries of the Group, mainly in the US and Canada, provide health and life insurance benefits to retired employees and in some cases to their beneficiaries and covered dependants.
Eligibility for cover is dependent upon certain age and service criteria.
These arrangements are generally unfunded, and are included in the figures below.
Plan assets The proportions of the total fair value of assets in the pension plans for each asset class at the statement of financial position date were: 2010 2009 Equities 53.6% 54.9% Bonds 34.8% 33.6% Property 7.1% 5.5% Other 4.5% 6.0% 100.0% 100.0% The assets of the plans are generally managed on a day-to-day basis by external specialist fund managers.
These managers may invest in the Groups securities subject to limits imposed by the relevant fiduciary committees and local legislation.
The approximate total holding of Group securities within the plans is US$24 million 2009: US$19 million.
com 241 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 50 Post retirement benefits continued Main assumptions rates per annum The main assumptions for the valuations of the plans under IAS 19 are set out below.
Information on the sensitivity of the results to the main assumptions is set out in the sensitivity section on page 245.
b The assumptions vary by location for the Other plans.
Assumptions shown are for Southern Africa.
c The inflation assumption shown for the UK is for the Retail Price Index.
The assumption for the Consumer Price Index at 31 December 2010 was 2.7 per cent.
The main financial assumptions used for the healthcare plans, which are predominantly in the US and Canada, were: discount rate: 5.3 per cent 2009: 6.0 per cent, medical trend rate: 7.4 per cent reducing to 4.9 per cent by the year 2017 broadly on a straight line basis 2009: 7.5 per cent, reducing to 5.1 per cent by the year 2015, claims costs based on individual company experience.
For both the pension and healthcare arrangements, the post retirement mortality assumptions allow for future improvements in longevity.
The mortality tables used imply that a man aged 60 at the statement of financial position date has a weighted average expected future lifetime of 24 years 2009: 24 years and that a man aged 60 in 2030 would have a weighted average expected future lifetime of 26 years 2009: 26 years.
242 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information The expected rate of return on pension plan assets is determined as managements best estimate of the long term returns of the major asset classes equities, bonds, property and other weighted by the allocation of assets among the categories at the measurement date.
The expected rates of return shown have been reduced to allow for plan expenses including, where appropriate, taxes incurred within pension plans on investment returns.
Based on the assumptions made and the distribution of assets the weighted average expected return on assets as at 1 January 2010 was 6.4 per cent 2009: 5.9 per cent and is expected to be 5.9 per cent as at 1 January 2011.
The sources used to determine managements best estimate of long term returns are numerous and include country-specific bond yields, which may be derived from the market using local bond indices or by analysis of the local bond market, and country-specific inflation and investment market expectations derived from market data and analysts or governments expectations as applicable.
Total expense recognised in the income statement 2010 2009 2008 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m US$m Current employer service cost for defined benefit plans 218 15 233 193 285 Interest cost 897 77 974 826 882 Expected return on assets 776 1 777 581 857 Past service cost 15 14 29 11 3 Gains on curtailment and settlement 69 42 111 124 5 Total defined benefit expense 285 63 348 325 308 Current employer service cost for defined contribution and industry-wide plans 224 1 225 199 194 Total expense recognised in the income statement 509 64 573 524 502 The above expense amounts are included as an employee cost within net operating costs.
In 2010, US$88 million pre-tax of curtailment and settlement gains relating to the sale of businesses have been excluded from Underlying earnings 2009: US$61 million, 2008: nil.
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income before tax 2010 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m Actuarial losses 719 919 1,666 Loss gain on currency translation on plans using US dollar functional currency 67 70 321 Gain on application of asset limit 19 26 a Total loss recognised in other comprehensive income 786 970 1,319 Cumulative amount recognised in Other comprehensive income at 31 December 2,586 1,800 830 a Actuarial loss includes US$4 million loss related to equity accounted units 2009: US$126 million loss: 2008: US$5 million loss.
Deficits surpluses in the plans The following amounts were measured in accordance with IAS 19 at 31 December: 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Pension Other Total Total Total Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total fair value of plan assets 13,144 13,144 12,407 9,306 14,350 4,656 Present value of obligations funded 15,499 8 15,507 15,148 11,044 14,822 4,472 Present value of obligations unfunded 892 1,110 2,002 2,385 1,784 2,089 597 Present value of obligations total 16,391 1,118 17,509 17,533 12,828 16,911 5,069 Unrecognised past service cost 9 6 3 7 12 2 3 Effect of asset limit 19 45 Aggregate deficit to be shown in the statement of financial position 3,238 1,124 4,362 5,133 3,553 2,608 410 Comprising: Deficits 3,348 1,124 4,472 5,150 3,713 3,313 770 Surpluses 110 110 17 160 705 360 Net deficits surpluses on pension plans 3,238 3,238 3,803 2,648 1,519 48 Unfunded post retirement healthcare obligation 1,124 1,124 1,330 905 1,089 458 The surplus amounts shown above are included in the statement of financial position as Trade and other receivables.
Deficits are shown in the statement of financial position as Post retirement benefits.
com 243 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 50 Post retirement benefits continued Contributions to plans Contributions to defined benefit pension plans during 2010 totalled US$1,036 million 2009: US$560 million: 2008: US$421 million.
The increase compared to 2009 results from a combination of special contributions as a result of the sale of the Packaging business and the acceleration of some contributions from 2011 into 2010.
Contributions of US$212 million 2009: US$190 million: 2008: US$184 million were made to defined contribution arrangements and US$12 million 2009: US$9 million: 2008: US$10 million to industry-wide plans: these are charged against profits and are included in the figures for defined contribution current employer service costs shown in the previous page.
Contributions for other benefits totalled US$79 million 2009: US$46 million: 2008: US$53 million.
Contributions to defined benefit pension plans for 2011 are estimated to be around US$375 million less than for 2010.
This is kept under regular review and actual contributions will be determined in line with the Groups wider financing strategy.
Healthcare plans are generally unfunded and contributions for future years will be equal to benefit payments and therefore cannot be predetermined.
Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation and in the fair value of assets The amounts shown below include, where appropriate, 100 per cent of the costs, contributions, gains and losses in respect of employees who participate in the plans and who are employed in operations that are proportionally consolidated or equity accounted.
Consequently, the costs, contributions, gains and losses may not correspond directly to the amounts disclosed above in respect of the Group.
Defined contribution plans and industry-wide plans are excluded from the movements below.
2010 2009 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in present value of obligation: Present value of obligation at start of the year 16,209 1,324 17,533 12,828 Current employer service cost 218 15 233 204 Interest cost 897 77 974 826 Contributions by plan participants 50 3 53 121 Experience gain loss 124 22 146 139 Changes in actuarial assumptions loss 1,088 119 1,207 1,671 Benefits paid 962 83 1,045 951 a Transfers to from Assets held for sale 808 311 1,119 1,656 Inclusion of arrangements 15 15 3 No longer consolidated 21 Past service cost 24 15 39 11 Curtailments 62 42 104 80 Settlements 428 428 181 Currency exchange rate loss 274 23 297 1,307 Present value of obligation at end of the year 16,391 1,118 17,509 17,533 Gains and losses on obligations 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Experience gains losses : ie variances between the estimate of obligations and the subsequent outcome 146 139 37 41 7 As a percentage of the present value of the year end obligations 1% 1% 0% 0% 0% Change in assumptions loss gain US$m 1,207 1,671 1,684 315 124 a In 2010, plans within the perimeter of the Engineered Products divestment have been transferred to Assets and liabilities held for sale.
In 2009, any plans sponsored by the Rio Tinto Alcan Packaging business that were not expected to be sold were transferred out of Assets held for sale and reflected in this note.
244 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information 2010 2009 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets at the start of the year 12,406 1 12,407 9,306 Expected return on plan assets 776 1 777 581 Actuarial gain on plan assets 346 346 891 Contributions by plan participants 50 3 53 121 Contributions by employer 1,038 78 1,116 627 Benefits paid 962 83 1,045 951 a Transfers to from Assets held for sale 401 401 882 Inclusion of arrangements 15 15 Refunds of contributions 27 Settlements 421 421 137 Currency exchange rate gain 297 297 1,114 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 13,144 13,144 12,407 Actual return on plan assets 1,123 1,472 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Difference between the expected and actual return on plan assets: Gain loss US$m 346 891 3,308 129 256 As a percentage of year end plan assets 3% 7% 36% 1% 5% a In 2010, plans within the perimeter of the Engineered Products divestment have been transferred to Assets and liabilities held for sale.
Sensitivity The values reported for the defined benefit pension obligations are sensitive to the actuarial assumptions used for projecting future benefit payments and discounting those payments.
The approximate sensitivities to the principal assumptions used to measure the obligations are: Approximate increase decrease in obligations Pensions Other Assumption Change in assumption US$m US$m Discount rate increase of 0.5 percentage points 1,012 64 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 1,081 68 Inflation increase of 0.5 percentage points 609 37 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 578 32 Salary increases increase of 0.5 percentage points 131 3 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 127 3 Demographic allowance for future improvements participants assumed to have the mortality rates in longevity of individuals who are one year older 390 19 participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year younger 390 19 Post retirement healthcare sensitivity to changes in assumptions An increase of one per cent in the assumed medical cost trend rates would increase the aggregate of the current service cost and interest cost components of the post retirement healthcare expense by US$7 million 2009: US$6 million: 2008: US$8 million, and increase the benefit obligation for these plans by US$72 million 2009: US$98 million: 2008: US$85 million.
A decrease of one per cent in the assumed medical cost trend rates would decrease the aggregate of the current service cost and interest cost components of the post retirement healthcare expense by US$6 million 2009: US$5 million: 2008: US$7 million, and decrease the benefit obligation for these plans by US$62 million 2009: US$83 million: 2008: US$75 million.
com 245 Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued a 51 Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures 2010 2009 As at 31 December A$m A$m Assets Current assets 7,642 11,384 Non-current assets 11,525 11,372 Total assets 19,167 22,756 Liabilities Current liabilities 2,852 1,903 Non-current liabilities 101 1,040 Total liabilities 2,953 2,943 Net assets 16,214 19,813 Shareholders equity Share capital 4,113 5,728 Available-for-sale investment revaluation reserve 1 Share based payments reserves 137 143 Capital reserves 536 536 Retained earnings 11,702 13,691 Total equity 16,214 19,813 Profit of the parent company 10,329 13,051 Total comprehensive income of the parent company 10,328 13,051 Contingent liabilities b Bank and other performance guarantees 15,149 10,596 a Prepared under Australian Accounting Standards AAS.
In relation to Rio Tinto Limited there are no significant measurement differences between AAS and EU IFRS.
b Bank and other performance guarantees relate principally to the obligations of subsidiary companies.
Pursuant to the DLC merger, both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited issued deed poll guarantees by which each company guaranteed contractual obligations incurred or guaranteed by the other.
These guarantees are excluded from the figures above.
