Shareholder information The Rio Tinto Group combines Rio Tinto plc, which is registered in meanings: definitions of these terms are in the Definitions section on England and Wales under company number 719885, and is listed pages 276 to 277.
The weights and measures used are mainly metric on the London Stock Exchange, and Rio Tinto Limited, which is units: conversions into other units are shown on page 274. registered in Australia under ABN 96 004 458 404, and is listed on History the Australian Securities Exchange.
Rio Tinto is headquartered in Rio Tintos predecessor companies were formed in 1873 and 1905.
London and has executive offices in Melbourne.
The Rio Tinto Company was formed by investors in 1873 to mine Rio Tinto plc adopted new Articles of Association by special ancient copper workings at Rio Tinto, near Seville in southern Spain.
resolution passed on 20 April 2009 which were amended further The Consolidated Zinc Corporation was incorporated in 1905 to treat by special resolution on 20 April 2009 effective 1 October 2009. zinc bearing mine waste at Broken Hill, New South Wales, Australia.
Rio Tinto Limited adopted a new Constitution by special resolution The RTZ Corporation formerly The Rio Tinto-Zinc Corporation was passed on 24 May 2000 and amended by special resolution on formed in 1962 by the merger of The Rio Tinto Company and The 18 April 2002, 29 April 2005, 27 April 2007, 24 April 2008 and Consolidated Zinc Corporation.
Further information on the Groups constitutional documents is set out in CRA Limited formerly Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited was pages 271 to 272. formed at the same time by a merger of the Australian interests of The Consolidated Zinc Corporation and The Rio Tinto Company.
Operational structure The Group consists of a number of wholly and partly owned Between 1962 and 1995, both RTZ and CRA discovered important subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies.
Rio Tintos mineral deposits, developed major mining projects and also grew management structure is designed to facilitate a clear focus on through acquisition.
business performance and is structured into five product groups RTZ and CRA were unified in 1995 through a dual listed companies and four global business support groups: structure.
This means that each Company has an identical board of Aluminium directors and the shareholders of both Companies are in substantially Copper the same position in terms of votes, dividends and capital returns Diamonds & Minerals as if they held shares in a single enterprise owning all the assets Energy of both Companies.
Iron Ore In 1997, the RTZ Corporation became Rio Tinto plc and CRA Limited Business Support & Operations which includes Exploration became Rio Tinto Limited, together known as the Rio Tinto Group.
Technology & Innovation Over the past decade, the Group has continued to invest in People & Organisation developments and acquisitions in keeping with its strategy.
Legal & External Affairs In 2007, Rio Tinto completed an agreed takeover of the Canadian The chief executive of each product group and the global head of aluminium producer Alcan Inc. in a US$38 billion transaction that each business support group are members of the Executive transformed the Groups aluminium product group into a global committee and report to the chief executive of Rio Tinto.
With copper and iron ore, this gave the Group a major role in the production of the three key metals associated with Nomenclature and financial data the growth and urbanisation of China and other developing countries.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited operate as one business organisation, referred to in this report as Rio Tinto, the Rio Tinto Dividends Group or, more simply, the Group.
These collective expressions are Both Companies have paid dividends on their shares every year since used for convenience only, since both Companies, and the individual incorporation in 1962.
The rights of Rio Tinto shareholders to receive companies in which they directly or indirectly own investments, are dividends are explained under the description of the Dual Listed separate and distinct legal entities.
Limited, plc, Pty, Inc, Limitada, L. L. C. A. S. or SA have Dividend policy generally been omitted from Group company names, except to The aim of Rio Tintos progressive dividend policy is to increase the distinguish between Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Financial US dollar value of ordinary dividends over time.
The rate of the total data in US dollars US$ is derived from, and should be read in annual dividend, in US dollars, is determined taking into account the conjunction with, the 2010 financial statements.
In general, financial results for the past year and the outlook.
Under Rio Tintos dividend data in pounds sterling and Australian dollars A$ have been policy, the interim dividend is set at one half of the total ordinary dividend translated from the consolidated financial statements and have been for the previous year and the final ordinary dividend is expected to be at provided solely for convenience: exceptions arise where data can be least equal to the previous interim dividend.
extracted directly from source records.
Certain key information has been provided in all three currencies in the 2010 financial statements.
Dividend determination The majority of the Groups sales are transacted in US dollars, Rio Tinto Group sales revenue, profit before finance items and tax, net making this the most reliable measure for the Groups global earnings and operating assets for 2009 and 2010 attributable to the business performance.
It is Rio Tintos main reporting currency product groups and geographical areas are shown in notes 31 and 32 and consequently the natural currency for dividend determination.
In the Performance section, operating Dividends determined in US dollars are translated at exchange rates assets and sales revenue for 2008 and 2009 are consistent with the prevailing two days prior to the announcement and are then declared financial information by business unit in the 2010 financial statements.
payable in sterling by Rio Tinto plc and in Australian dollars by The tables on pages 78 to 93 show production for 2008, 2009 and Rio Tinto Limited.
On request, shareholders of Rio Tinto plc can 2010 and include estimates of proven and probable ore reserves.
Words elect to receive dividends in Australian dollars and shareholders and phrases, often technical, have been used which have particular of Rio Tinto Limited can elect to receive dividends in sterling.
262 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information These dividend amounts are calculated by converting the declared Dividend reinvestment plan DRP dividend using currency exchange rates applicable five business days Rio Tinto offers a DRP to registered shareholders, which provides the prior to the dividend payment date.
opportunity to use cash dividends to purchase Rio Tinto shares in the market free of commission.
Due to local legislation the DRP cannot be Shareholders who wish to receive their dividends in any other extended to shareholders in the US, Canada and certain other countries.
currencies should contact the Companies share registrars, who also offer payment services in other currencies, subject to a fee.
Market listings and share prices 2010 dividends The prices of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs are available during the day on the Rio Tinto and other websites.
The 2010 interim and final dividends were determined at 45 US cents and at 63 US cents per share respectively and the applicable translation Rio Tinto plc rates for the interim and final dividend were US$1.59525 and The principal market for Rio Tinto plc shares is the London Stock US$1.60960 to the pound sterling and US$0.9133 and US$1.01715 to Exchange LSE, the shares trade through the Stock Exchange the Australian dollar respectively.
For those Rio Tinto plc shareholders Electronic Trading Service SETS system.
who elected to receive their interim dividend in Australian dollars the applicable conversion rate was A$1.69060 and for Rio Tinto Limited Central to the SETS system is the electronic order book on which shareholders who elected to receive their dividend in Sterling the an LSE member firm can post buy and sell orders, either on its own applicable conversion rate was 0.59151. behalf or for its clients.
Buy and sell orders are executed against each other automatically in strict price, then size, priority.
The order book Final dividends of 39.14 pence or 61.94 Australian cents per share operates from 8:00 am to 4:30 pm daily.
From 7:50 am to 8:00 am and 63 US cents per Rio Tinto plc ADR each representing one share orders may be added to, or deleted from the book, but execution does will be paid on 31 March 2011.
For those Rio Tinto plc shareholders not occur.
At 8:00 am the market opens by means of an uncrossing requesting the 2010 final dividend be paid in Australian dollars algorithm which calculates the greatest volume of trades on the book and those Rio Tinto Limited shareholders requesting the 2010 final which can be executed, then matches the orders, leaving unexecuted dividend be paid in pounds sterling, the applicable conversion rates orders on the book at the start of trading.
All orders placed on the order book are firm and are for standard three On 12 April 2010, Rio Tinto announced a ratio change for the day settlement.
While the order book is vital to all market participants, Rio Tinto plc American Depository Receipt ADR programme.
From orders are anonymous, with the counterparties being revealed to each 22 April 2010, the ADR record date, the ratio changed from one ADR other only after execution of the trade.
representing four ordinary shares to one ADR representing one ordinary share.
To effect this change, ADR holders received three Transactions in Rio Tinto plc shares are subject to the post-trade additional ADRs for every one ADR they held at the record date.
transparency rules and requirements imposed by the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID, as implemented by the UK The charts below set out the amounts of interim, final and special Financial Services Authority.
All transactions in equities that are cash dividends paid or payable on each share or ADR in respect of admitted to trading on a regulated market irrespective of whether each financial year, but before deduction of any withholding tax.
such transactions are concluded on a regulated market, a multilateral These have been restated for the impact of the 2009 rights issues trading facility an MTF, or by an investment firm trading outside a and the ADR ratio change.
regulated market or an MTF must be disclosed as close to real time as possible but no later than three minutes from completion, unless the 2008 2007 2006 transaction qualifies for deferred publication.
2010 2009 restated restated restated Rio Tinto Group US cents per share Rio Tinto plc shares are also listed on Euronext.
Interim 45.00 55.61 42.53 32.73 Rio Tinto plc has a sponsored ADR facility with JPMorgan Chase Final 63.00 45.00 55.61 68.70 52.34 Bank NA JPMorgan under a Deposit Agreement, dated 13 July 1988, Special as amended on 11 June 1990, as further amended and restated on Total 108.00 45.00 111.22 111.23 85.07 15 February 1999, 18 February 2005 when JPMorgan became Rio Tinto Rio Tinto plc UK pence per share plcs depository and on 29 April 2010.
The ADRs evidence Rio Tinto Interim 28.21 29.64 20.93 17.53 plc American Depositary Shares ADS, each representing one Final 39.14 28.84 37.85 35.27 26.69 ordinary share following a ratio change on 30 April 2010.
The Special shares are registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, are listed on the New York Stock Exchange Total 67.35 28.84 67.49 56.20 44.22 NYSE and are traded under the symbol RIO.
Rio Tinto plc changed Rio Tinto Limited Australian cents per share its NYSE ticker symbol on 12 October 2010 to align with the Interim 49.27 63.25 49.64 42.94 Companies ticker symbols on the London Stock Exchange and the Final 61.94 51.56 82.97 76.08 67.75 Australian Securities Exchange.
com 263 Shareholder information continued Fees and charges payable by a holder of ADSs In accordance with the terms of the Deposit Agreement, JPMorgan may charge holders of Rio Tinto ADSs, either directly or indirectly, fees or charges up to the amounts described below.
Category Depositary actions Associated fee Depositing or substituting the Issuance of ADSs against the deposit of shares, including deposits and issuance in US$5.00 per 100 ADSs or portion thereof underlying shares respect of: evidenced by the new ADSs delivered Share distributions, stock split, rights, merger Exchange of securities or other transactions Other events or distributions affecting the ADSs or the deposited securities Selling or exercising rights Distribution or sale of securities, the fee being in an amount equal to the fee for the US$5.00 for each 100 ADSs execution and delivery of ADSs which would have been charged as a result of the or portion thereof deposit of such securities Withdrawing an underlying share Acceptance of ADSs surrendered for withdrawal of deposited securities US$5.00 for each 100 ADSs or portion thereof evidenced by the ADSs surrendered Transferring, splitting or grouping receipts Transfers, combining or grouping of depositary receipts US$2.50 per ADS General depositary services, particularly Other services performed by the depositary in administering the ADRs Provide information about the depositarys those charged on an annual basis right, if any, to collect fees and charges by offsetting them against dividends received on deposited securities US$0.02 per ADS or portion thereof not more than once each calendar year and payable at the sole discretion of the depositary by billing holders or deducting such charge from one or more cash dividends or other cash distributions Expenses of the depositary Expenses incurred on behalf of holders in connection with: Expenses payable at the sole discretion of the depository by billing holders or by Compliance with foreign exchange control regulations or any law or regulation deducting charges from one or more cash relating to foreign investment dividends or other cash distributions The depositarys or its custodians compliance with applicable law, rule or regulation Stock transfer or other taxes and other governmental charges Cable, telex, facsimile and electronic transmission delivery Expenses of the depositary in connection with the conversion of foreign currency into US dollars which are paid out of such foreign currency Any other charge payable by depositary or its agents Fees and payments made by the depositary to the issuer As at 21 February 2011, there were 47,587 holders of record of Rio Tinto plcs shares.
Of these holders, 331 had registered addresses in JPMorgan has agreed to reimburse certain company expenses related the US and held a total of 326,262 Rio Tinto plc shares, representing to the Rio Tinto plc ADR programme and incurred by the Group in 0.02 per cent of the total number of Rio Tinto plc shares issued and connection with the programme.
For the year ended 31 December 2010, outstanding as at such date.
In addition, 95,340,352 Rio Tinto plc JPMorgan reimbursed US$2,050,000 in respect of expenses incurred by shares were registered in the name of a custodian account in London the Group in connection with the ADR programme.
JPMorgan did not which represented 6.24 per cent of Rio Tinto plc shares issued and pay any amount on the Groups behalf to third parties.
These shares were represented by 94,996,313 Rio Tinto plc waived certain of its standard fees and expenses associated with the ADRs held of record by 387 ADR holders.
In addition, certain accounts administration of the programme relating to routine programme of record with registered addresses other than in the US hold shares, in maintenance, reporting, distribution of cash dividends, annual whole or in part, beneficially for US persons.
meeting services and report mailing services.
ADR holders may instruct JPMorgan as to how the shares represented In the year ended 31 December 2009, JPMorgan did not reimburse by their ADRs should be voted.
Rio Tinto with any fees or expenses nor did JPMorgan pay any amount on the Groups behalf to third parties.
ADR holders can receive the Annual report free of charge on request.
Under certain circumstances, including removal of JPMorgan as depositary or termination of the ADR programme by the Company, the Company is required to repay JPMorgan any amounts of administrative fees and expenses waived during the 12 month period prior to notice of removal or termination.
264 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Rio Tinto is subject to the SEC reporting requirements for foreign of the total number of Rio Tinto Limited shares issued and outstanding companies.
A Form 20-F, which corresponds with the Form 10-K in US as of such date.
In addition, nominee accounts of record with registered public companies, will be filed with the SEC.
Rio Tintos Form 20-F and addresses other than in the US may hold Rio Tinto Limited shares, in other filings can be viewed on the Rio Tinto website as well as the SEC whole or in part, beneficially for US persons.
ADR holders may also read without charge Investment warning and copy at prescribed rates any document filed at the public reference The following table shows share prices for the period indicated, the facilities of the SECs principal office at 100 F Street NE, Washington, reported high and low middle market quotations, which represent an DC 20549, US.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further average of bid and asked prices, for Rio Tinto plcs shares on the LSE information on the operation of the public reference facilities.
based on the LSE Daily Official List, the highest and lowest sale prices Rio Tinto Limited of the Rio Tinto plc ADRs as reported on the NYSE composite tape and Rio Tinto Limited shares are listed on the Australian Securities the high and low closing sale prices of Rio Tinto Limited shares based Exchange ASX.
The ASX is the principal trading market for upon information provided by the ASX.
There is no established Rio Tinto Limited shares.
The ASX is a national stock exchange trading market in the US for Rio Tinto Limiteds shares.
with an automated trading system.
Past performance of shares is not necessarily a guide to future As at 21 February 2011, there were 192,956 holders of record of performance.
The value of shares and investments and the income Rio Tinto Limited shares.
Of these holders, 325 had registered derived from them can go down as well as up, and investors may not addresses in the US, representing approximately 0.039 per cent get back the amount they invested.
With effect from 30 April 2010, one ADR represents one ordinary share of 10p in Rio Tinto plc.
Prior to this date one ADR represented four ordinary shares.
To effect this change ADR holders received three additional ADRs for every one ADR held as of 22 April 2010, the ADR record date.
Prior year comparatives have been restated for the impact of the ratio change.
b None of these prices have been restated to take account of the rights issues undertaken in 2009. www.
com 265 Shareholder information continued entitled to a rebate of tax equal to the franking credit amount Taxation included in their income.
Should the franking credits exceed UK resident individuals shareholdings in Rio Tinto plc the tax due, the excess is refunded to the resident individual.
Taxation of dividends The effect of the dividend imputation system on non resident Final dividend 2009 payment date 1 April 2010 shareholders is that, to the extent that the dividend is franked, Dividends carry a tax credit equal to one ninth of the dividend.
no Australian tax will be payable and there is an exemption from Individuals who are liable to income tax at the basic rate will dividend withholding tax.
have no further tax to pay.
Higher rate tax payers are liable to tax A withholding tax is normally levied at the rate of 15 per cent when on UK dividends at 32.5 per cent, which after taking account of the unfranked dividends are paid to residents of countries with which tax credit, produces an effective tax liability of 25 per cent of the Australia has a taxation treaty.
Most Western countries have a dividend received.
A rate of 30 per cent applies to Interim Dividend 2010 payment date 9 September 2010 countries where there is no taxation treaty.
The position for basic rate tax payers and higher rate tax payers is Since 1988, all dividends paid by Rio Tinto Limited have been as described above.
However, as of 6 April 2010, additional rate tax fully franked.
It is the Groups policy to pay fully franked dividends payers are liable to tax on UK dividends at 42.5 per cent, which after whenever possible.
The boards expect Rio Tinto Limited to be able taking account of the tax credit, produces an effective tax liability of to pay fully franked dividends for the foreseeable future.
26.1 per cent of the dividend received.
Dividend reinvestment plan DRP Dividend reinvestment plan DRP Shareholders will generally be liable for tax on dividends reinvested The taxation effect of participation in the DRP will depend on in the DRP on the same basis as if they had received the cash and individual circumstances.
Shareholders will generally be liable to arranged the investment.
The dividend should therefore be included tax on dividends reinvested in the DRP on the same basis as if they in the annual tax return as assessable income.
had received the cash and arranged the investment.
The dividend should, therefore, be included in the annual tax return.
The shares acquired should be added to the shareholding at the date of acquisition at the actual cost of the shares, which is the amount of The shares acquired should be added to shareholdings at the date the dividend applied by the shareholder to acquire shares and any and at the net cost shown on the share purchase advice.
The actual incidental costs associated with the acquisition will form part of the cost cost of the shares for Rio Tinto plc shareholders including the stamp base or reduced cost base of the shares for capital gains tax purposes.
duty stamp duty reserve tax, will form the base cost for capital gains tax purposes.
Capital gains tax The Australian capital gains tax legislation is complex.
If shareholders Capital gains tax have acquired shares after 19 September 1985 they may be subject to Shareholders who have any queries on capital gains tax issues are capital gains tax on the disposal of those shares.
advised to consult their financial adviser.
Generally, disposal of shares held on capital account would give rise Details of relevant events since 31 March 1982 and adjusted values to a capital gain or loss.
A capital gain arises when the proceeds on for Rio Tinto plc securities as at that date are available from the disposal are greater than the cost base of shares.
A capital loss arises company secretary.
when the proceeds on sale are less than the cost base or reduced cost base.
Where a capital gain arises on shares held for at least 12 Australian resident individuals shareholdings in months, individual, trust and superannuation fund shareholders may Rio Tinto Limited be eligible for a capital gains tax discount.
Taxation of dividends The basis of the Australian dividend imputation system is that when Shareholders are advised to seek the advice of an independent Australian resident shareholders receive dividends from Rio Tinto taxation consultant on any possible capital gains tax exposure.
Limited, they may be entitled to a credit for the Australian tax paid by US residents the Group in respect of that income, depending on the tax status of The following is a summary of the principal UK tax, Australian the shareholder.
tax and US Federal income tax consequences of the ownership The application of the system results in the Australian tax paid by of Rio Tinto plc ADSs, Rio Tinto plc shares and Rio Tinto Limited the Group being allocated to shareholders by way of franking credits shares, the Groups DSs and shares by a US holder as defined below.
attaching to the dividends they receive.
Such dividends are known It is not intended to be a comprehensive description of all the tax as franked dividends.
A dividend may be partly or fully franked.
The considerations that are relevant to all classes of taxpayer.
Future current Rio Tinto Limited dividend is fully franked and the franking changes in legislation may affect the tax consequences of the credits attached to the dividend are shown in the distribution ownership of the Groups ADSs and shares.
It is based in part on representations by the Groups depositary bank The extent to which a company can frank a dividend depends on as depositary for the ADRs evidencing the ADSs and assumes that the credit balance in its franking account.
Credits to this account each obligation in the deposit agreements will be performed in can arise in a number of ways, including when a company pays accordance with its terms.
company tax or receives a franked dividend from another company.
The dividend is required to be included in a resident individual You are a US holder if you are a beneficial owner of the Groups ADSs shareholders assessable income.
In addition, an amount equal to the and shares and you are: a citizen or resident of the US, a domestic franking credit attached to the franked dividend is also included in corporation, an estate whose income is subject to US federal income the assessable income of the resident individual, who may then be tax regardless of its source, or a trust if a US court can exercise primary 266 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information supervision over the trusts administration and one or more US persons ADSs will be subject to additional SDRT at a rate of 1.5 per cent on are authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
all transfers to the depositary or its nominee.
This section applies to US holders only if shares or ADSs are held Australian taxation of shareholdings in Rio Tinto Limited as capital assets for tax purposes.
This section does not apply to Taxation of dividends shareholders who are members of a special class of holders subject US holders are not normally liable to Australian withholding tax to special rules, including a dealer in securities, a trader in securities on dividends paid by Rio Tinto Limited because such dividends are who elects to use a mark-to-market method of accounting for normally fully franked under the Australian dividend imputation securities holdings, a tax exempt organisation, a life insurance system, meaning that they are paid out of income that has borne company, a person liable for alternative minimum tax, a person that Australian income tax.
Any unfranked dividends would suffer actually or constructively owns ten per cent or more of Rio Tintos Australian withholding tax which under the Australian income voting stock, a person that holds shares or ADSs as part of a straddle tax convention is limited to 15 per cent of the gross dividend.
or a hedging or conversion transaction, or a person whose functional Capital gains currency is not the US dollar.
US holders are not normally subject to any Australian tax on the This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as disposal of Rio Tinto Limited ADSs or shares unless they have been amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations, used in carrying on a trade or business wholly or partly through a published rulings and court decisions, and on the convention permanent establishment in Australia, or the gain is in the nature between the US and UK, and the convention between the US and of income sourced in Australia.
Australia which may affect the tax consequences of the ownership Gift, estate and inheritance tax of the Groups ADSs and shares.
These laws and conventions are Australia does not impose any gift, estate or inheritance taxes subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
in relation to gifts of shares or upon the death of a shareholder.
For the purposes of the Conventions and of the US Internal Revenue Stamp duty Code of 1986, as amended the Code, US holders of ADSs are treated An issue or transfer of Rio Tinto Limited shares does not require as the owners of the underlying shares.
the payment of Australian stamp duty.
The summary describes the treatment applicable under the US federal income tax conventions in force at the date of this report.
In general, taking into account the earlier assumptions that each UK taxation of shareholdings in Rio Tinto plc obligation of the Deposit Agreement and any related agreement Taxation of dividends will be performed according to its terms, for US federal income tax US holders are not liable to UK withholding tax on dividends paid by purposes, if you hold ADRs evidencing ADSs, you will be treated as Rio Tinto plc.
Dividends carry a tax credit equal to one ninth of the the owner of the shares represented by those ADRs.
Exchanges of net dividend, or ten per cent of the net dividend plus the tax credit.
shares for ADRs, and ADRs for shares, generally will not be subject The tax credit is not repayable to US holders.
Capital gains Taxation of dividends A US holder will not normally be liable to UK tax on capital gains Under the US federal income tax laws, and subject to the passive foreign realised on the disposition of Rio Tinto plc ADSs or shares unless the investment company, or PFIC, rules discussed below, if you are a US holder carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a holder, the gross amount of any dividend the Group pays out of its permanent establishment in the UK and the ADSs or shares have been current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US used for the purposes of the trade, profession or vocation or are acquired, federal income tax purposes is subject to US federal income taxation.
held or used for the purposes of such a permanent establishment.
If you are a non corporate US holder, dividends paid to you in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 that constitute qualified dividend Inheritance tax income will be taxable to you at a maximum tax rate of 15 per cent Under the UK Estate Tax Treaty, a US holder, who is domiciled in the US provided that, in the case of shares or ADSs, you hold the shares or ADSs and is not a national of the UK, will not be subject to UK inheritance tax for more than 60 days during the 121 day period beginning 60 days upon the holders death or on a transfer during the holders lifetime before the ex-dividend date.
Dividends we pay with respect to the unless the ADSs and shares form part of the business property of a shares or ADSs will generally be qualified dividend income.
permanent establishment in the UK or pertain to a fixed base situated in the UK used in the performance of independent personal services.
You must include any Australian tax withheld from the dividend In the exceptional case where ADSs or shares are subject both to UK payment in this gross amount even though you do not in fact receive inheritance tax and to US Federal gift or estate tax, the UK Estate it.
The dividend is taxable to you when you, in the case of shares, or Tax Treaty generally provides for tax payments to be relieved in the depositary, in the case of ADSs, receive the dividend, actually or accordance with the priority rules set out in the Treaty.
The dividend will not be eligible for the dividendsreceived deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax of dividends received from other US corporations.
The amount of the Transfers of Rio Tinto plc ADSs will not be subject to UK stamp duty dividend distribution that you must include in your income as a provided that the transfer instrument is not executed in, and at all US holder will be the US dollar value of the non US dollar payments times remains outside, the UK.
made, determined at the spot UK pound US dollar rate in the case of Rio Tinto plc or the spot Australian dollar US dollar in the case of Purchases of Rio Tinto plc shares are subject either to stamp duty at a Rio Tinto Limited on the date the dividend distribution is includible rate of 50 pence per 100 or to stamp duty reserve tax SDRT at a rate in your income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact of 0.5 per cent.
Conversions of Rio Tinto plc shares into Rio Tinto plc www.
com 267 Shareholder information continued converted into US dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from Association or under UK law that limit the right of non resident currency exchange fluctuations during the period from the date you owners to hold or vote Rio Tinto plc shares.
include the dividend payment in income to the date you convert the Rio Tinto Limited payment into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss and Under current Australian legislation, the Reserve Bank of Australia will not be eligible for the special tax rate applicable to qualified does not restrict the import and export of funds and no permission dividend income.
The gain or loss generally will be income or loss is required for the movement of funds into or out of Australia, except from sources within the US for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
that restrictions apply to certain financial transactions relating to Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and specified individuals and entities associated with certain regimes.
profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade has responsibility for treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of your basis the administration of restrictions relating to terrorists and their in the shares or ADSs and thereafter as capital gain.
sponsors, and the former Iraqi regime.
Subject to certain limitations, any Australian tax withheld in Rio Tinto Limited may be required to deduct withholding tax from accordance with the Australia-United States Tax Treaty and paid foreign remittances of dividends, to the extent that they are unfranked, over to Australia will be creditable or deductible against your US and from payments of interest.
There are no restrictions under the federal income tax liability.
Special rules apply in determining Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited that limit the right of non residents the foreign tax credit limitation with respect to dividends that to hold or vote Rio Tinto Limited shares.
are subject to the maximum 15 per cent tax rate.
However acquisitions of interests in shares, voting power or For foreign tax credit purposes, dividends will generally be certain other equity instruments in Australian companies by foreign income from sources outside the US and will, depending on your interests are subject to review and approval by the Treasurer of the circumstances, generally be either passive or general income Commonwealth of Australia under the Foreign Acquisitions and which, in either case, is treated separately from other types of income Takeovers Act 1975 the Takeovers Act.
The Takeovers Act applies for purposes of computing the foreign tax credit allowable to you.
to any acquisition of 15 per cent or more of the outstanding shares Taxation of capital gains of, or voting power in, an Australian company or to any transaction Subject to the PFIC rules discussed below, if you are a US holder and that results in one non resident, or a group of associated non you sell or otherwise dispose of the Groups ADSs or shares, you will residents, controlling 15 per cent or more of the shares of or voting recognise capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes power in, an Australian company.
The Takeovers Act also applies equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount to any transaction which results in a group of non associated non that you realise and your tax basis, determined in US dollars, in your residents controlling 40 per cent or more of the shares of, or voting shares or ADSs.
Capital gain of a non corporate US holder is generally power in, an Australian company.
Persons who are proposing such taxed at preferential rates where the holder has a holding period acquisitions or transactions are required to notify the Treasurer of greater than one year.
The gain or loss will generally be income or loss their intention.
The Treasurer has the power to order divestment in from sources within the US for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
cases where such acquisitions or transactions have already occurred.
The Takeovers Act does not affect the rights of owners whose Passive Foreign Investment Company PFIC Rules interests are held in compliance with the legislation.
We believe that the Groups shares or ADSs should not be treated as stock of PFIC for US federal income tax purposes, but this conclusion Material contracts is a factual determination that is made annually and thus may be Dual listed companies structure subject to change.
If we were to be treated as a PFIC, unless the shares In 1995, Rio Tinto shareholders approved the terms of the dual listed or ADSs are marketable stock and a US holder elects to be taxed companies merger the DLC merger which was designed to place the annually on a mark-to-market basis with respect to the shares or shareholders of both Companies in substantially the same position ADSs, gain realised on the sale or other disposition of the shares or as if they held shares in a single enterprise owning all of the assets ADSs would in general not be treated as capital gain.
Instead, if you of both Companies.
As a condition of its approval of the DLC merger, are a US holder, you would be treated as if you had realised such gain the Australian Government required Rio Tinto plc to reduce its and certain excess distributions rateably over your holding period shareholding in Rio Tinto Limited to 39 per cent by the end of 2005. for the shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in Consistent with the commitments made to the Australian effect for each such year to which the gain was allocated, together Government in 1995, the Rio Tinto plc shareholding in Rio Tinto with an interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each Limited has been reduced over time.
Following the completion in such year.
In addition, dividends that you receive from us will not September 2010 of the buy-back of shares held by Tinto Holdings be eligible for the special tax rates applicable to qualified dividend Australia Pty Limited, Rio Tinto plcs interest in the ordinary shares income if we are a PFIC either in the taxable year of the distribution of Rio Tinto Limited has reduced to nil.
or the preceding taxable year, but instead will be taxable at rates applicable to ordinary income.
Following the approval of the DLC merger, both Companies entered into a DLC Merger Sharing Agreement the Sharing Agreement through Exchange controls and foreign investment which each Company agreed to ensure that the businesses of Rio Rio Tinto plc Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are managed on a unified basis, to There are no UK foreign exchange controls or other restrictions on the ensure that the boards of directors of each Company are the same, import or export of capital or on the payment of dividends to non and to give effect to certain arrangements designed to provide resident holders of Rio Tinto plc shares or that affect the conduct of shareholders of each Company with a common economic interest Rio Tinto plcs operations.
The Bank of England, however, administers in the combined enterprise.
financial sanctions against specified targets related to certain regimes.
There are no restrictions under Rio Tinto plcs Articles of 268 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information In order to achieve this third objective, the Sharing Agreement Voting rights provided for the ratio of dividend, voting and capital distribution In principle, the Sharing Agreement provides for the public rights attached to each Rio Tinto plc share and to each Rio Tinto shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited to vote as a joint Limited share to be fixed in an Equalisation Ratio which has electorate on all matters which affect shareholders of both Companies remained unchanged at 1:1.
The Sharing Agreement has provided for in similar ways.
These are referred to as Joint Decisions.
Such Joint this ratio to be revised in special circumstances where, for example, Decisions include the creation of new classes of share capital, the certain modifications are made to the share capital of one Company, appointment or removal of directors and auditors and the receiving such as rights issues, bonus issues, share splits and share of annual financial statements.
Joint Decisions are voted on a poll.
consolidations, but not to the share capital of the other.
Outside these The Sharing Agreement also provides for the protection of the public specified circumstances, the Equalisation Ratio can only be altered shareholders of each Company by treating the shares issued by each with the approval of shareholders under the Class Rights Action Company as if they were separate classes of shares issued by a single approval procedure described under Voting rights.
So decisions that do not affect the shareholders of both adjustments are required to be confirmed by the auditors.
Companies equally require the separate approval of the shareholders One consequence of the DLC merger is that Rio Tinto is subject of both Companies.
Matters requiring this approval procedure are to a wide range of laws, rules and regulatory review across multiple referred to as Class Rights Actions and are voted on a poll.
Where these rules differ Rio Tinto, as a Group, aims Thus, the interests of the shareholders of each Company are to comply with the strictest applicable level.
protected against decisions which affect them and the shareholders Consistent with the creation of a single combined enterprise under in the other Company differently, by requiring their separate the DLC merger, directors of each Company act in the best interests approval.
For example, fundamental elements of the DLC merger of Rio Tinto as a whole.
The Class Rights Action approval procedure cannot be changed unless approved by shareholders under the Class is intended to deal with instances where there may be a conflict of Rights Action approval procedure.
interest between the shareholders of each Company.
Exceptions to these principles can arise in situations such as where To ensure that the boards of both Companies are identical, legislation requires the separate approval of a decision by the appropriate resolutions to appoint or remove directors must be put to majority of shareholders in one Company and where approval of the shareholders of both as a joint electorate as Joint Decisions as matter by shareholders of the other Company is not required.
described under Voting rights, and it is a requirement that a person Where a matter has been expressly categorised as either a Joint can only be a director of one Company if that person is also a director Decision or a Class Rights Action, the directors do not have the power of the other Company.
So, for example, if a person was removed as a to change that categorisation.
If a matter falls within both categories, director of Rio Tinto plc, he or she would also cease to be a director of it is treated as a Class Rights Action.
In addition, the directors can Rio Tinto Limited.
determine that matters not expressly listed in either category should Dividend rights be put to shareholders for their approval under either procedure.
The Sharing Agreement provides for dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc To facilitate the joint voting arrangements each Company has and Rio Tinto Limited shares to be equalised on a net cash basis, that entered into shareholder voting agreements.
Each Company has is without taking into account any associated tax credits.
Dividends issued a Special Voting Share to a special purpose company held are determined in US dollars and are then, except for ADR holders, in trust by a common Trustee.
translated and paid in sterling and Australian dollars.
The Companies are also required to announce and pay their dividends and other Rio Tinto plc has issued its Special Voting Share RTP Special Voting distributions as close in time to each other as possible.
Share to RTL Shareholder SVC and Rio Tinto Limited has issued its Special Voting Share RTL Special Voting Share to RTP Shareholder In the unlikely event that one Company did not have sufficient SVC.
The total number of votes cast on Joint Decisions by the public distributable reserves to pay the equalised dividend or the equalised shareholders of one Company are voted at the parallel meeting of the capital distribution, it would be entitled to receive a top up payment from other Company.
The role of these special purpose companies in the other Company.
The top up payment could be made as a dividend on achieving this is described below.
the DLC Dividend Share, or by way of a contractual payment.
In exceptional circumstances, certain public shareholders of the If the payment of an equalised dividend would contravene the law Companies can be excluded from voting at the respective Companys applicable to one of the Companies, then they may depart from the general meetings because they have acquired shares in one Company Equalisation Ratio.
However, should such a departure occur, then the in excess of a given threshold without making an offer for all the relevant Company will put aside reserves to be held for payment on shares in the other Company.
If this should occur, the votes cast by the relevant shares at a later date.
these excluded shareholders will be disregarded.
Rio Tinto shareholders have no direct rights to enforce the dividend Following the Companies general meetings the overall results of equalisation provisions of the Sharing Agreement.
the voting on Joint Decisions and the results of voting on Class Rights The DLC Dividend Shares can also be utilised to provide the Group with Actions and on separate decisions will be announced to the stock flexibility for internal funds management by allowing dividends to be exchanges, published on the Rio Tinto website and announced to the paid between the two parts of the Group.
Such dividend payments are media in the UK and Australia.
of no economic significance to the shareholders of either Company, as they will have no effect on the Groups overall resources.
com 269 Shareholder information continued At a Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting at which a Joint Decision sets of shareholders, that these laws and regulations should operate will be considered, each Rio Tinto plc share will carry one vote and in this way.
The Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc and the the holder of its Special Voting Share will have one vote for each vote constitution of Rio Tinto Limited impose restrictions on any person cast by the public shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited.
The holder of the who controls, directly or indirectly, 20 per cent or more of the votes Special Voting Share is required to vote strictly and only in accordance on a Joint Decision.
If, however, such a person only has an interest in with the votes cast by public shareholders for and against the equivalent either Rio Tinto Limited or Rio Tinto plc, then the restrictions will resolution at the parallel Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting.
only apply if they control, directly or indirectly, 30 per cent or more of the votes at that Companys general meetings.
The holders of Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares do not actually hold any voting shares in Rio Tinto plc by virtue of their holding If one of the thresholds specified above is breached then, subject to in Rio Tinto Limited and cannot enforce the voting arrangements certain limited exceptions and notification by the relevant Company, relating to the Special Voting Share.
such persons may not attend or vote at general meetings of the relevant Company, may not receive dividends or other distributions At a Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting at which a Joint from the relevant Company, and may be divested of their interest Decision will be considered, each Rio Tinto Limited share will carry by the directors of the relevant Company.
These restrictions will one vote and the holder of its Special Voting Share will carry one vote continue to apply until such persons have either made a public offer for each vote cast by the public shareholders of Rio Tinto plc in their for all of the publicly held shares of the other Company, or have parallel meeting.
The holder of the Special Voting Share is required reduced their controlling interest below the thresholds specified, or to vote strictly, and only, in accordance with the votes cast for and have acquired through a permitted means at least 50 per cent of the against the equivalent resolution at the parallel Rio Tinto plc publicly held shares of each Company.
These provisions are designed to ensure that offers for the publicly held The holders of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares do not actually hold shares of both Companies would be required to avoid the restrictions any voting shares in Rio Tinto Limited by virtue of their holding in set out above, even if the interests which breach the thresholds are only Rio Tinto plc and cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating held in one of the Companies.
The directors do not have the discretion to the Special Voting Share.
to exempt a person from the operation of these rules.
Capital distribution rights Under the Sharing Agreement, the Companies agree to cooperate If either of the Companies goes into liquidation, the Sharing to enforce the restrictions contained in their Articles of Association Agreement provides for a valuation to be made of the surplus assets and Constitution.
If the surplus assets available for distribution by one Company on each of the shares held by its public shareholders Guarantees exceed the surplus assets available for distribution by the other In 1995, each Company entered into a Deed Poll Guarantee in favour Company on each of the shares held by its public shareholders, of creditors of the other Company.
Pursuant to the Deed Poll then an equalising payment between the two Companies shall Guarantees, each Company guaranteed the contractual obligations be made, to the extent permitted by applicable law, such that the of the other Company and the obligations of other persons which amount available for distribution on each share held by public are guaranteed by the other Company, subject to certain limited shareholders of each Company conforms to the Equalisation Ratio.
Beneficiaries under the Deed Poll Guarantees may make The objective is to ensure that the public shareholders of both demands upon the guarantor thereunder without first having recourse Companies have equivalent rights to the assets of the combined to the Company or persons whose obligations are being guaranteed.
Group on a per share basis, taking account of the Equalisation Ratio.
The obligations of the guarantor under each Deed Poll Guarantee expire upon termination of the Sharing Agreement and under other The Sharing Agreement does not grant any enforceable rights to limited circumstances, but only in respect of obligations arising after the shareholders of either Company upon liquidation of a Company.
such termination and, in the case of other limited circumstances, Limitations on ownership of shares and merger obligations the publication and expiry of due notice.
The shareholders of the The laws and regulations of the UK and Australia impose restrictions Companies cannot enforce the provision of the Deed Poll Guarantees.
and obligations on persons who control interests in public quoted Facility agreement companies in excess of defined thresholds that, under certain circumstances, include obligations to make a public offer for all Rio Tinto Finance plc and Rio Tinto Finance Limited entered of the outstanding issued shares of the relevant company.
The into a facility agreement on 12 November 2010 as borrowers with threshold applicable to Rio Tinto plc under UK law and regulations a syndicate of banks.
The facility is guaranteed by Rio Tinto plc and is 30 per cent and to Rio Tinto Limited under Australian law and Rio Tinto Limited.
The facility comprises a US$6 billion multi-currency regulations is 20 per cent on a stand alone basis or, taking into five year revolving credit facility including a US$ denominated same account only Rio Tinto plc interests, on a Joint Decision basis.
The funds made available under the Facility Agreement may be used for the general corporate purposes As part of the DLC merger, the Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc of the Group.
and the Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited were amended with the intention of extending these laws and regulations to the combined Advances under the revolving facility bear an interest rate per annum enterprise and, in particular, to ensure that a person cannot exercise equal to the margin which is dependent on the Groups long term control over one Company without having made offers to the public credit rating as determined by Moodys and Standard & Poors and the shareholders of both Companies.
It is consistent with the creation of level of drawdown plus LIBOR or EURIBOR in relation to any euro the single economic enterprise, and the equal treatment of the two loan plus any mandatory cost.
270 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information The Facility Agreement contains no financial covenants.
concern another body corporate in which the director is beneficially interested in less than one per cent of the issued At 31 December 2010, the facility was undrawn.
Further details shares of any class of shares of such a body corporate: of the Groups credit facilities are set out in note 22 of the 2010 relate to an employee benefit in which the director will share financial statements.
equally with other employees: and Articles of Association and Constitution relate to liability insurance that the Company is empowered to As explained on pages 268 to 269 under the terms of the DLC merger purchase for the benefit of directors of the Company in respect the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and of Rio Tinto Limited entered of actions undertaken as directors or officers of the Company.
into certain contractual arrangements which are designed to place the shareholders of both Companies in substantially the same position Under Rio Tinto Limiteds Constitution, except where a director is as if they held shares in a single enterprise which owned all of the constrained by Australian law, a director may be present at a meeting of assets of both Companies.
Generally and as far as is permitted by the board while a matter in which the director has a material personal the UK Companies Act and the Australian Corporations Act and ASX interest is being considered and may vote in respect of that matter.
Listing Rules this principle is reflected in the Articles of Association The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the of Rio Tinto plc and in the Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited.
Unless Companies to borrow money, to charge any property or business stated otherwise the Articles of Association and Constitution are of the Companies or all or any of their uncalled capital and to issue identical.
The summaries below include descriptions of material debentures or give any other security for a debt, liability or obligation rights of the shareholders of both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
of the Companies or of any other person.
The directors shall restrict No holder of shares, which may be held in either certificated or the borrowings of Rio Tinto plc to the limitation that the aggregate uncertificated form, will be required to make any additional amount of all moneys borrowed by the Company and its subsidiaries contributions of capital.
shall not exceed an amount equal to one and one half times the Companys share capital plus aggregate reserves unless sanctioned Objects by an ordinary resolution of the Company.
The objects of Rio Tinto plc were previously set out in the fourth Directors are not required to hold any shares of either Company by clause of its Memorandum of Association and the objects of Rio Tinto way of qualification, but a director is nevertheless entitled to attend Limited were set out in the second clause of its Memorandum of and speak at shareholders meetings.
Nevertheless, as disclosed in the Association.
Included in these objects was the right for each Company Remuneration report on pages 128 to 155 the Remuneration committee to enter into, with one another, operate and carry into effect an has informed the executive directors that they would be expected to Agreement known as the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement the build up a shareholding equal in value to two times salary over five Sharing Agreement and a Deed Poll Guarantee see page 268. years.
As set out on page 141 of the Remuneration report, non executive At the 2009 annual general meetings, shareholders of Rio Tinto plc directors are encouraged to build up a shareholding within three years and Rio Tinto Limited approved amendments to the constitutional of their appointment equal in value to one year of the base fee.
documents whereby the objects clauses were removed to allow the The directors may appoint additional members to join the boards Companies to have the widest possible scope of activities, save that during the year.
Directors appointed in this way will hold office until the relevant parts of Clause 4 A of the Rio Tinto plc Memorandum, the first annual general meeting after their appointment and are which relate to the powers to operate and carry into effect the Dual eligible for election at that meeting.
In subsequent years, and in Listed Company Structure, be preserved by their inclusion in article accordance with the principle introduced by the UK Corporate 105 Powers and obligations in relation to the Sharing Agreement.
Governance Code, directors offer themselves for re-election every Similarly and for consistency with Rio Tinto plcs Articles of Association, year.
Non executive directors are normally expected to serve at least Rio Tinto Limiteds Memorandum of Association was also deleted from six years and, except in special circumstances, would not normally the Rio Tinto Limited Constitution save for clauses 2 1, 5 and 6, which serve more than nine years.
relate to the powers to operate and carry into effect the Dual Listed Rights attaching to shares Company Structure, and preserve the integrity of the Dual Listed Company voting arrangements.
These provisions were incorporated Under English law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of into rules 7 and 111 of the Rio Tinto Limited Constitution.
profits available for distribution, as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and by the relevant law.
Directors Shareholders are entitled to receive such dividends as may be Under Rio Tinto plcs Articles of Association a director may not vote declared by the directors.
The directors may also pay shareholders in respect of any proposal in which he or any other person connected such interim dividends as appear to them to be justified by the with him, has any material interest other than by virtue of his interests financial position of the Group.
in shares or debentures or other securities of or otherwise in or through Any Rio Tinto plc dividend unclaimed after 12 years from the date the Company, except where resolutions: the dividend was declared, or became due for payment, will be indemnify him or a third party in respect of obligations incurred by forfeited and returned to the Company.
Any Rio Tinto Limited the director on behalf of, or for the benefit of, the Company, or in dividend unclaimed may be invested or otherwise made use of by respect of obligations of the Company, for which the director has the board for the benefit of the Company until claimed or otherwise assumed responsibility under an indemnity, security or guarantee: disposed of according to Australian law.
relate to an offer of securities in which he may be interested as a holder of securities or as an underwriter: www.
com 271 Shareholder information continued Voting rights The DLC Merger Sharing Agreement further classifies these three kinds of resolutions into Joint Decisions and Class Rights Actions Voting at any general meeting of shareholders on a resolution on as explained under voting rights on pages 269 to 270. which the holder of the Special Voting Share is entitled to vote shall be decided by a poll, and any other resolution shall be decided by a Annual general meetings must be convened with 21 days advance show of hands unless a poll has been duly demanded.
On a show of written notice for Rio Tinto plc and with 28 days for Rio Tinto Limited.
hands, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy or Other meetings of Rio Tinto plc must be convened with 21 days, other duly authorised representative at a general meeting and advance written notice for the passing of a special resolution and entitled to vote has one vote regardless of the number of shares held.
with 14 days for any other resolution, depending on the nature of the The holder of the Special Voting Share is not entitled to vote on a business to be transacted.
Other meetings of Rio Tinto Limited require show of hands.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person 28 days notice.
The days of delivery or receipt of the notice and the date or by proxy or other duly authorised representative and entitled to of the meeting are not included.
The notice must specify the nature vote has one vote for every ordinary share for which he or she is the of the business to be transacted.
The board of directors may, if they holder and, in the case of Joint Decisions, the holder of the Special choose, make arrangements for shareholders who are unable to attend Voting Share has one vote for each vote cast by the public the place of the meeting to participate at other places.
shareholders at the parallel meeting of shareholders.
A poll Variation of rights may be demanded by any of the following: If, at any time, the share capital is divided into different classes of the chairman of the meeting: shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the at least five shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution: provisions of the relevant legislation, with the consent in writing of holders of three fourths in value of the shares of that class or upon the any shareholder or shareholders representing in the aggregate adoption of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting not less than one tenth Rio Tinto plc or one twentieth Rio Tinto of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate Limited of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles of Association and vote on the resolution: Constitution relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, any shareholder or shareholders holding shares conferring a right except that the quorum for Rio Tinto plc should be two or more to vote at the meeting on which there have been paid-up sums in persons who hold or represent by proxy not less than one third in the aggregate equal to not less than one tenth of the total sum nominal value of the issued shares of the class.
paid up on all the shares conferring that right Rio Tinto plc : or Rights in a winding-up the holder of the Special Voting Share.
Except as the shareholders have agreed or may otherwise agree, A proxy form will be treated as giving the proxy the authority to upon a winding up, the balance of assets available for distribution: demand a poll, or to join others in demanding one.
after the payment of all creditors including certain preferential The necessary quorum for a Rio Tinto plc general meeting is three creditors, whether statutorily preferred creditors or normal members present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised creditors: and representative and for a Rio Tinto Limited general meeting is two subject to any special rights attaching to any class of shares: members present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised representative.
is to be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to the amounts paid-up on the shares held by them.
This distribution is Matters are transacted at general meetings by the proposing and generally to be made in cash.
A liquidator may, however, upon the passing of resolutions: adoption of an extraordinary resolution of the shareholders, divide an ordinary resolution, which includes resolutions for the election among the shareholders the whole or any part of the assets in kind.
of directors, the receiving of financial statements, the cumulative The DLC Merger Sharing Agreement further sets out the rights of annual payment of dividends, the appointment of auditors, the ordinary shareholders in a liquidation as explained on page 270. increase of authorised share capital or the grant of authority to allot shares: Limitations on voting and shareholding Except for the provisions of the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers a special resolution, which includes resolutions amending Act 1975 which impose certain conditions on the foreign ownership the Companys Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc or the of Australian companies, there are no limitations imposed by Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited, disapplying statutory law, Rio Tinto plcs Articles of Association or Rio Tinto Limiteds pre-emption rights or changing the Companys name or the Constitution, on the rights of non residents or foreign persons to modification of the rights of any class of the Groups shares at a hold or vote the Groups ordinary shares or ADSs that would not meeting of the holders of such class of shares or relating to certain apply generally to all shareholders.
matters concerning the winding up of either Company.
An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a majority Supplementary information of the votes of those persons voting at a meeting at which there is a General shareholder enquiries quorum.
Special resolutions require the affirmative vote of not less Computershare Investor Services PLC and Computershare Investor than three fourths of the persons voting at a meeting at which there is Services Pty Limited are the share registrars for Rio Tinto plc and a quorum.
In the case of an equality of votes, whether on a show of Rio Tinto Limited, respectively.
All enquiries and correspondence hands or on a poll, the chairman of the meeting is not entitled to cast concerning shareholdings, other than shares held in ADR form, the deciding vote in addition to any other vote he may have and the should be directed to the respective registrar.
Their addresses and resolution is not deemed to be passed.
272 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information telephone numbers are given under Useful information and contacts In addition, shareholders who register their email address on Investor on the back page.
Shareholders should notify Computershare promptly Centre, can be notified electronically of events such as annual general of any change of address.
meetings, and can receive shareholder communications such as the Annual report or notice of meeting electronically online.
Enquiries concerning Rio Tinto plc ADRs should be directed to JPMorgan Chase Bank NA whose address and telephone number Rio Tinto plc shareholders are also given under Useful information and contacts.
co. uk riotinto Warning to shareholders Rio Tinto Limited shareholders www.
com Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning Consolidation of share certificates investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers If a certificated shareholding in Rio Tinto plc is represented by several who target shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to individual share certificates, they can be replaced by one consolidated be worthless or high risk shares.
The brokers can be very persistent certificate.
There is no charge for this service.
Share certificates should and extremely persuasive, and the UK Financial Services Authority be sent to Computershare together with a letter of instruction.
FSA has reported that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
Share warrants to bearer All outstanding share warrants to bearer of Rio Tinto plc have been Shareholders are also warned to carefully consider any unsolicited converted into registered ordinary shares under the terms of a Scheme offers they receive to buy their Rio Tinto shares.
Some companies of Arrangement sanctioned by the Court in 2001.
Holders of any make offers to shareholders for their shareholdings at prices outstanding share warrants to bearer should contact the company significantly below what they could expect on the market.
Although secretary of Rio Tinto plc for an application form in order to obtain it is not against the law to make an unsolicited offer to buy someones their rights to registered ordinary shares.
shares, it is illegal to mislead or deceive shareholders into accepting an offer.
The offer must also comply with strict legal requirements, Former Alcan Inc. shareholders including prominent details of the current market value of the Former Alcan Inc. shareholders who have not tendered their Alcan shares if they were to be sold on the market.
shares to the Rio Tinto offer of US$101.00 per common share are entitled to claim their funds by sending a letter of transmittal together Shareholders are urged to seek independent professional advice to with their stock certificate to Computershare Investor Services Inc. protect themselves against a poor deal.
whose details are given under Useful information and contacts.
Investor Centre Corporate nominee service Investor Centre is a free, secure, self service website, where shareholders Computershare in conjunction with Rio Tinto plc, operate a corporate can manage their holdings online.
The website enables shareholders to: nominee service for private individuals.
Further information can be View share balances obtained from Computershare.
Change address details View payment and tax information Update payment instructions www.
com 273 Shareholder information continued Rio Tinto on the web Conversion of weights and measures Rio Tinto maintains a substantial amount of information on its 1 troy ounce 31.1 grams website, including this and previous annual reports, many other 1 kilogram 32.15 troy ounces publications and links to Group company websites.
1 kilogram 2.2046 pounds It is the responsibility of the directors to ensure that processes are 1 metric tonne 2,204.6 pounds in place to maintain information and preserve the integrity of the 1 metric tonne 1.1023 short tons Rio Tinto website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation 1 metric tonne 1,000 kilograms and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 1 short ton 2,000 pounds in other jurisdictions.
1 long ton 2,240 pounds Publications 1 gram per metric tonne 0.02917 troy ounces per short ton The following publications are on the website but hard copies can be 1 gram per metric tonne 0.03215 troy ounces per metric tonne obtained free of charge on request from the company secretaries: 1 kilometre 0.6214 miles 2010 Annual report Exchange rates 2010 Annual review The following tables show, for the periods and dates indicated, The way we work Rio Tintos code of business conduct certain information regarding the exchange rates for the pound sterling and Australian dollar, based on the Noon Buying Rates for Substantial shareholders pounds sterling and Australian dollars expressed in US dollars per Under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Australian 1.00 and per A$1.00.
Corporations Act, any shareholder of Rio Tinto plc with voting rights of three per cent or more or any person with voting power of five per Pounds sterling cent or more in Rio Tinto Limited, is required to provide the Companies Year ended 31 December Period end Average rate High Low with notice.
The shareholders who have provided such, or an 2010 1.56 1.55 1.64 1.43 equivalent, notice are: 2009 1.62 1.57 1.70 1.35 2008 1.44 1.86 2.03 1.44 Percentage of issued share 2007 1.99 2.00 2.11 1.92 Date of notice Number of shares capital Rio Tinto plc 2006 1.96 1.84 1.98 1.72 The Capital Group Companies, Inc 13 Jun 2006 41,031,494 3.90 Australian dollars Capital Research and Management Company 16 July 2009 75,461,183 4.95 Year ended 31 December Period end Average rate High Low AXA S. A.
Ltd 4 Feb 2008 The Noon Buying Rate on such dates differed slightly from the rates used in the preparation of Rio Tintos financial statements as of such date.
No representation is made that pound sterling BlackRock Investment and Australian dollar amounts have been, could have been or could be converted into dollars at Management Australia Limited 8 Nov 2010 25,357,003 5.81 the Noon Buying Rate on such dates or at any other dates.
Ltd, a Singapore based entity owned by Chinalco Aluminum Corporation of China acquired 119,705,134 Rio Tinto plc shares on 1 February 2008.
Through the operation of Corporations Act as modified, this gives these entities and their associates voting power of 9.32 per cent in the Rio Tinto Group on a joint decision matter, making them substantial shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited as well as of Rio Tinto plc.
As far as is known, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by any government or natural person.
Rio Tinto is not aware of any arrangement which may result in a change in control.
As of 21 February 2011, the total amount of the Groups voting securities owned by the directors in Rio Tinto plc was 411,355 ordinary shares of 10p each and in Rio Tinto Limited was 53,202 ordinary shares, in aggregate representing less than one per cent of the Groups total number of shares in issue.
Except as provided under the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement, as explained on page 269, the Groups major shareholders have the same voting and other rights as other shareholders.
HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited 88,809,632 20.38 2.
JP Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 60,609,606 13.91 3.
JP Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 7,317,079 1.68 7.
UBS Wealth Management Australia Nominees Pty Ltd 3,701,986 0.85 8.
Australian Foundation Investment Company Limited 3,573,706 0.82 10.
RBC Dexia Investor Services Australia Nominees Pty Limited 1,136,633 0.26 18.
Australian United Investment Company Limited 762,500 0.17 273,589,999 62.78 Large registered shareholders are nominees who hold securities on behalf of beneficial shareholders.
