Notes to the CoNsolidated FiNaNCial statemeNts notes to the consoliDAteD FinAnciAl stAtements 1 Accounting policies The Company Rolls-Royce group plc the company is a company domiciled in the united Kingdom.
the consolidated financial statements of the company for the year ended December 31, 2010 comprise the company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the group and the groups interest in jointly controlled and associated entities.
the financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on February 9, 2011.
Basis of preparation and statement of compliance in accordance with european union eu regulations, these financial statements have been prepared in accordance with international Financial Reporting standards iFRs issued by the international Accounting standards Board iAsB, as adopted for use in the eu effective at December 31, 2010 Adopted iFRs.
the company has elected to prepare its parent company accounts under uK generally Accepted Accounting practices gAAp.
the financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except where Adopted iFRs requires the revaluation of financial instruments to fair value and certain other assets and liabilities on an alternative basis most significantly post-retirement scheme liabilities are valued on the basis required by iAs 19. the groups significant accounting policies are set out below.
these accounting policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements and by all group entities.
the preparation of financial statements in conformity with Adopted iFRs requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and judgements.
the directors consider the potential key areas of judgements required to be made in applying the groups accounting policies to be: A large proportion of the groups activities relate to long-term aftermarket contracts.
the determination of appropriate accounting policies for recognising revenue and costs in respect of these contracts requires judgement, in particular i whether an aftermarket contract is linked, for accounting purposes, to the related sale of original equipment and ii the appropriate measure of stage of completion of the contract.
Where the group participates in the financing of original equipment, judgement is required to determine whether revenue should be recognised or whether the transaction results in the consolidation of a special purpose financing entity.
As set out in note 8, the group has significant intangible assets.
the decision as to when to commence capitalisation of development costs and whether sales of original equipment give rise to recognisable recoverable engine costs is a key judgement.
As set out in note 22, the group has contingent liabilities in respect of financing support provided to customers.
Judgement is required to assess the likelihood of these crystallising, in order to assess whether a provision should be recognised.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty in applying the groups accounting policies are described on page 94.
Basis of consolidation the group financial statements include the financial statements of the company and all of its subsidiary undertakings made up to December 31, together with the groups share of the results of joint ventures and associates up to December 31.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the company.
control exists when the company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to derive benefits from its activities.
A joint venture is an entity in which the group holds a long-term interest and which is jointly controlled by the group and one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
An associate is an entity, being neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture, in which the group holds a long-term interest and where the group has a significant influence.
the results of joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Any subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures or associates sold or acquired during the year are included up to, or from, the dates of change of control.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Adjustments are made to eliminate the profit or loss arising on transactions with joint ventures and associates to the extent of the groups interest in the entity.
89 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review
