Business review OPERATiONs We continue to invest in operational capability to enable the long-term growth plans of the Group to be executed.
Our strong positions in growing markets, We are focused represented by a record order book, together with on delivering today increasing services activity, place a demand on us and building to deliver world-class operational excellence from capability for tomorrow modern and efficient facilities.
Mike Terrett Chief Operating Officer Highlights 361m seletar and Crosspointe facilities on schedule Capital expenditure simple and scalable processes being embedded globally Expansion of repair and overhaul capability in Asia Further investment in iT completed across the Group supporting new advanced manufacturing centres Key performance indicators 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Capital expenditure m 303 304 283 291 361 Underlying revenue per employee 000 182 194 211 233 259 Calculated on a three-year rolling basis 38 rolls-royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review Business review Investing for growth 2009 proved to be a year of firsts with an unprecedented number of new programmes reaching first flight or launch.
in 2010, the work to support these programmes progressed well.
in June 2010, the first Trent XWB engine ran for the first time, in line with the plans we set out four years ago.
Flight test work progressed on the new Trent 1000 for the Boeing 787 and the TP400 for the Airbus A400M transport aircraft.
in marine, we introduced a new wave-piercing design of offshore support vessel, and in energy we launched the upgraded industrial RB211, the H63.
Our success at winning business in the wide-bodied aircraft market means we expect to more than double the number of Trent engines being delivered by the middle of this decade.
To manage this change in volume, investment in new facilities, tooling and capability continued during 2010.
Building work has progressed as planned on the Crosspointe facility in Virginia, Us, and at seletar Aerospace Park in executing operations effectively singapore.
With the external building work broadly complete, both are We are seeking to deliver world-class operational on target to be in operation by 2011 and 2012 respectively.
We opened the new Mechanical Test Operations Centre at Dahlewitz, There has been significant uncertainty in the economic environment Germany, and a new facility to support the F-35 liftFan assembly in during the last two years and our supply chain has performed well indianapolis, Us.
We also expanded the civil aerospace repair and throughout this volatile period, with an increasing emphasis on overhaul joint venture, singapore Aero Engine services limited, productivity, flexibility and execution.
The 2010 results reflect this increasing capacity to 250 large engines per year.
performance through a marginal reduction in inventory and progress in productivity, reflected by an improvement in revenue per employee.
in the UK, the new disc manufacturing plant in sunderland is progressing to plan and, in addition, we are supporting the Our global operational network is a highly integrated activity including development of four advanced manufacturing research centres.
Two our own facilities, partners and other external suppliers feeding the gas similar centres are being developed outside the UK.
All of these will help turbine applications in all four businesses.
in addition, we are managing improve manufacturing performance across the supply chain.
Additional substantial global supply chains to support our growing range of marine manufacturing capacity, for the submarines and civil nuclear businesses, and nuclear activities.
is being added to our existing facilities in Derby.
Delivering excellence People and capability During 2010, we have continued to focus on operational excellence with We are committed to investing in, and developing, our people to equip our programme of investments to improve current productivity and them with the skills required to meet the challenges and opportunities support the inevitable growth embedded in the order book.
we face as the business grows.
Through our ethics, health and safety programmes, we are helping our people to make the right decisions and We work in partnership with our external partners and suppliers to ensuring that the safety of our people and products are at the forefront reduce waste, improve designs and introduce better manufacturing of our minds and actions.
in 2010, we continued to invest heavily in methods for new and existing products.
Our achievements have helped information and technology across the Group.
investments in Product offset inflationary pressures in 2010, however, there remains more to do.
lifecycle Management PlM, Computer Aided Process Planning CAPP Creating simple, scalable processes and a culture of right first time are and Manufacturing Execution systems MEs are key to providing the key to operational excellence and will help achieve cost reductions in tools to enable effectiveness and efficiency.
every aspect of our operations.
Future The ongoing drive to reduce inventory provided further benefits in 2010.
Our journey to create a global, best-in-class, and fully integrated We are establishing systematic changes that can transform working operations function is well underway.
While economic uncertainty capital management and, in time, release cash.
seems likely to continue, our priorities remain to improve the effectiveness of our delivery and ensure we are well placed to meet the operational demands of the future.
39 rolls-royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review
