Notes to the CoNsolidated FiNaNCial statemeNts CoNtiNued 22 contingent liABilities AnD contingent Assets in connection with the sale of its products the group will, on some occasions, provide financing support for its customers.
the groups contingent liabilities relating to financing arrangements are spread over many years and relate to a number of customers and a broad product portfolio.
contingent liabilities are disclosed on a discounted basis.
As the directors consider the likelihood of these contingent liabilities crystallising to be remote, this amount does not represent a value that is expected to crystallise.
however, the amounts are discounted at the groups borrowing rate to reflect better the time span over which these exposures could arise.
the contingent liabilities are denominated in us dollars.
As the group does not adopt cash flow hedge accounting for forecast foreign exchange transactions, this amount is reported, together with the sterling equivalent at the reporting date spot rate.
the discounted values of contingent liabilities relating to delivered aircraft and other arrangements where financing is in place, less insurance arrangements and relevant provisions, were: 2010 2009 m $m m $m gross contingent liabilities 633 991 704 1,137 1 contingent liabilities net of relevant security 121 190 134 217 2 contingent liabilities net of relevant security reduced by 20% 200 314 233 376 1 security includes unrestricted cash collateral of: 68 106 77 124 2 Although sensitivity calculations are complex, the reduction of relevant security by 20 per cent illustrates the sensitivity of the contingent liability to changes in this assumption.
there are also net contingent liabilities in respect of undelivered aircraft, but it is not considered practicable to estimate these as deliveries can be many years in the future, and the relevant financing will only be put in place at the appropriate time.
contingent liabilities exist in respect of guarantees provided by the group in the ordinary course of business for product delivery, performance and reliability.
the group has, in the normal course of business, entered into arrangements in respect of export finance, performance bonds, countertrade obligations and minor miscellaneous items.
Various group undertakings are parties to legal actions and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business, some of which are for substantial amounts.
these include claims, which are yet to be substantiated, received by epi europrop international gmbh epi in which the group is a partner, which is developing the tp400 engine for the Airbus A400m aircraft.
As a consequence of the insolvency of an insurer as previously reported, the group is no longer fully insured against known and potential claims from employees who worked for certain of the groups uK based businesses for a period prior to the acquisition of those businesses by the group.
While the outcome of some of these matters cannot be precisely foreseen, the directors do not expect any of these arrangements, legal actions or claims, after allowing for provisions already made, to result in significant loss to the group.
in 2010, the launch nations reconfirmed their commitment to the A400m programme: however, the nations and Airbus remain in final negotiations to modify the existing agreement.
epi and Airbus are simultaneously in negotiations to modify their agreement in support of the A400m.
the timing and outcome of these negotiations, and their possible impact on epi and the group, therefore remain uncertain.
in the event that the programme were cancelled, at December 31, 2010, the groups balance sheet did not include any net assets that would require impairment 2009 17m.
As noted on page 81 of the business review, Rolls-Royce has commenced an action in respect of its swept fan blade patent.
subsequent proceedings have commenced against Rolls-Royce alleging patent infringement.
it is not possible, at this stage, to estimate the amount of any damages which might be awarded in favour of, or against, Rolls-Royce.
130 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review
