notes to the company Financial statements NOTeS TO The COMPANY FINANCIAl STATeMeNTS 1 ACCOuNTINg POlICIeS Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable uK Accounting Standards on the historical cost basis.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, a separate profit and loss account for the Company has not been included in these financial statements.
As permitted by the audit fee disclosure regulations, disclosure of non-audit fees information is not included in respect of the Company.
As permitted by FrS 1 Cash flow statements, no cash flow statement for the Company has been included.
As permitted by FrS 8 Related party disclosures, no related party disclosures in respect of transactions between the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries have been included.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are reported at cost less any amounts written off.
Share-based payments As described in the Directors remuneration report on pages 67 to 77, the Company grants awards of its own shares to employees of its subsidiary undertakings, see note 20 of the consolidated financial statements.
The costs of share-based payments in respect of these awards are accounted for, by the Company, as an additional investment in its subsidiary undertakings.
The costs are determined in accordance with FrS 20 Share-based payment.
Any payments made by the subsidiary undertakings in respect of these arrangements are treated as a return of this investment.
Own shares for settlement of share-based payment plans Where the Company acquires its own shares for the purpose of satisfying share-based payment plans, the cost in excess of any exercise price payable by the plan participants is written off to the profit and loss reserve.
Current assets Amounts are recognised at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Financial instruments In accordance with FrS 25 Financial instruments: Presentation, the Companys C Shares are classified as financial liabilities and held at amortised cost from the date of issue until redeemed or converted.
Taxation Provision for taxation is made at the current rate and, in accordance with FrS 19 Deferred tax, for deferred taxation at the projected rate on timing differences that have originated, but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
2 INveSTMeNTS SuBSIDIArY uNDerTAKINgS m Cost: At January 1, 2010 2,261 Cost of share-based payments in respect of employees of subsidiary undertakings less receipts from subsidiaries in respect of those payments 13 At December 31, 2010 2,274 3 FINANCIAl lIABIlITIeS C Shares Movements in the C Shares during the year were as follows: C Shares Nominal of 0.1p value Millions m Issued and fully paid At January 1, 2010 12,577 13 Shares issued 278,115 278 Shares redeemed 267,312 267 At December 31, 2010 23,380 23 rights attaching to C Shares are described on page 78.
135 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review
