governance MATERIAL LITIGATION In 2010, Rolls-Royce commenced an action in the United States against It is not possible to comment at this stage on the amount of any United Technologies Corporation UTC, the parent company of Pratt & damages which might be awarded in favour of, or against, Rolls-Royce Whitney, alleging that the GP7200 turbofan engine, UTCs geared although an award of damages or the financial effect of other remedies turbofan engine, and other UTC turbofan engines infringe Rolls-Royce could be material.
Rolls-Royce is advised that it has a strong claim swept fan blade patent.
A trial is expected be held in June this year.
against UTC and strong defences in the proceedings brought by UTC.
UTC subsequently commenced proceedings against Rolls-Royce in the United States and in England alleging that Trent 900, Trent 1000 and Trent XWB engines infringe its patent.
Judgements in UTCs cases are expected to be handed down between 2012 and 2015.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records report and the financial statements that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure applicable law and regulations.
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law fraud and other irregularities.
they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in for preparing a Directors report, Directors remuneration report and accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Corporate governance statement that complies with that law and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Going concern make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been its future development, performance and position are set out on pages 1 prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: to 41 of the business review and a summary of the principal risks for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable affecting the business are shown on pages 26 and 27.
The financial UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, borrowing departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial facilities and financial risks are described in pages 48 to 55 of the statements: and business review.
In addition, notes 1, 13, 14 and 16 of the consolidated prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company processes for financial risk management, details of its cash and cash will continue in business.
81 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements governance Business review governance equivalents, indebtedness and borrowing facilities and its financial Responsibility statement instruments, hedging activities and its exposure to counterparty credit Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this risk, liquidity risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and commodity report confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: pricing risk.
i each of the Group and parent company financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS and UK Accounting Standards As described on page 54, the Group meets its funding requirements respectively, gives a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial through a mixture of shareholders funds, bank borrowings, bonds, notes position and profit or loss of the issuer and the undertakings included and finance leases.
The table on page 48 shows the maturity profile of in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Groups outstanding debt facilities: a total of 567 million is due to ii the Directors report on pages 1 to 82 includes a fair review of the expire in 2011.
The Group has a further 450 million of term funding development and performance of the business and the position of available that is currently undrawn.
the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and The Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably uncertainties that they face.
possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group has sufficient financial resources.
As a consequence the directors have a By order of the Board reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group are well placed to manage their business risks and to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, despite the current uncertain global Tim Rayner economic outlook.
Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the General Counsel and Company Secretary going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
February 9, 2011 Disclosure of information to auditors Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: i so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: ii the director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
82 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements governance Business review
