Notes to the CoNsolidated FiNaNCial statemeNts CoNtiNued 19 shARe cApitAl Non-equity Equity Ordinary Special Nominal shares Nominal Share value of 20p each value of 1 m Millions m Issued and fully paid At January 1, 2009 1 1,844 369 proceeds from shares issued for share option schemes 10 2 At January 1, 2010 1 1,854 371 proceeds from shares issued for share option schemes 18 3 At December 31, 2010 1 1,872 374 the rights attaching to each class of share are set out on page 78. in accordance with iAs 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, the companys non-cumulative redeemable preference shares c shares are classified as financial liabilities.
Accordingly, movements in c shares are included in note 16.
20 shARe-BAseD pAyments Effect of share-based payment transactions on the Groups results and financial position 2010 2009 m m total expense recognised for equity-settled share-based payments transactions 47 30 total expense recognised for cash-settled share-based payments transactions 3 1 share-based payments recognised in the consolidated income statement 50 31 liability for cash-settled share-based payment transactions 5 2 Share-based payment plans in operation during the year Performance Share Plan PSP this plan involves the award of shares to participants subject to performance conditions.
Vesting of the performance shares is based on the achievement of both non-market based conditions eps and cash flow per share and a market based performance condition total shareholder Return tsR over a three-year period.
ShareSave share option plan ShareSave Based on a three or five-year monthly savings contract, eligible employees are granted share options with an exercise price of up to 20 per cent below the share price when the contract is entered into.
Vesting of the options is not subject to the achievement of a performance target.
in the uK, the plan is hm Revenue & customs approved.
overseas, employees in 33 countries participate in cash-settled sharesave plans through arrangements which provide broadly comparable benefits to the uK plan.
Executive Share Option Plan ESOP this plan involved the grant of market value share options to participants.
it terminated in 2009 and no further grants may be made.
Remaining options under the plan are subject to a non-market based performance condition growth in eps and have a maximum contractual life of ten years.
Annual Performance Related Award APRA plan deferred shares A proportion of the ApRA annual incentive scheme is delivered in the form of a deferred share award.
the release of deferred share awards is not dependent on the achievement of any further performance conditions other than that participants remain employed by the group for two years from the date of the award in order to retain the full number of shares.
During the two-year deferral period, participants are entitled to receive dividends, or equivalent, on the deferred shares.
Further information regarding the operation of the plans can be found on pages 69 and 70 of the Directors remuneration report.
126 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review
