Notes to the CoNsolidated FiNaNCial statemeNts CoNtiNued 7 AuDitoRs RemuneRAtion Fees payable to the companys auditors and its associates were as follows: 2010 2009 m m 1 Fees payable to the companys auditors for the audit of the companys annual financial statements 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the companys auditors and its associates for the audit of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 4.3 4.1 total fees payable for audit services 4.4 4.2 Fees payable to the companys auditors and its associates for other services: other services pursuant to legislation 0.5 0.6 other services relating to taxation 0.5 0.4 5.4 5.2 Fees payable in respect of the groups pension schemes: Audit 0.2 0.2 other services relating to taxation 0.1 0.1 1 the level of fees payable to the companys auditors for the audit of the companys annual financial statements reflects the fact that limited incremental work is required in respect of the audit of these financial statements.
Rolls-Royce plc, a subsidiary of the company, is also required to prepare consolidated financial statements and the fees payable to the companys auditors for the audit of those financial statements, including the audit of the sub-consolidation, is included in the audit of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation.
104 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review Notes to the CoNsolidated FiNaNCial statemeNts CoNtiNued 8 intAngiBle Assets continueD Goodwill in accordance with the requirements of iAs 36 Impairment of Assets, goodwill is allocated to the groups cash-generating units, or groups of cashgenerating units, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination that gave rise to the goodwill as follows: Cash-generating unit CGU or group of CGUs Primary reporting 2010 2009 segment m m Rolls-Royce Deutschland ltd & co Kg civil aerospace 236 244 commercial marine arising from the acquisitions of Vinters plc and scandinavian electric holdings As marine 657 645 commercial marine arising from the acquisition of oDim AsA marine 114 other Various 101 95 1,108 984 goodwill has been tested for impairment during 2010 on the following basis: the carrying value of goodwill has been assessed by reference to value in use.
these have been estimated using cash flows from the most recent forecasts prepared by management, which are consistent with past experience and external sources of information on market conditions.
given the long-term and established nature of many of the groups products product lives are often measured in decades, these forecast the next ten years.
growth rates for the period not covered by the forecasts are based on a range of growth rates 2.0-2.5 per cent that reflect the products, industries and countries in which the relevant cgu or group of cgus operate.
the key assumptions for the impairment tests are the discount rate and, in the cash flow projections, the programme assumptions, the growth rates and the impact of foreign exchange rates on the relationship between selling prices and costs.
impairment tests are performed using prevailing exchange rates.
the pre-tax cash flow projections have been discounted at 13 per cent 2009 13 per cent, based on the groups weighted average cost of capital.
the principal value in use assumptions for goodwill balances considered to be individually significant are: Rolls-Royce Deutschland ltd & co Kg Volume of engine deliveries, flying hours of installed fleet and cost escalation, these are based on current and known future programmes, estimates of customers fleet requirements and long-term economic forecasts.
the principal foreign exchange exposure is on translating us dollar income into euros.
For the purposes of the impairment test only, cash flows beyond the ten-year forecasts are assumed to grow at 2.5 per cent 2009 2.5 per cent.
the directors do not consider that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions would cause the value in use of the goodwill to fall below its carrying value.
the overall level of business would need to reduce by more than 45 per cent to cause an impairment of this balance.
Vinters plc Volume of equipment deliveries, capture of aftermarket and cost escalation, these are based on current and known future programmes, estimates of customers fleet requirements and long-term economic forecasts.
the principal foreign exchange exposures are on translating income in a variety of non functional currencies into norwegian Kroner.
For the purposes of the impairment test only, cash flows beyond the ten-year forecasts are assumed to grow at two per cent 2009 four per cent.
the overall level of business would need to reduce by more than 80 per cent to cause an impairment of this balance.
Other intangible assets certification costs and participation fees, development costs and recoverable engine costs have been reviewed for impairment in accordance with the requirements of iAs 36 Impairment of Assets.
Where an impairment test was considered necessary, it has been performed on the following basis: the carrying values have been assessed by reference to value in use.
these have been estimated using cash flows from the most recent forecasts prepared by management, which are consistent with past experience and external sources of information on market conditions over the lives of the respective programmes.
the key assumptions underlying cash flow projections are assumed market share, programme timings, unit cost assumptions, discount rates, and foreign exchange rates.
the pre-tax cash flow projections have been discounted at 11 per cent 2009 11 per cent, based on the groups weighted average cost of capital.
no impairment is required on this basis.
however, a combination of changes in assumptions and adverse movements in variables that are outside the companys control discount rate, exchange rate and airframe delays, could result in impairment in future years.
105 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review
