Operations Employees 25 The Group remains committed to creating an employment environment which will attract, retain and motivate employees of high calibre.
Emphasis is placed upon personal development to meet both current and future needs.
Employee communication and consultation is encouraged at all levels of the business.
The criteria for selection and promotion are the individuals suitability for the position offered based on their qualifications, experience, skills and abilities.
Business units manage the remuneration of staff within the guidelines of approved annual budgets.
We have appropriate human resource structures and systems managed by personnel professionals throughout the businesses and countries in which we operate.
RPS was awarded first place in Britains Top Employers 2010 by the Corporate Research Foundation CRF Institute in association with the Daily Telegraph and HR Management.
CRF has been given special recognition by the EU Commission for its outstanding contribution to employer best practice in several EU countries.
The Company operates share incentive plans on an international basis.
These are open to the majority of the Groups employees and enable employees to purchase RPS shares with the Company providing a matching share contribution.
The Company also operates a Performance Share Plan in which more senior employees participate and which offers the potential to build a significant equity interest over a number of years.
Operating Structure Our operating structure has developed as the Group has grown in size and complexity.
Changes are driven by the need to achieve the correct balance between the autonomy that enables our businesses to operate in a flexible and responsive fashion, whilst ensuring transparency and accountability throughout the Group.
The Group is split into a number of operating divisions, which focus on the principal markets that we serve both by sector and geography.
Our smaller business units focus on specialised areas but are accountable to the relevant divisional management board.
Underpinning this structure is a set of clear obligations in terms of reporting and authorities that operates throughout the Group.
Our principal businesses in both the UK and overseas employ appropriately qualified accounting, human resource and other support staff.
In the recent period of economic uncertainty this structure has enabled the extra attention to detail that is vital to ensure operational efficiency and careful cost management.
During the course of 2010 we have developed the structure of our Australian business and its Board in order to enable the further expansion of this business.
In addition our British, Irish and Northern Irish Planning and Development businesses have now been merged: this will facilitate more efficient management, marketing and resource allocation.
com Operations In addition to retaining appropriate trainers are responsible for the 26 control, the Group provides support management of training and for the to the sales and marketing activities verification of technical competence for of our businesses through its business project personnel, in accordance with information unit which is also responsible our quality management system.
for the maintenance and development We aim to identify and provide of the Groups intranet and website.
training, education and development We have continued to invest in for employees, in order that they can information technology to facilitate better develop and apply this knowledge to communication and flow of information greater and more demanding roles in both internally and externally.
Wherever possible we try to during 2010 we installed telepresence identify successors to key posts within video conference systems in the UK the organisation as part of our ongoing and Australia in order to improve succession management policy.
Prior to external advertisement any Equal Opportunities available posts are published on the in Employment JoinRPS.
com careers website and RPS provides equal opportunities for all promoted internally via the Groups its employees and potential employees Intranet.
Central to identifying our regardless of their sex, sexual orientation, training and educational needs is staff trans-gender status, religion or belief, appraisal.
This activity is concerned marital status, civil partnership status, with developing staff by identifying and pregnancy, age, disability, race, colour, meeting performance and training needs nationality, national or ethnic origins.
as well as developing individual potential.
The policy applies to the process of Appraisals are intended to complement recruitment and selection, promotion, the standard staff induction programme training, conditions of work, pay and on Company policy and procedures, benefits and to every other aspect which covers topics including safety of employment.
or equipment handling and involves assessments of competency on a more Training and Continuous administrative level.
Staff appraisal is a Professional Development continuous process and is not limited RPS is committed to the training, to formal meetings.
However, formal education and development of its appraisal meetings take place in many employees to increase effectiveness, parts of the Group at least once a year.
develop potential and ensure adequate RPS is a recognised commercial training succession planning.
provider in a number of specific technical Divisional Directors, their appointed fields and is certified by such external project managers and professional Report and Accounts 2010 bodies as CCNSG ECITB on site safety in specific sectors, such as the water 27 courses.
RPS, for example, operates a industry, or in relevant aspects of CIWEM approved structured training environmental consultancy.
scheme for its chartered water and Academic Bursaries environmental engineers and MICE During 2010 RPS continued its long term and MIEI approved CPD schemes for practice of awarding academic bursaries civil engineers in the UK and Ireland.
to students studying relevant courses Employees are encouraged to take on at particular colleges and universities active involvement with professional and as well as supporting staff through industry bodies.
In Australia, for example, further academic study.
In doing so RPS employees are significant contributors to supported academic study and or ongoing the Society of Petroleum Engineers, The research at the universities and colleges Urban Development Institute and the listed below: Property Council of Australia.
Our aim is to help the development of individuals n University College, London throughout their employment with the n Imperial College, Company, by underpinning their skills University of London and professional ethics, whilst broadening their business knowledge.
One of the n Queen Marys College, key objectives of the scheme is the University of London long-term commitment to CPD of all n Birkbeck College, existing staff within the organisation.
University of London Thereby, individuals are always able to demonstrate technical experience n Oxford Brooks University n University of Gloucester Group Average number 2010 2009 n University of Central England, of employees Birmingham Number of employees 4,372 4,254 Days absent % 2 1.8 n Birmingham City University Average length of service years 6 5.4 n South Birmingham College Working part time % 9 11 n Stourbridge College, Birmingham Retention rate % 84 90 n University of Wolverhampton Age profile Employees aged under 25 % 8 9 n University of Coventry Employees aged 25-29 % 17 19 n University of Loughborough Employees aged 30-49 % 55 53 Employees aged 50 % 20 19 n University of Derby n fide Montfort University excluding redundancies rpsgroup.
com Operations n Nottingham Trent University, The Netherlands 28 n University of Nottingham n T echnical University of Delft n University Lincoln n I nHolland College, Rotterdam n Lincoln College n U trecht College n Anglia Ruskin University Australia n University of Southampton n U niversity of New England n University of Manchester n G riffiths University n University of Salford n Queensland University of Technology n Sheffield Hallam University n U niversity of the Sunshine Coast n University of Northumbria n S winburne University n University of York n C urtin Universitynsity, diplccountancy n The Open University, Milton Keynes Growth and Funding n University College, Cardiff Despite current economic circumstances RPS operates in markets which are n University of Wales Newport generally attractive and expanding with n University of Glamorgan good long-term prospects, but which are fast changing.
We need, therefore, n St Andrews University to keep our range of services and the n Stirling University way we market and deliver them under continuous review.
The Board believes n Napier University, Edinburgh that the long-term health and growth n Aberdeen College of Commerce of the Group will be best secured by ensuring that RPS is, and is perceived by n Queens University Belfast clients and staff to be, a market leader in n University of Ulster each of our business areas.
Our corporate strategy is designed to achieve this.
Ireland We endeavour to deliver long-term n University College, Dublin shareholder value and have, therefore, n Trinity College, Dublin to balance annual earnings growth with investment in both our existing clients, n Dublin City University staff and products and the development n National University of Ireland Galway of our service offering and capability.
Report and Accounts 2010 The acquisition strategy RPS has pursued Dividend Policy 29 over the last two decades has brought For many years our dividend per considerable benefit to shareholders, share has grown at an average annual clients and staff.
The companies acquired compound rate of about 15%.
Our have enabled us to build strong positions ability to maintain this level of growth in a number of markets.
This has included will depend upon the scale of earnings the creation of a substantial business in growth, the nature and scale of future the energy sector.
This, in turn, enables us acquisitions and how that investment is to offer a broader, higher quality service funded.
The final dividend will normally to our clients and attractive employment be greater than the interim payment.
to staff and potential recruits.
The Shareholder Value financial performance of the companies The Board manages the Group in order which have been acquired has increased to achieve good levels of growth in the Groups growth.
The Board sees the shareholder value on a consistent longmaintenance of this element of the term basis.
It is, however, recognised that strategy as being of importance to the this can only be achieved by providing a continued growth of the Group and will competitive service which adds value to consider more significant acquisitions, as our clients organisations and offering an well as making acquisitions outside the attractive working environment and countries in which we currently operate.
career prospects to our staff.
Striking At the year end the Group had net bank this balance whilst also respecting our borrowings of 31.5 million Note 24. responsibility to society at large is the RPS normally generates sufficient free main task facing the Board.
Current cash to fund its working capital and economic circumstances make the capital expenditure requirements.
achievement of this balance even Additional cash resources are, therefore, more challenging.
only needed in order to pursue the Groups acquisition strategy.
Corporate Governance RPS operates to a strong system of The Board believes the Groups current governance in order to safeguard bank facilities, that include a 125 million the interests of its shareholders.
The revolving credit facility Note 14, are structures and policies that are in place adequate for current purposes, but to achieve this are set out on pages 44 would be prepared to increase them in to 59. order to make appropriate investments.
com 30 Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2010 2010
