Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Statement of directors responsibilities 143 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the company financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the In addition, the Companies Act 2006 requires directors to provide the remuneration report and the company financial statements in accordance companys auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps and with applicable law and regulations.
undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
Each of the Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for directors, having made appropriate enquiries, confirms that: each financial year.
The directors have elected to prepare the company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice of which the companys auditors are unaware: and and applicable law.
The financial statements are required by law to give each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company for that year.
as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: aware of that information.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: A copy of the financial statements of the company is placed on the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: companys website.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, and integrity of statutory and audited information on the companys subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many financial statements: and countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
