68 Statement of directors responsibilities SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the consolidated financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the consolidated financial In addition, the Companies Act 2006 requires directors to provide the statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
groups auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to be appropriate Company law requires the directors to prepare consolidated financial for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
Each of the statements for each financial year.
The directors have prepared the directors, having made appropriate enquiries, confirms that: consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information Union.
The consolidated financial statements are required by law to of which the groups auditors are unaware: and give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and of the each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken profit or loss of the group for that year.
as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the groups auditors are In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: aware of that information.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The directors have reviewed the groups budget and cash flow make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: forecasts.
On the basis of this review, and in the light of the current state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted financial position and existing borrowing facilities, the directors are by the European Union: and satisfied that SABMiller plc is a going concern and have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
prepare the consolidated financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will continue A copy of the financial statements of the group is placed on the in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions companys website.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance or qualifications as necessary.
and integrity of statutory and audited information on the companys The directors confirm that they have complied with the above website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many requirements in preparing the financial statements.
countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and to enable them to ensure that the consolidated financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Governance section of the Annual Report, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group: and the directors report contained in the Governance section of the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
