Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 75 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the Amendment to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of IFRS and IAS 27, groups financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements on the Cost of consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate.
Amendment to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation and a Basis of preparation IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements Puttable Financial The consolidated financial statements of SABMiller plc have been Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements.
as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes.
IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to Amendment to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39, Reassessment of Embedded companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation to fair value of certain financial assets and ii Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing liabilities, and post-retirement assets and liabilities as described in the standards that are not yet effective and have not been early accounting policies below.
The accounts have been prepared on a adopted by the group: going concern basis.
The following standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the groups The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2010 or later periods, the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management but which have not been early adopted by the group: to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the groups accounting policies.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
IFRS 1 revised, First-time Adoption, is effective from 1 July 2009.
IFRS 3 revised, Business Combinations, is effective from 1 July 2009. b Recent accounting developments IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, is effective from 1 July 2009. i Standards, amendments and interpretations of existing standards adopted by the group Amendment to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and The group has adopted the following as of 1 April 2009: Measurement Eligible Hedged Items, is effective from 1 July 2009.
IAS 1 revised, Presentation of financial statements requires IFRIC 16, Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, 1 the presentation of a statement of changes in equity as a primary is effective from 1 October 2008. statement, includes non-mandatory changes to the titles of primary IFRIC 17, Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners, is effective statements and introduces a statement of comprehensive income, from 1 July 2009. but allows the presentation of a two statement approach with a IFRIC 18, Transfers of Assets from Customers, is effective from separate income statement and statement of comprehensive 31 October 2009. income.
The group has chosen to maintain existing primary Amendment to IFRS 2, Group Cash-settled and Share-based statement titles and to follow the two statement approach.
2 Payment Transactions, effective from 1 January 2010.
Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendment to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation requires additional disclosures about fair value measurement Classification of Rights Issues, is effective from 1 February 2010. and liquidity risk.
Annual improvements to IFRSs 2009, is effective from 1 January 2010.
IFRS 8, Operating Segments requires separate reporting of segmental information for operating segments.
Operating segments reflect the Amendment to IFRS 1 for additional exemptions, is effective from 2 management structure of the group and the way performance is 1 January 2010. evaluated and resources allocated based on group revenue and IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, EBITA by the groups chief operating decision maker, defined as 2 is effective from 1 July 2010. the executive directors.
The group is focused geographically and 2 Annual improvements to IFRSs 2010, is effective from 1 January 2011. as a result of the implementation of IFRS 8, Africa and Asia are Amendment to IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, is effective from now presented as separate segments.
Comparative information 2 1 January 2011. has been restated accordingly.
While not meeting the definition of reportable segments, the group reports separately as segments Amendment to IFRIC 14, Pre-payments of a Minimum Funding 2 Asia, South Africa Hotels and Gaming and Corporate as this Requirement, is effective January 2011. provides useful additional information.
2 IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, effective from 1 January 2013.
On 23 March 2010, the EU endorsed Annual Improvements to 1 EU endorsed for 1 July 2009.
IFRSs 2009, which included an amendment to the disclosures 2 Not yet endorsed by the EU.
required by IFRS 8, Operating Segments.
Although only mandatory The adoption of these standards, interpretations and amendments is for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010, the group has not anticipated to have a material effect on the consolidated results of chosen to adopt this amendment early.
Following the implementation operations or financial position of the group.
of IFRS 8 and the early adoption of the subsequent amendment, the group no longer discloses segment assets or liabilities, as these c Significant judgements and estimates are not reported to the groups chief operating decision maker.
In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often The following standards, interpretations and amendments have been required where the choice of specific policy, assumption or accounting adopted by the group since 1 April 2009 with no significant impact estimate to be followed could materially affect the reported results or on its consolidated results or financial position: net position of the group, should it later be determined that a different Annual improvements to IFRSs 2008. choice be more appropriate.
Amendment to IAS 23 revised, Borrowing Costs.
Amendment to IFRS 2, Share-based Payments Vesting Conditions and Cancellations.
76 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Management considers the following to be areas of significant vii MillerCoors joint venture judgement and estimation for the group due to greater complexity The determination of the valuation of the Coors business contributed and or particularly subject to the exercise of judgement: to the MillerCoors joint venture was a specific area of judgement for the group during the previous financial year.
The valuation was determined i Impairment reviews using recognised valuation techniques based upon specific assumptions.
Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the relevant If alternative assumptions had been used then the value of the investment cash generating unit CGU.
Impairment reviews in respect of the and gain recognised on disposal would have been different.
relevant CGUs are performed at least annually or more regularly if events indicate that this is necessary.
Impairment reviews are based d Segmental reporting on future cash flows discounted using the weighted average cost of Operating segments reflect the management structure of the group capital for the relevant country with terminal values calculated applying and the way performance is evaluated and resources allocated based the long-term growth rate.
The future cash flows which are based on on group revenue and EBITA by the groups chief operating decision business forecasts, the long-term growth rates and the discount rates maker, defined as the executive directors.
The group is focused used are dependent on management estimates and judgements.
geographically and as a result of the implementation of IFRS 8, Africa Future events could cause the assumptions used in these impairment and Asia are now presented as separate segments.
Comparative reviews to change with a consequent adverse impact on the results information has been restated accordingly.
While not meeting the and net position of the group.
Details of the estimates used in the definition of reportable segments, the group reports separately as impairment reviews for the year are set out in note 10. segments Asia, South Africa Hotels and Gaming and Corporate as this provides useful additional information.
ii Taxation The group operates in many countries and is subject to taxes in numerous e Basis of consolidation jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the SABMiller plc the company is a public limited company incorporated provision for taxes as the tax treatment is often by its nature complex, in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
The consolidated and cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution has been financial statements include the financial information of the subsidiary, reached with the relevant tax authority which may take several years associate and joint venture entities owned by the company.
Amounts provided are accrued based on managements interpretation of country specific tax laws and the likelihood of settlement.
i Subsidiaries Actual liabilities could differ from the amount provided which could Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the company, where control is have a significant impact on the results and net position of the group.
the power directly or indirectly to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities, regardless iii Pension and post-retirement benefits of whether this power is actually exercised.
Where the companys Pension accounting requires certain assumptions to be made in order interest in subsidiaries is less than 100%, the share attributable to to value the groups pension and post-retirement obligations in the outside shareholders is reflected in minority interests.
Subsidiaries are balance sheet and to determine the amounts to be recognised in the included in the financial statements from the date control commences income statement and in other comprehensive income in accordance until the date control ceases.
The calculations of these obligations and charges are based on assumptions determined by management which include Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income discount rates, salary and pension inflation, healthcare cost inflation, and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in mortality rates and expected long-term rates of return on assets.
preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised losses are Details of the assumptions used are set out in note 31.
The selection eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of different assumptions could affect the net position of the group and of the asset transferred.
Some of the companys subsidiaries have a local statutory accounting reference date of 31 December.
These are consolidated using management iv Property, plant and equipment prepared information on a basis coterminous with the companys The determination of the useful economic life and residual values of accounting reference date.
property, plant and equipment is subject to management estimation.
The group regularly reviews all of its depreciation rates and residual ii Associates values to take account of any changes in circumstances, and any Associates are entities in which the group has a long-term interest and changes that could affect prospective depreciation charges and over which the group has directly or indirectly significant influence, asset carrying values.
where significant influence is the ability to influence the financial and operating policies of the entity.
v Business combinations On the acquisition of a company or business, a determination of the The associate, Distell Group Ltd, has a statutory accounting reference fair value and the useful life of intangible assets acquired is performed, date of 30 June.
In respect of each year ending 31 March, this company which requires the application of management judgement.
Future is included based on financial statements drawn up to the previous events could cause the assumptions used by the group to change 31 December, but taking into account any changes in the subsequent which would have a significant impact on the results and net position period from 1 January to 31 March that would materially affect the of the group.
All other associates are included on a coterminous basis.
vi Exceptional items iii Joint ventures Exceptional items are expense or income items recorded in a period Joint ventures are contractual arrangements which the group has which have been determined by management as being material by entered into with one or more parties to undertake an economic their size or incidence and are presented separately within the results activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control is the contractually of the group.
The determination of which items are disclosed as agreed sharing of control over an economic activity, and exists only exceptional items will affect the presentation of profit measures when the strategic, financial and operating decisions relating to the including EBITA and adjusted earnings per share, and requires a activity require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing the control.
Details relating to exceptional items reported during the year are set out in note 4.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 77 1.
Accounting policies continued f Foreign exchange g Business combinations i Foreign exchange translation i Subsidiaries Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups entities The purchase method is used to account for the acquisition of are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment subsidiaries.
The identifiable net assets including intangibles are in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of their fair financial statements are presented in US dollars which is the groups value from the effective date of control, and the results of subsidiary presentational currency.
The exchange rates to the US dollar used in undertakings acquired during the financial year are included in the preparing the consolidated financial statements were as follows: groups results from that date.
Control is presumed to exist when the group owns, directly or indirectly Year ended Year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 through subsidiaries, more than half of the voting power of an entity unless, in exceptional circumstances, it can be clearly demonstrated Average rate that such ownership does not constitute control.
Control also exists South African rand ZAR 7.78 8.87 where the group has the ability to direct or dominate decision-making Colombian peso COP 2,031 2,061 in an entity, regardless of whether this power is actually exercised.
Euro 0.71 0.69 Czech koruna CZK 18.45 17.54 On the acquisition of a company or business, fair values reflecting Peruvian nuevo sol PEN 2.92 3.01 conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identifiable Polish zloty PLN 2.99 2.51 assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities Closing rate acquired.
Fair values of these assets and liabilities are determined South African rand ZAR 7.30 9.61 by reference to market values, where available, or by reference to Colombian peso COP 1,929 2,561 the current price at which similar assets could be acquired or similar Euro 0.74 0.76 obligations entered into, or by discounting expected future cash flows Czech koruna CZK 18.87 20.57 to present value, using either market rates or the risk-free rates and Peruvian nuevo sol PEN 2.84 3.15 risk-adjusted expected future cash flows.
Polish zloty PLN 2.86 3.52 The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets The average exchange rates have been calculated based on the given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at average of the exchange rates during the relevant year which have been the date of the acquisition plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
weighted according to the phasing of revenue of the groups businesses.
It also includes the groups estimate of any deferred consideration payable.
Where the business combination agreement provides for an ii Transactions and balances adjustment to the cost that is contingent on future events, contingent The financial statements for each group company have been prepared consideration is included in the cost of an acquisition if the adjustment on the basis that transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in is probable that is, more likely than not and can be measured reliably.
their functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of The difference between the costs of acquisition and the share of the the transaction.
Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are net assets acquired is capitalised as goodwill.
retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date Where the group purchases additional shares in subsidiaries such with the resultant translation differences being included in operating purchases are reflected as separate acquisition processes and no profit in the income statement other than those arising on financial revised fair valuation is required.
The difference between the costs assets and liabilities which are recorded within net finance costs of acquisition and the share of the net assets acquired is capitalised and those which are deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges as goodwill.
and qualifying net investment hedges.
Translation differences on nonmonetary assets such as equity investments classified as available On the subsequent disposal or termination of a previously acquired for sale assets are included in other comprehensive income.
business, the results of the business are included in the groups results up to the effective date of disposal.
The profit or loss on disposal or iii Overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures termination is calculated after charging the amount of any related One-off items in the income and cash flow statements of overseas goodwill to the extent that it has not previously been taken to the subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures expressed in currencies income statement.
other than the US dollar are translated to US dollars at the rates of exchange prevailing on the day of the transaction.
All other items ii Associates and joint ventures are translated at weighted average rates of exchange for the relevant The groups share of the recognised income and expenses of reporting period.
Assets and liabilities of these undertakings are associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity translated at closing rates of exchange at each balance sheet date.
method from the date significant influence or joint control commences All translation exchange differences arising on the retranslation of to the date it ceases based on present ownership interests.
The date opening net assets together with differences between income statements significant influence or joint control commences is not necessarily the translated at average and closing rates are recognised as a separate same as the closing date or any other date named in the contract.
For these purposes net assets include loans The group recognises its share of associates and joint ventures between group companies that form part of the net investment, for post-tax results as a one line entry before profit before tax in the which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable income statement and its share of associates and joint ventures future.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, any related exchange equity movements as a one line entry under other comprehensive differences in equity are reclassified to the income statement as part income in the statement of comprehensive income.
of the gain or loss on disposal.
When the groups interest in an associate or joint venture has been Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a reduced to nil because the groups share of losses exceeds its interest foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity in the associate or joint venture, the group only provides for additional and translated at the closing rate.
losses to the extent that it has incurred legal or constructive obligations to fund such losses, or make payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Where the investment in an associate or joint venture is disposed, the investment ceases to be equity accounted.
78 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued iii Goodwill iii Customer lists and distributor relationships recognised Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the costs of as part of a business combination acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable The fair value of businesses acquired may include customer lists assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the and distributor relationships.
These are recognised as intangible acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Where the fair value of the assets and are calculated by discounting the future revenue stream groups share of identifiable net assets acquired exceeds the fair value attributable to these lists or relationships.
of the consideration, the difference is recorded as negative goodwill.
Acquired customer lists or distributor relationships are amortised.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised immediately In respect of contracts currently held, the amortisation period is in the income statement.
the period for which the group has the benefit of these assets.
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairment losses and is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
Any impairment identified is recognised iv Software immediately in the income statement and is not reversed.
Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of property, plant and equipment, the software is capitalised as an The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of associates and joint intangible asset.
ventures is included in the carrying value of the investment in the associate or joint venture.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring them to use.
Direct costs Where a business combination occurs in several stages, the goodwill associated with the production of identifiable and unique internally associated with each stage is calculated using fair value information generated software products controlled by the group that will probably at the date of each additional share purchase.
generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year are capitalised.
Direct costs include software development employment h Intangible assets costs including those of contractors used, capitalised interest and Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation an appropriate portion of overheads.
Capitalised computer software, on a straight-line basis if applicable and impairment losses.
Cost is licence and development costs are amortised over their useful economic usually determined as the amount paid by the group, unless the asset lives of between three and eight years.
has been acquired as part of a business combination.
Amortisation Internally generated costs associated with maintaining computer is included within net operating expenses in the income statement.
software programmes are expensed as incurred.
Internally generated intangibles are not recognised except for software and applied development costs referred to under software and research v Research and development and development below.
Research and general development expenditure is written off in Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their estimated the period in which it is incurred.
useful economic lives, and only tested for impairment where there is a Certain applied development costs are only capitalised as internally triggering event.
The group regularly reviews all of its amortisation rates generated intangible assets where there is a clearly defined project, and residual values to take account of any changes in circumstances.
separately identifiable expenditure, an outcome assessed with The directors assessment of the useful life of intangible assets is based reasonable certainty in terms of feasibility and commerciality, on the nature of the asset acquired, the durability of the products to expected revenues exceed expected costs and the group has the which the asset attaches and the expected future impact of competition resources to complete the task.
Such assets are amortised on a on the business.
straight-line basis over their useful lives once the project is complete.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are recognised separately when they are identifiable, it is probable that i Property, plant and equipment economic benefits will flow to the group and the fair value can be Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost net of accumulated measured reliably.
depreciation and any impairment losses.
i Brands recognised as part of a business combination Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition Brands are recognised as an intangible asset where the brand has of the assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying a long-term value.
Acquired brands are only recognised where title value or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate, only when it is clear or the brand could be sold separately from the rest of the is probable that future economic benefits associated with the specific business and the earnings attributable to it are separately identifiable.
asset will flow to the group and the cost can be measured reliably.
The group typically arrives at the cost of such brands on a relief from Repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement royalty basis.
during the financial period in which they are incurred.
In respect of brands currently held i Assets in the course of construction the amortisation period is 10 to 40 years, being the period for which Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any the group has exclusive rights to those brands.
Cost includes professional fees and for qualifying assets certain borrowing costs as determined below.
When these ii Contract brewing and other licences recognised as part assets are ready for their intended use, they are transferred into the of a business combination appropriate category.
At this point, depreciation commences on the Contractual arrangements for contract brewing and competitor licensing same basis as on other property, plant and equipment.
arrangements are recognised as an intangible asset at a fair value representing the remaining contractual period with an assumption about the expectation that such a contract will be renewed, together with a valuation of this extension.
Contractual arrangements and relationships with customers and distributors are also valued on a similar basis.
Acquired licences or contracts are amortised.
In respect of licences or contracts currently held, the amortisation period is the period for which the group has exclusive rights to these assets or income streams.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 79 1.
Accounting policies continued ii Assets held under finance leases j Advance payments made to customers principally Assets held under finance leases which result in the group bearing hotels, restaurants, bars and clubs substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are Advance payments made to customers are conditional on the capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
Finance lease assets are achievement of contracted sales targets or marketing commitments.
initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value The group records such payments as prepayments initially at fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception and are amortised in the income statement over the relevant period to of the lease, then depreciated over the lower of the lease term or their which the customer commitment is made typically three to five years.
The capital element of future obligations under the leases These prepayments are recorded net of any impairment losses.
is included as a liability in the balance sheet classified, as appropriate, Where there is a volume target the amortised cost of the advance is as a current or non-current liability.
The interest element of the lease included in sales discounts as a reduction to revenue and where there obligations is charged to the income statement over the period of are specific marketing activities commitments the cost is included the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remaining as an operating expense.
The amounts capitalised are reassessed balance of the obligation for each financial period.
annually for achievement of targets and are impaired where there is objective evidence that the targets will not be achieved.
iii Returnable containers Returnable containers in circulation are recorded within property, Assets held at customer premises are included within plant, property plant and equipment at cost net of accumulated depreciation less and equipment and are depreciated in line with group policies on any impairment loss.
Depreciation of returnable bottles and containers is recorded k Inventories to write the containers off over the course of their economic life.
This is typically undertaken in a two stage process: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition, and net realisable value, The excess over deposit value is written down over a period of as follows: 1 to 10 years.
Raw materials, consumables and goods for resale: Purchase cost Provisions are made against the deposit values for breakages and net of discounts and rebates on a first-in first-out basis FIFO.
loss in trade together with a design obsolescence provision held to write off the deposit value over the expected bottle design period Finished goods and work in progress: Raw material cost plus direct which is a period of no more than 14 years from the inception of costs and a proportion of manufacturing overhead expenses on a a bottle design.
This period is shortened where appropriate by FIFO basis.
reference to market dynamics and the ability of the entity to use Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less further bottles for different brands.
costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Costs of inventories include the transfer from equity of any gains or losses on iv Depreciation matured qualifying cash flow hedges of purchases of raw materials.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets in the course of construction.
In respect of all other plant, property and equipment, l Financial assets and financial liabilities depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates calculated to Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recorded at fair value write off the cost, less the estimated residual value, of each asset over plus any directly attributable transaction costs, except in the case of its expected useful life as follows: those classified at fair value through profit or loss.
For those financial Freehold buildings 20 50 years instruments that are not subsequently held at fair value, the group Leasehold buildings Shorter of the lease term assesses whether there is any objective evidence of impairment at or 50 years each balance sheet date.
Plant, vehicles and systems 2 30 years Financial assets are recognised when the group has rights or other Returnable containers access to economic benefits.
Such assets consist of cash, equity non-returnable containers instruments, a contractual right to receive cash or another financial are recorded as inventory 1 14 years asset, or a contractual right to exchange financial instruments with Assets held under finance leases Lower of the lease term another entity on potentially favourable terms.
Financial assets are or life of the asset derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from the asset The group regularly reviews all of its depreciation rates and residual have expired or have been transferred and the group has transferred values to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When setting substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
useful economic lives, the principal factors the group takes into account Financial liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation to transfer are the expected rate of technological developments, expected market benefits and that obligation is a contractual liability to deliver cash requirements for the equipment and the intensity at which the assets or another financial asset or to exchange financial instruments with are expected to be used.
another entity on potentially unfavourable terms.
Financial liabilities The profit or loss on the disposal of an asset is the difference between are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is discharged, the disposal proceeds and the net book amount.
If a legally enforceable right exists to set off recognised amounts of v Capitalisation of borrowing costs financial assets and liabilities, which are in determinable monetary Financing costs incurred, before tax, on major capital projects during amounts, and there is the intention to settle net, the relevant financial the period of development or construction that necessarily take a assets and liabilities are offset.
substantial period of time to be developed for their intended use, are capitalised up to the time of completion of the project.
Interest costs are charged to the income statement in the year in which they accrue.
Premiums or discounts arising from the difference between the net proceeds of financial instruments purchased or issued and the amounts receivable or repayable at maturity are included in the effective interest calculation and taken to net finance costs over the life of the instrument.
80 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued There are four categories of financial assets and financial liabilities.
iii Available for sale investments These are described as follows: Available for sale investments are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified as financial i Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value assets at fair value through profit or loss, or loans and receivables.
through profit or loss Investments in this category are included in non-current assets unless Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months loss include derivative assets and derivative liabilities not designated of the balance sheet date.
They are initially recognised at fair value as effective hedging instruments.
plus transaction costs and are subsequently remeasured at fair value and tested for impairment.
Gains and losses arising from changes All gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial in fair value including any related foreign exchange movements are assets or financial liabilities within this category are recognised in recognised in other comprehensive income.
On disposal or impairment the income statement.
of available for sale investments, any gains or losses in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement.
Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are financial instruments Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the date on whose value changes in response to an underlying variable, require which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments little or no initial investment and are settled in the future.
are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the group These include derivatives embedded in host contracts.
Such has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
embedded derivatives need not be accounted for separately if the host contract is already fair valued: if it is not considered as iv Financial liabilities held at amortised cost a derivative if it was freestanding: or if it can be demonstrated that Financial liabilities held at amortised cost include trade payables, it is closely related to the host contract.
There are certain currency accruals, amounts owed to associates trade, amounts owed to exemptions which the group has applied to these rules which limit joint ventures trade, other payables and borrowings.
the need to account for certain potential embedded foreign exchange derivatives.
These are: if a contract is denominated in the functional a.
Trade payables currency of either party: where that currency is commonly used in Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently international trade of the good traded: or if it is commonly used for measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Trade local transactions in an economic environment.
payables are analysed between current and non-current liabilities on Derivative financial assets and liabilities are analysed between current the face of the balance sheet, depending on when the obligation to and non-current assets and liabilities on the face of the balance sheet, settle will be realised.
depending on when they are expected to mature.
Borrowings For derivatives that have not been designated to a hedging Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction relationship, all fair value movements are recognised immediately in costs and are subsequently stated at amortised cost and include the income statement.
See note x for the groups accounting policy accrued interest and prepaid interest.
Borrowings are classified as on hedge accounting.
current liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the balance sheet ii Loans and receivables date.
Borrowings classified as hedged items are subject to hedge Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or accounting requirements see note x.
Bank overdrafts are shown determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market.
They within borrowings in current liabilities and are included within cash arise when the group provides money, goods or services directly to and cash equivalents on the face of the cash flow statement as a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included they form an integral part of the groups cash management.
in current assets, except for maturities of greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
m Impairment Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value including This policy covers all assets except inventories see note k, financial originating fees and transaction costs, and subsequently measured assets see note l, non-current assets classified as held for sale at amortised cost using the effective interest method less provision for see note n, and deferred tax assets see note u. impairment.
Loans and receivables include trade receivables, amounts owed by associates trade, amounts owed by joint ventures trade, Impairment reviews are performed by comparing the carrying value accrued income and cash and cash equivalents.
of the non-current asset to its recoverable amount, being the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Trade receivables costs to sell is considered to be the amount that could be obtained Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently on disposal of the asset.
Value in use is determined by discounting measured at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
the future post-tax cash flows generated from continuing use of the CGU using a post-tax discount rate, as this closely approximates A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when to applying pre-tax discount rates to pre-tax cash flows.
Where a there is objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all potential impairment is identified using post-tax cash flows and postamounts due according to the terms of the receivables.
The amount tax discount rates, the impairment review is reperformed on a pre-tax of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying value basis in order to determine the impairment loss to be recorded.
and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
This provision is recognised in Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent the income statement.
from the cash flows of other assets, the group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit CGU to which the b.
Cash and cash equivalents asset belongs.
For the purpose of conducting impairment reviews, In the consolidated balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents includes CGUs are considered to be groups of assets that have separately cash in hand, bank deposits repayable on demand and other shortidentifiable cash flows.
They also include those assets and liabilities term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months directly involved in producing the income and a suitable proportion or less.
In the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash of those used to produce more than one income stream.
equivalents also includes bank overdrafts which are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 81 1.
Accounting policies continued An impairment loss is held firstly against any specifically impaired r Revenue recognition assets.
Where an impairment is recognised against a CGU, the i Sale of goods and services impairment is first taken against goodwill balances and if there is a Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or receivable remaining loss it is set against the remaining intangible and tangible for goods and services provided to third parties and is recognised assets on a pro-rata basis.
when the risks and rewards of ownership are substantially transferred.
Should circumstances or events change and give rise to a reversal The group presents revenue gross of excise duties because unlike of a previous impairment loss, the reversal is recognised in the income value added tax, excise is not directly related to the value of sales.
It is statement in the period in which it occurs and the carrying value of not generally recognised as a separate item on invoices, increases in the asset is increased.
The increase in the carrying value of the asset excise are not always directly passed on to customers, and the group is restricted to the amount that it would have been had the original cannot reclaim the excise where customers do not pay for product impairment not occurred.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill received.
The group therefore considers excise as a cost to the group are irreversible.
and reflects it as a production cost.
Consequently, any excise that is Goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
Assets subject to amortisation recovered in the sale price is included in revenue.
are reviewed for impairment if circumstances or events change to Revenue excludes value added tax.
It is stated net of price discounts, indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
promotional discounts, settlement discounts and after an appropriate amount has been provided to cover the sales value of credit notes n Non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale yet to be issued that relate to the current and prior periods.
Non-current assets and all assets and liabilities classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less The same recognition criteria also apply to the sale of by-products and costs to sell.
waste such as spent grain, malt dust and yeast with the exception that these are included within other income.
Such assets are classified as held for resale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through ii Interest income continued use.
This condition is regarded as met only when a sale is Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis using the effective highly probable, the asset or disposal group is available for immediate interest method.
sale in its present condition and when management is committed to the sale which is expected to qualify for recognition as a completed When a receivable is impaired the group reduces the carrying amount sale within one year from date of classification.
to its recoverable amount by discounting the estimated future cash flows at the original effective interest rate, and continuing to unwind o Provisions the discount as interest income.
Provisions are recognised when there is a present obligation, whether iii Royalty income legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the with the relevant agreements and is included in other income.
obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Such provisions are calculated on a discounted basis iv Dividend income where the effect is material to the original undiscounted provision.
The Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment carrying amount of the provision increases in each period to reflect the is established.
passage of time and the unwinding of the discount and the movement is recognised in the income statement within net finance costs.
s Operating leases Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and Rentals paid and incentives received on operating leases are charged employee termination payments.
Provisions are not recognised for or credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the future operating losses, however, provisions are recognised for onerous lease term.
contracts where the unavoidable cost exceeds the expected benefit.
t Exceptional items p Share capital Where certain expense or income items recorded in a period are Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly material by their size or incidence, the group reflects such items attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as exceptional items within a separate line on the income statement as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
except for those exceptional items that relate to associates, joint ventures, net finance costs and tax.
Associates, joint ventures, net q Investments in own shares treasury and shares finance costs and tax exceptional items are only referred to in the held by employee benefit trusts notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Shares held by employee share ownership plans, employee benefit Exceptional items are also summarised in the segmental analyses, trusts and in treasury are treated as a deduction from equity until excluding those that relate to net finance costs and tax.
the shares are cancelled, reissued, or disposed.
Where certain income statement items incurred are of a capital Purchases of such shares are classified in the cash flow statement nature or are considered non-recurring or are exceptional items, the as a purchase of own shares for share trusts or purchase of own group presents alternative earnings per share calculations both on a shares for treasury within net cash from financing activities.
headline under the South African Circular 8 2007 definition and on Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration an adjusted basis.
received, net of any directly attributable incremental costs and related tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the companys equity u Taxation shareholders.
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Current tax expense is based on the results for the period as adjusted iii Profit-sharing and bonus plans for items that are not taxable or not deductible.
The groups liability for The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and current taxation is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been profit-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
the profit attributable to the companys shareholders after certain adjustments.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method, in respect of all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and The group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial statements, there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
At a except where the temporary difference arises from goodwill in the mid-year point an accrual is maintained for the appropriate proportion case of deferred tax liabilities or from the initial recognition other than of the expected bonuses which would become payable at the year end.
a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit.
iv Share-based compensation The group operates a variety of equity-settled, share-based Deferred tax liabilities are recognised where the carrying value of compensation plans.
These comprise share option plans with an asset is greater than its tax base, or where the carrying value of and without non-market performance conditions attached and a a liability is less than its tax base.
Deferred tax is recognised in full on performance share award plan with market performance conditions temporary differences arising from investment in subsidiaries, associates attached.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the award granted after 7 November 2002 over the vesting period on a temporary difference is controlled by the group and it is probable straight-line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
A corresponding adjustment is made to equity This includes taxation in respect of the retained earnings of overseas over the remaining vesting period.
The estimate of the level of vesting subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends is reviewed at least annually, with any impact on the cumulative have been accrued as receivable or a binding agreement to distribute charge being recognised immediately.
The charge is based on the past earnings in future periods has been entered into by the subsidiary.
fair value of the award as at the date of grant, as calculated by Deferred income tax is also recognised in respect of the unremitted various binomial model calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
retained earnings of overseas associates and joint ventures as the group is not able to determine when such earnings will be remitted and The charge is not reversed if the options are not exercised because when such additional tax such as withholding taxes might be payable.
the market value of the shares is lower than the option price at the date of grant.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it is probable The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium differences including carried forward tax losses can be utilised.
when the options are exercised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates expected to apply in the periods v Pension obligations in which the timing differences are expected to reverse based on tax The group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at v Dividend distributions the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs.
The defined benefit Dividend distributions to equity holders of the parent are recognised obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the as a liability in the groups financial statements in the period in which projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash dividends are recognised when paid.
Dividends declared after the outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are balance sheet date are not recognised, as there is no present denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and obligation at the balance sheet date.
that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
w Employee benefits Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and i Wages and salaries changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full as they arise Wages and salaries for current employees are recognised in outside of the income statement and are charged or credited to equity the income statement as the employees services are rendered.
in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise, with the exception of gains or losses arising from changes in the benefits ii Vacation and long-term service awards costs regarding past services, which are recognised in the income statement.
The group recognises a liability and an expense for accrued vacation pay when such benefits are earned and not when these benefits are paid.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on The group also recognises a liability and an expense for long-term the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the service awards where cash is paid to the employee at certain milestone vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on dates in a career with the group.
Such accruals are appropriately a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
discounted to reflect the future payment dates at discount rates determined by reference to local high-quality corporate bonds.
The contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as an expense as the costs become payable.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 83 1.
Accounting policies continued vi Other post-employment obligations ii Cash flow hedges Some group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to Cash flow hedges comprise derivative financial instruments designated qualifying employees.
The expected costs of these benefits are assessed in a hedging relationship to manage currency and interest rate risk to in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries and contributions which the cash flows of certain liabilities are exposed.
The effective are made to the relevant funds over the expected service lives of the portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative that is designated employees entitled to those funds.
Actuarial gains and losses arising and qualifies for hedge accounting is recognised in other comprehensive from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions income.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income are recognised in full as they arise outside the income statement and statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in statement in the period in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
the period in which they arise.
These obligations are valued annually However, where a forecasted transaction results in a non-financial by independent qualified actuaries.
asset or liability, the accumulated fair value movements previously deferred in equity are included in the initial cost of the asset or liability.
vii Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before iii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary Hedges of net investments in foreign operations comprise either foreign redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The group recognises currency borrowings or derivatives typically forward exchange contracts termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to terminating and cross currency swaps designated in a hedging relationship.
the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal Gains or losses on hedging instruments that are regarded as highly plan without possibility of withdrawal, or providing termination benefits effective are recognised in other comprehensive income.
These largely as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
offset foreign currency gains or losses arising on the translation of net Benefits falling due more than 12 months after balance sheet date investments that are recorded in equity, in the foreign currency translation are discounted to present value in a similar manner to all long-term reserve.
The ineffective portion of gains or losses on hedging instruments employee benefits.
is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are only reclassified to the income statement x Derivative financial instruments hedge accounting upon disposal of the net investment.
Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit Where a derivative ceases to meet the criteria of being a hedging or loss include all derivative financial instruments.
The derivative instrument or the underlying exposure which it is hedging is sold, instruments used by the group, which are used solely for hedging matures or is extinguished, hedge accounting is discontinued and purposes i. e. to offset foreign exchange and interest rate risks, amounts previously recorded in equity are reclassified to the income comprise interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward statement.
A similar treatment is applied where the hedge is of a foreign exchange contracts.
Such derivative instruments are used future transaction and that transaction is no longer likely to occur.
to alter the risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the group When the hedge is discontinued due to ineffectiveness, hedge in line with the groups risk management policies.
The group also has accounting is discontinued prospectively.
derivatives embedded in other contracts primarily cross border foreign currency supply contracts for raw materials.
Certain derivative instruments, while providing effective economic hedges under the groups policies, are not designated as hedges.
Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a derivative Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair not qualify or have not been designated as hedges are recognised value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends immediately in the income statement.
The group does not hold on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
if so, the nature of the hedging relationship.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the group is required to y Deposits by customers document at inception, the relationship between the hedged item Returnable bottles and containers in circulation are recorded within and the hedging instrument as well as its risk management objectives property, plant and equipment and a corresponding liability is recorded and strategy for undertaking hedging transactions.
The group is also in respect of the obligation to repay the customers deposits.
Deposits required to document and demonstrate that the relationship between paid by customers for branded returnable containers are reflected in the hedged item and the hedging instrument will be highly effective.
the balance sheet within current liabilities.
Any estimated liability that This effectiveness test is reperformed at each period end to ensure may arise in respect of deposits for unbranded containers and bottles that the hedge has remained and will continue to remain highly effective.
The group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value z Earnings per share hedge : hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or commitments Basic earnings per share represents the profit on ordinary activities cash flow hedge : or hedges of net investments in foreign operations after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent entity, net investment hedge.
divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, less the weighted average number of ordinary shares i Fair value hedges held in the groups employee benefit trust and in treasury during the year.
Fair value hedges comprise derivative financial instruments designated Diluted earnings per share represents the profit on ordinary activities in a hedging relationship to manage the groups interest rate risk to after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders, divided by the which the fair value of certain assets and liabilities are exposed.
Changes weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the in the fair value of the derivative offset the relevant changes in the fair year, less the weighted average number of ordinary shares held in the value of the underlying hedged item attributable to the hedged risk in groups employee benefit trust and in treasury during the year, plus the income statement in the period incurred.
the weighted average number of dilutive shares resulting from share Gains or losses on fair value hedges that are regarded as highly options and other potential ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
effective are recorded in the income statement together with the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Segmental analysis Operating segments reflect the management structure of the group and the way performance is evaluated and resources allocated based on group revenue and EBITA by the groups chief operating decision maker, defined as the executive directors.
The group is focused geographically and, as a result of the implementation of IFRS 8, Africa and Asia are now presented as separate segments.
Comparative information has been restated accordingly.
While not meeting the definition of reportable segments, the group reports separately as segments Asia, South Africa Hotels and Gaming and Corporate as this provides useful additional information.
The segmental information presented below includes the reconciliation of GAAP measures presented on the face of the income statement to non-GAAP measures which are used by management to analyse the groups performance.
Income statement Group Group revenue EBITA revenue EBITA 2010 2010 2009 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 5,905 1,386 5,495 1,173 Europe 5,577 872 6,145 944 North America 5,228 619 5,227 581 Africa 2,716 565 2,567 562 Asia 1,741 71 1,565 80 South Africa: 5,183 1,007 4,303 886 Beverages 4,777 885 3,955 764 Hotels and Gaming 406 122 348 122 Corporate 139 97 Group 26,350 4,381 25,302 4,129 Amortisation of intangible assets excluding software group and share of associates and joint ventures 199 200 Exceptional items group and share of associates and joint ventures 507 69 Net finance costs group and share of associates and joint ventures excluding exceptional items 586 751 Share of associates and joint ventures taxation 118 113 Share of associates and joint ventures minority interests 42 38 Profit before tax 2,929 2,958 Group revenue including associates and joint ventures With the exception of South Africa Hotels and Gaming, all reportable segments derive their revenues from the sale of beverages.
Revenues are derived from a large number of customers which are internationally dispersed, with no customers being individually material.
Segmental analysis continued Operating profit The following table provides a reconciliation of operating profit to operating profit before exceptional items.
Operating Operating profit before profit before Operating Exceptional exceptional Operating Exceptional exceptional profit items items profit items items 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 1,114 156 1,270 1,102 45 1,057 Europe 638 202 840 448 452 900 North America 12 12 639 409 230 Africa 313 3 316 354 354 Asia 34 34 2 2 South Africa: Beverages 773 53 826 704 704 Corporate 197 58 139 97 97 Group 2,619 472 3,091 3,148 2 3,146 EBITA segment result This comprises operating profit before exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets excluding software and includes the groups share of associates and joint ventures operating profit on a similar basis.
The following table provides a reconciliation of operating profit before exceptional items to EBITA.
Share of Amortisation of Share of Amortisation of associates and intangible assets associates and intangible assets joint ventures excluding joint ventures excluding Operating operating software group Operating operating software group profit before profit before and share of profit before profit before and share of exceptional exceptional associates and exceptional exceptional associates and items items joint ventures EBITA items items joint ventures EBITA 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 1,270 116 1,386 1,057 1 115 1,173 Europe 840 3 29 872 900 4 40 944 North America 12 562 45 619 230 314 37 581 Africa 316 248 1 565 354 208 562 Asia 34 98 7 71 2 75 7 80 South Africa: 826 180 1 1,007 704 181 1 886 Beverages 826 59 885 704 60 764 Hotels and Gaming 121 1 122 121 1 122 Corporate 139 139 97 97 Group 3,091 1,091 199 4,381 3,146 783 200 4,129 The groups share of associates and joint ventures operating profit is reconciled to the share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures in the income statement as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Share of associates and joint ventures operating profit before exceptional items 1,091 783 Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items 18 91 Share of associates and joint ventures net finance costs 40 25 Share of associates and joint ventures taxation 118 113 Share of associates and joint ventures minority interests 42 38 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 873 516 86 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Segmental analysis continued EBITDA The following table provides a reconciliation of EBITDA the net cash generated from operating activities before working capital movements before cash exceptional items to EBITDA after cash exceptional items.
A reconciliation of profit for the year for the group to EBITDA after cash exceptional items for the group can be found in note 27a.
EBITDA EBITDA before cash Cash before cash Cash exceptional exceptional exceptional exceptional items items EBITDA items items EBITDA 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 1,710 92 1,618 1,418 19 1,399 Europe 1,203 144 1,059 1,239 6 1,233 1 North America 15 15 244 24 220 Africa 412 3 409 415 415 Asia 3 3 26 26 South Africa: Beverages 984 42 942 883 883 Corporate 8 58 66 12 12 Group 4,313 339 3,974 4,213 49 4,164 1 EBITDA excludes the results of associates and joint ventures and hence the decline in EBITDA for North America is due to the US and Puerto Rico operations of the Miller business being contributed into the MillerCoors joint venture during the prior year.
Other segmental information Capital Capital expenditure expenditure excluding excluding investment Investment investment Investment 1 2 1 2 activity activity Total activity activity Total 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 357 13 344 552 113 439 Europe 346 8 354 753 197 950 North America 317 317 38 378 416 Africa 524 84 608 416 49 465 Asia 48 36 84 86 37 123 South Africa: 210 63 273 285 285 Beverages 210 210 285 285 Hotels and Gaming 6363 Corporate 43 6 49 17 17 Group 1,528 501 2,029 2,147 548 2,695 1 Capital expenditure includes additions of intangible assets excluding goodwill and property, plant and equipment.
2 Investment activity includes acquisitions and disposals of businesses, net investments in associates and joint ventures, purchases of shares in minorities and purchases and disposals of available for sale investments.
Depreciation and amortisation 2010 2009 US$m US$m Latin America 444 406 Europe 330 349 North America 31 Africa 94 61 Asia 28 25 South Africa: Beverages 169 145 Corporate 19 16 Group 1,084 1,033 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 87 2.
Segmental analysis continued Geographical information The UK is regarded as being the groups country of domicile.
Those countries which account for more than 10% of the groups total revenue and or non-current assets are considered individually material and are reported separately below.
Non-current assets by location exclude amounts relating to derivative financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
88 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Net operating expenses 2010 2009 US$m US$m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 4,565 5,203 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 34 69 Raw materials and consumables used 4,531 5,134 1 Excise duties 3,825 3,820 Employee benefits costs see note 6a 1,985 1,940 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 881 829 Owned assets 649 621 Under finance lease 6 5 Containers 226 203 Profit on disposal of available for sale investments 2 Profit on disposal of businesses 526 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 39 10 Amortisation of intangible assets 203 204 Intangible assets excluding software 150 164 Software 53 40 Other expenses 4,184 4,352 Selling, marketing and distribution costs 2,054 2,281 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 295 308 Impairment of goodwill 364 Impairment of intangible assets 14 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 45 16 Impairment of trade and other receivables 43 31 Operating lease rentals land and buildings 57 65 Operating lease rentals plant, vehicles and systems 89 91 Research and development expenditure 4 7 Other operating expenses 1,597 1,175 Total net operating expenses by nature 15,680 15,832 Other income 279 277 Revenue received from royalties 35 36 Dividends received from investments 2 1 Other operating income 242 240 Net operating expenses 15,401 15,555 1 Excise duties of US$3,825 million 2009: US$3,820 million have been incurred during the year as follows: Latin America US$1,517 million 2009: US$1,383 million : Europe US$1,075 million 2009: US$1,118 million : North America US$2 million 2009: US$239 million : Africa US$282 million 2009: US$270 million : Asia US$181 million 2009: US$184 million and South Africa US$768 million 2009: US$626 million.
Foreign exchange differences recognised in the profit for the year, except for those arising on financial instruments measured at fair value under IAS 39, were a gain of US$27 million 2009: loss of US$34 million.
The following fees were paid to a number of different accounting firms as auditors of various parts of the group: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Group auditors Fees payable to the groups auditor and its associates for: Auditing of subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 8 6 Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 1 1 Other services relating to taxation 6 4 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 3 1 Other services 6 4 Fees payable to the groups auditor for auditing of the parent companys annual accounts 2 1 26 16 1 In 2010, principally relating to the business capability programme.
2010 2009 US$m US$m Other auditors Fees payable to other auditors for other services: Auditing of subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 2 1 Other services relating to taxation 2 2 Internal audit services 1 1 IT consulting services 4 1 Other services 15 3 23 7 1 In 2010, principally relating to the business capability programme.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 89 4.
Exceptional items 2010 2009 US$m US$m Exceptional items included in operating profit: Business capability programme costs 325 Impairments 45 392 Integration and restructuring costs 78 110 Transaction costs 24 Profit on disposal of businesses 526 Unwinding of fair value adjustments on inventory 9 Litigation 13 Net exceptional losses gains included within operating profit 472 2 Exceptional items included in net finance costs: Business capability programme costs 17 Gain on early termination of financial derivatives 20 Net exceptional losses gains included within net finance costs 17 20 Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items: Integration and restructuring costs 14 33 Unwinding of fair value adjustments on inventory 4 13 Impairment of intangible assets 38 Fair value losses on financial instruments 7 Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional losses 18 91 Taxation credits relating to subsidiaries and the groups share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items 64 56 Exceptional items included in operating profit Business capability programme costs Following the establishment of the business capability programme which will streamline finance, human resources and procurement activities through the deployment of global systems and, within regions, the introduction of common sales, distribution and supply chain management systems, costs of US$325 million have been incurred in the year 2009: US$nil.
Impairments During 2010, an impairment charge of US$45 million was recorded in relation to property, plant and equipment following the announcement of the closure of production facilities at the Bogota brewery in Colombia.
In 2009, goodwill impairments were recorded in respect of the Grolsch business and Sarmat in Ukraine of US$350 million and US$14 million respectively.
Other impairments principally related to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment in Ukraine of US$28 million.
Integration and restructuring costs In Europe US$64 million of integration and restructuring costs were incurred in Romania following the acquisition of Bere Azuga, including the closure of a brewery: in Poland including the closure of the Kielce brewery: in Slovakia including the closure of the Topolcany brewery: and in Italy, The Netherlands and the Canary Islands primarily associated with retrenchments.
In Latin America US$14 million was incurred in relation to restructuring following the announcement of the closure of the production facilities at the Bogota brewery in Colombia.
In 2009, US$51 million of integration and restructuring costs were incurred in Grolsch, Poland, the Czech Republic, Russia and Ukraine in Europe: US$31 million of restructuring costs were incurred in Latin America, principally in Colombia: and US$28 million of staff retention and certain integration costs were recorded in North America relating to MillerCoors.
Transaction costs During 2010, US$11 million of costs have been incurred in relation to the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment transaction in South Africa.
Additionally, costs of US$13 million were incurred in relation to transaction services and have been treated as exceptional in the Corporate division.
Profit on disposal of businesses In 2009, a profit of US$437 million arose in North America on the disposal of the US and Puerto Rico operations of the Miller business into the MillerCoors joint venture.
In Latin America a net US$89 million profit on disposal was recorded on the disposal of the water business in Colombia and the soft drinks business in Bolivia.
Unwinding of fair value adjustments on inventory On the acquisition of Grolsch inventory was fair valued to market value.
The uplift was charged to the income statement as the inventory was sold.
During 2009, US$9 million was charged to operating profit and treated as an exceptional item.
Litigation During 2009, a provision was booked in Latin America relating to ongoing litigation amounting to US$13 million.
90 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Exceptional items continued Exceptional items included in net finance costs Business capability programme costs As a result of the business capability programme and resultant changes in treasury systems used and their differing valuation methodologies, a charge of US$17 million has been incurred to reflect differences on the fair valuation of financial instruments 2009: US$nil.
Early termination of financial derivatives During 2009, a US$20 million gain arose on the early termination of financial derivatives.
Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items Integration and restructuring costs During 2010, the groups share of MillerCoors integration and restructuring costs was US$14 million, primarily related to relocation and severance costs 2009: US$33 million.
Unwinding of fair value adjustments on inventory In 2010, the groups share of MillerCoors charge to operating profit in the year relating to the unwind of the fair value adjustment to inventory was US$4 million 2009: US$13 million.
Impairment of intangible assets In 2009, this related to the groups share of the impairment of the Sparks brand recorded in MillerCoors.
Fair value losses on financial instruments In 2009, the groups share of losses related to fair value mark to market adjustments on financial instruments at Hotels and Gaming amounted to US$7 million.
Taxation credits relating to subsidiaries and the groups share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items Taxation credits of US$64 million 2009: US$56 million arose in relation to exceptional items during the year and include US$7 million 2009: US$31 million in relation to MillerCoors although the tax credit is recognised in Miller Brewing Company see note 7.
Net finance costs 2010 2009 US$m US$m a.
Interest payable and similar charges Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 162 262 Interest payable on derivatives 216 253 Interest payable on corporate bonds 389 406 Interest element of finance lease payments 1 1 Net exchange gains losses on financing activities 51 288 Fair value losses on financial instruments: 1 Fair value losses on dividend related derivatives 9 12 Fair value losses on standalone derivative financial instruments 104 27 1 Ineffectiveness of net investment hedges 8 22 1 Change in valuation methodology of financial instruments 17 Other finance charges 24 30 Total interest payable and similar charges 879 1,301 b.
Interest receivable and similar income Interest receivable 60 66 Interest receivable on derivatives 217 201 Fair value gains on financial instruments: Fair value gains on standalone derivative financial instruments 28 291 Ineffectiveness of fair value hedges 10 1 Fair value gains on dividend related derivatives 7 1 Gain on early termination of financial derivatives 20 1 Net exchange gains on dividends 9 Other finance income 2 Total interest receivable and similar income 316 595 Net finance costs 563 706 1 These items have been excluded from the determination of adjusted earnings per share.
Adjusted net finance costs are therefore US$538 million 2009: US$699 million.
Refer to note 22 Financial risk factors for interest rate risk information.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 91 6.
Employee and key management compensation costs a.
Employee costs 2010 2009 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 1,631 1,580 Share-based payments 80 79 Social security costs 168 164 Pension costs 106 99 Post-retirement benefits other than pensions 13 19 1,998 1,941 Of the US$1,998 million employee costs shown above, US$13 million has been capitalised within property, plant and equipment 2009: US$1 million.
Employee numbers The average monthly number of employees are shown on a full-time equivalent basis, excluding employees of associated and joint venture undertakings and including executive directors: 2010 2009 Number Number Latin America 24,979 24,793 Europe 15,201 15,987 North America 50 1,544 Africa 12,182 9,078 Asia 4,494 4,763 South Africa 12,885 12,184 Corporate 340 286 Group 70,131 68,635 c. Key management compensation The directors of the group and members of the executive committee excom are defined as key management.
At 31 March 2010, there were 25 2009: 23 key management.
2010 2009 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 30 23 Post-employment benefits 2 2 Share-based payments 21 14 53 39 The key management figures given above include the directors.
d. Directors 2010 2009 US$m US$m Aggregate emoluments 5,488,539 2009: 4,251,478 9 7 Aggregate gains made on the exercise of share options or vesting of share awards 29 2 Company contributions to money purchase schemes 549,600 2009: 528,000 1 1 39 10 At 31 March 2010, two directors 2009: two had retirement benefits accruing under money purchase pension schemes.
Full details of individual directors remuneration are given in the remuneration report on pages 59 to 67.
92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Taxation 2010 2009 US$m US$m Current taxation 725 670 Charge for the year UK corporation tax: US$6 million 2009: US$4 million 755 693 Adjustments in respect of prior years 30 23 Withholding taxes and other remittance taxes 77 67 Total current taxation 802 737 Deferred taxation 46 64 Charge for the year UK corporation tax: US$nil 2009: US$nil 71 81 Adjustments in respect of prior years 14 14 Rate change 11 3 Taxation expense 848 801 Tax credit charge relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: Deferred tax credit on actuarial gains and losses 10 94 Deferred tax charge credit on financial instruments 46 31 36 125 Total current tax 802 737 Total deferred tax 82 61 Total taxation 884 676 Effective tax rate % 28.5 30.2 See page 158 for the definition of the effective tax rate.
This calculation is on a basis consistent with that used in prior years and is also consistent with other group operating metrics.
MillerCoors is not a taxable entity.
The tax balances and obligations therefore remain with Miller Brewing Company as a 100% subsidiary of the group.
This subsidiarys tax charge includes tax including deferred tax on the groups share of the taxable profits of MillerCoors and includes tax in other comprehensive income on the groups share of MillerCoors taxable items included within other comprehensive income.
Tax rate reconciliation 2010 2009 US$m US$m Profit before taxation 2,929 2,958 Less: Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 873 516 2,056 2,442 Tax charge at standard UK rate of 28% 2009: 28% 576 684 Exempt income 30 39 Other incentive allowances 17 21 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 79 62 Deferred tax asset not recognised 28 55 Tax impact of MillerCoors joint venture 154 64 Withholding taxes and other remittance taxes 71 67 Other taxes 20 30 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 14 74 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 44 37 Deferred taxation rate change 11 3 Deferred taxation on unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries 8 13 Total taxation expense 848 801 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 93 8.
Earnings per share 2010 2009 US cents US cents Basic earnings per share 122.6 125.2 Diluted earnings per share 122.1 124.6 Headline earnings per share 127.3 119.0 Adjusted basic earnings per share 161.1 137.5 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 160.4 136.8 The weighted average number of shares was: 2010 2009 Millions of shares Millions of shares Ordinary shares 1,641 1,514 Treasury shares see note 25 77 7 ESOP trust ordinary shares 6 5 Basic shares 1,558 1,502 Dilutive ordinary shares from share options 6 8 Diluted shares 1,564 1,510 The calculation of diluted earnings per share excludes 6,920,802 2009: 12,793,912 share options that were non-dilutive for the year because the exercise price of the option exceeded the fair value of the shares during the year and 10,485,166 2009: 8,912,780 share awards that were non-dilutive for the year because the performance conditions attached to the share awards have not been met.
These share awards could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future.
9,932,750 share awards were granted after 31 March 2010 and before the date of signing of these financial statements.
Adjusted and headline earnings The group presents an adjusted earnings per share figure which excludes the impact of amortisation of intangible assets excluding capitalised software, certain non-recurring items and post-tax exceptional items in order to present an additional measure of performance for the years shown in the consolidated financial statements.
Adjusted earnings per share has been based on adjusted earnings for each financial year and on the same number of weighted average shares in issue as the basic earnings per share calculation.
Headline earnings per share has been calculated in accordance with the South African Circular 8 2007 entitled Headline Earnings which forms part of the listing requirements for the JSE Ltd JSE.
The adjustments made to arrive at headline earnings and adjusted earnings are as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,910 1,881 Headline adjustments Impairment of goodwill 364 Impairment of intangible assets 14 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 45 16 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 39 10 Profit on disposal of businesses 526 Profit on disposal of available for sale investments 2 Tax effects of the above items 17 4 Minority interests share of the above items 9 1 Share of joint ventures and associates headline adjustments, net of tax and minority interests 34 Headline earnings 1,984 1,788 Business capability programme costs 342 Integration and restructuring costs 41 108 Transaction costs 24 1 Net loss on fair value movements on capital items 8 27 Unwind of fair value adjustments on inventory 9 Gain on early termination of financial derivatives 20 Litigation 13 Amortisation of intangible assets excluding capitalised software 150 164 Tax effects of the above items 101 110 Minority interests share of the above items 6 4 Share of joint ventures and associates other adjustments, net of tax and minority interests 67 90 Adjusted earnings 2,509 2,065 1 This does not include all fair value movements but includes those in relation to capital items for which hedge accounting cannot be applied.
94 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
Dividends 2010 2009 US$m US$m Equity 2009 Final dividend paid: 42.0 US cents 2008: 42.0 US cents per ordinary share 654 640 2010 Interim dividend paid: 17.0 US cents 2009: 16.0 US cents per ordinary share 270 237 924 877 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend of 51.0 US cents per share in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2010, which will absorb an estimated US$812 million of shareholders funds.
If approved by shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 13 August 2010 to shareholders registered on the London and Johannesburg registers on 6 August 2010.
The total dividend per share for the year is 68.0 US cents 2009: 58.0 US cents.
On 26 February 2009, the non-voting convertible shares held by Safari Ltd were converted into ordinary shares and then acquired by the company to be held as treasury shares.
The treasury shares are not entitled to dividends.
Safari Ltd previously waived its rights to interim dividends in respect of 2009 of US$12 million.
The employees benefit trust EBT which holds shares for the various executive share incentive plans has waived its rights to dividends.
Dividends are paid between group companies out of profits available for distribution subject to, amongst other things in the case of companies incorporated in the United Kingdom, the provisions of the companies Articles of Association and the Companies Act 2006.
There are restrictions over the distribution by a company incorporated in the United Kingdom of any profits which are not generated from external cash receipts as defined in Technical Release 1 09, issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The final dividend of the company of US$654 million paid on 28 August 2009, relating to the year ended 31 March 2009 and the interim dividend of US$270 million paid on 11 December 2009, relating to the six months ended 30 September 2009, were paid out of profits available for distribution and the final dividend of the company of US$812 million proposed to be paid on 13 August 2010, relating to the year ended 31 March 2010, will be paid out of profits available for distribution.
Goodwill US$m Cost At 1 April 2008 15,133 Exchange adjustments 2,212 Arising on increase in share of subsidiary undertakings 3 Acquisitions through business combinations 123 Contributed to joint ventures 3,998 1 At 31 March 2009 9,049 Exchange adjustments 1,677 Arising on increase in share of subsidiary undertakings see note 29 1,125 Acquisitions through business combinations provisional see note 29 72 At 31 March 2010 11,923 Accumulated impairment At 1 April 2008 Exchange adjustments 31 Impairment 364 At 31 March 2009 333 Exchange adjustments 6 At 31 March 2010 339 Net book amount At 1 April 2008 15,133 1 At 31 March 2009 8,716 At 31 March 2010 11,584 1 As restated see note 28.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 95 10.
Goodwill continued 2010 Provisional goodwill arose on the acquisition through business combinations in the year of Ambo in Ethiopia, Rwenzori in Uganda, a maheu business in Zambia and Azuga in Romania, together with goodwill arising on the increase in the groups share of subsidiary undertakings primarily related to the buyout of minority interests in Poland see note 29.
The fair value exercises in respect of these business combinations have yet to be completed.
2009 Additional goodwill arose on the acquisitions of Vladpivo in Russia, Sarmat in Ukraine, Pabod in Nigeria, Voltic in Nigeria and Ghana and SABMiller Vietnam JV Company Limited in Vietnam, which occurred in the year.
The fair value exercises in respect of these acquisitions are now complete.
Goodwill arising on the formation of the MillerCoors joint venture is recorded within the investment in joint ventures.
Goodwill impairments were recorded in respect of the Grolsch business and Sarmat in Ukraine of US$350 million and US$14 million respectively.
Goodwill is monitored principally on an individual country basis and the net book value is allocated by cash generating unit CGU as follows: 1 2010 2009 US$m US$m CGUs: Latin America: Central America 830 830 Colombia 4,474 3,387 Peru 1,645 1,482 Other Latin America 204 201 Europe: Czech 933 873 Netherlands 104 103 Italy 437 428 Poland 1,331 58 Other Europe 122 91 North America 256 256 Africa 195 148 Asia: India 390 354 Other Asia 13 11 South Africa 650 494 11,584 8,716 1 As restated see note 28.
Assumptions The recoverable amount for a CGU is determined based on value in use calculations.
Value in use is determined by discounting the future post-tax cash flows generated from continuing use of the CGU using a post-tax discount rate, as this closely approximates to applying pre-tax discount rates to pre-tax cash flows.
Where a potential impairment is identified using post-tax cash flows and post-tax discount rates, the impairment review is re-performed on a pre-tax basis in order to determine the impairment loss to be recorded.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are as follows: Expected volume growth rate Cash flows are based on financial forecasts approved by management covering five-year periods and are dependent on the expected volume growth rates.
Discount rate The discount rate weighted average cost of capital is calculated using a methodology which reflects the returns from United States Treasury notes with a maturity of 20 years, and an equity risk premium adjusted for specific industry and country risks.
The group applies local post-tax discount rates to local post-tax cash flows.
Long-term growth rate Cash flows after the first five-year period were extrapolated using a long-term growth rate, in order to calculate the terminal recoverable amount.
The following table presents the key assumptions used in the value in use calculations in each of the groups operating segments: Expected volume Post-tax Long-term growth rates 20112015 discount rates growth rates Latin America 3.9%5.7% 9.0%13.9% 2.0%3.0% Europe 0.5%11.0% 8.1%10.6% 2.0%2.5% North America 4.7% 7.8% 2.5% Africa 1.6%14.9% 8.8%25.1% 3.0%7.5% Asia 9.7%12.7% 8.1%9.9% 3.0%7.0% South Africa 4.1% 9.8% 3.0% 96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Goodwill continued Impairment reviews results As a result of the annual impairment reviews, no impairment losses have been recognised in the year.
In 2009 total impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs were as follows: US$m Netherlands 350 Ukraine 42 392 Netherlands The Grolsch business was acquired in February 2008 for total consideration of US$1,201 million.
The impairment loss of US$350 million arose principally due to deterioration in forecast trading conditions in both The Netherlands, which was impacted by excise increases and the introduction of a smoking ban, and in export markets.
The impairment loss was allocated to goodwill.
Ukraine A total impairment loss of US$42 million was recognised in respect of CJSC Sarmat in Ukraine which was acquired in July 2008.
Subsequent to the acquisition, the business did not perform as expected as the Ukrainian economy suffered a significant downturn from which it was expected to take a significant amount of time to recover.
The impairment loss was allocated to goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
Sensitivities to assumptions The groups impairment reviews are sensitive to changes in the key assumptions described above.
Based on the groups sensitivity analysis, a reasonably possible change in a single assumption will not cause an impairment loss in any of the groups CGUs.
Intangible assets Computer Brands software Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2008 5,148 417 71 5,636 Exchange adjustments 1,019 51 2 1,072 Additions separately acquired 28 44 1 73 Acquisitions through business combinations 41 1 42 Contributed to joint ventures 215 149 364 Transfers 7 7 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 13 2 15 Transfers to other assets 13 13 Disposals 9 9 1 At 31 March 2009 3,974 269 65 4,308 Exchange adjustments 718 39 2 759 Additions separately acquired 92 1 93 Acquisitions through business combinations see note 29 32 1 33 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 30 2 32 At 31 March 2010 4,724 430 71 5,225 Aggregate amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2008 353 241 6 600 Exchange adjustments 92 25 117 Amortisation 148 40 16 204 Contributed to joint ventures 27 105 132 Impairment 14 14 Disposals 3 3 At 31 March 2009 393 151 22 566 Exchange adjustments 80 19 3 102 Amortisation 144 53 6 203 At 31 March 2010 617 223 31 871 Net book amount At 1 April 2008 4,795 176 65 5,036 1 At 31 March 2009 3,581 118 43 3,742 At 31 March 2010 4,107 207 40 4,354 1 As restated see note 28.
During 2010, no impairment charge in respect of intangible assets was incurred 2009: impairment charge of US$14 million was incurred in respect of intangible assets in Ukraine.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 97 11.
Intangible assets continued At 31 March 2010, significant individual brands included within the carrying value of intangible assets are as follows: Amortisation 2010 2009 period remaining US$m US$m years Brand carrying value Aguila Colombia 1,533 1,187 35 Cristal Peru 643 596 35 Grolsch Netherlands 482 485 38 12.
Included in land and buildings is freehold land with a cost of US$624 million 2009: US$554 million which is not depreciated.
98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Property, plant and equipment continued Included in plant, vehicles and systems are the following amounts relating to assets held under finance leases: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Net book amount 20 28 Included in the amounts above are the following amounts in respect of borrowing costs capitalised: 2010 2009 US$m US$m At beginning of year 31 26 Exchange adjustments 5 5 Amortised during the year 3 4 Capitalised during the year 25 14 At end of year 58 31 Borrowing costs of US$25 million 2009: US$14 million were capitalised during the year at an effective rate of 9.93% 2009: 13.47%.
It is anticipated that of the borrowing costs capitalised during the year, potentially US$9 million 2009: US$3 million will be available for tax relief.
Borrowings are secured by various of the groups property, plant and equipment with an aggregate net book value of US$207 million 2009: US$146 million.
Investments in joint ventures A list of the groups significant investments in joint ventures, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 33 to the consolidated financial statements.
US$m At 1 April 2008 Exchange adjustments 10 1 Reclassification from investments in associates 30 Formation of the MillerCoors joint venture 5,804 Investments in joint ventures 235 Share of results retained 225 Share of losses recognised in other comprehensive income 335 Dividends received 454 At 31 March 2009 5,495 Exchange adjustments 11 Investments in joint ventures 353 Share of results retained 536 Share of gains recognised in other comprehensive income 134 Dividends received 707 At 31 March 2010 5,822 1 As a result of SABMiller entering the MillerCoors joint venture, joint ventures became a material item in the groups financial statements.
This meant that investments in immaterial joint ventures previously classified as investments in associates were reclassified as investments in joint ventures.
The initial cost of investment for the MillerCoors joint venture included 58% of the carrying value of net assets of the US and Puerto Rico operations contributed by Miller and 58% of the fair value of the business contributed by Coors Brewing Company.
See note 29 for further information relating to the net assets contributed to the joint venture by Miller in the prior year.
Summarised financial information for the groups interest in joint ventures is shown below: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Revenue 5,168 3,708 Expenses 4,631 3,483 Profit after tax 537 225 Non-current assets 5,842 5,631 Current assets 649 625 Current liabilities 564 639 Non-current liabilities 722 782 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 99 14.
Investments in associates A list of the groups significant investments in associates, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 33 to the consolidated financial statements.
US$m At 1 April 2008 1,826 Exchange adjustments 142 Reclassification to investments in joint ventures 30 Investments in associates 4 Repayment of investments by associates 3 Share of results retained 291 Share of gains recognised in other comprehensive income 5 Dividends received 151 Transfer to subsidiary undertaking 13 At 31 March 2009 1,787 Exchange adjustments 90 Investments in associates 76 Repayment of investments by associates 3 Share of results retained 337 Share of gains recognised in other comprehensive income 2 Dividends received 109 Transfer from other assets 33 At 31 March 2010 2,213 2010 On 12 October 2009, SABSA Holdings Pty Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of the group, subscribed for R490 million US$63 million preference shares in Tsogo Sun Gaming Pty Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of the groups associate, Tsogo Sun Holdings Ltd TSH, as the groups share of the funding for the 30% increase in the TSH groups effective interest in Tsogo Sun KwaZulu-Natal Pty Ltd, the licensee and operator of the Suncoast Casino in Durban.
2009 The groups interest in Pacific Beverages Pty Ltd in Australia was classified as a joint venture, following the formation of the MillerCoors joint venture.
On 20 March 2009, the remaining 50% equity investment in SABMiller Vietnam JV Company Limited Vietnam was purchased and from this date the company has been accounted for as a subsidiary.
The analysis of associated undertakings between listed and unlisted investments is shown below: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Listed 189 121 Unlisted 2,024 1,666 2,213 1,787 The market value of listed investments included above is: Distell Group Ltd 547 318 Delta Corporation Limited 126 Summarised financial information for associates for total assets, total liabilities, revenue and profit or loss on a 100% basis is shown below: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Total assets 10,020 8,518 Total liabilities 3,745 2,873 Revenue 9,363 8,370 Net profit 1,321 1,084 Delta Corporation Limited, a listed associate undertaking of the group which operates in Zimbabwe, was restricted from paying dividends or exporting capital due to foreign currency shortages, and as such the market value of its listed shares was not included above in the prior year.
Following the easing of certain of the restrictions during the year, the market value at 31 March 2010 has been included above.
Some of the groups investments in associated undertakings which operate in African countries are also subject to local exchange control regulations.
These local exchange control regulations provide for restrictions on exporting capital from those countries, other than through normal dividends.
100 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Available for sale investments US$m At 1 April 2008 53 Exchange adjustments 5 Additions 14 Contributed to joint ventures 10 Disposals 4 Net losses transferred to other comprehensive income 8 At 31 March 2009 40 Exchange adjustments 5 Additions 6 Transfer to subsidiary undertaking see note 29 11 Disposals 12 Net gains transferred to other comprehensive income 4 At 31 March 2010 32 2010 2009 US$m US$m Analysed as: Non-current 31 29 Current 1 11 32 40 None of the available for sale investments are past due or impaired.
Available for sale investments are denominated in the following currencies: 2010 2009 US$m US$m SA rand 14 6 US dollars 9 12 Peruvian nuevo sol 3 8 Other currencies 6 14 32 40 An analysis of available for sale investments between listed and unlisted is shown below: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Listed 4 19 Unlisted 28 21 32 40 The fair values of unlisted investments are based on cash flows discounted using a rate based on the market interest rate and the risk premium specific to unlisted securities, or by reference to valuations provided by third party investment managers.
The fair value of listed investments have been determined by reference to quoted stock exchanges.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the securities classified as available for sale.
Inventories 1 2010 2009 US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 760 672 Work in progress 146 135 Finished goods and goods for resale 389 434 1,295 1,241 1 As restated see note 28.
The following amount of inventories are expected to be utilised after 12 months: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 22 34 Work in progress 1 Finished goods and goods for resale 6 22 41 There were no borrowings secured on the inventories of the group 2009: US$nil.
An impairment charge of US$20 million was recognised in respect of inventories during the year 2009: US$nil.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 101 17.
Trade and other receivables 2010 2009 US$m US$m Trade receivables 1,411 1,177 Less: provision for impairment 156 121 Trade receivables net 1,255 1,056 Other receivables 406 499 Less: provision for impairment 11 10 Other receivables net 395 489 Amounts owed by associates trade 3 27 Amounts owed by joint ventures trade 4 2 Prepayments and accrued income 125 127 Total trade and other receivables 1,782 1,701 Analysed as: Current Trade receivables net 1,244 1,053 Other receivables net 291 386 Amounts owed by associates trade 3 27 Amounts owed by joint ventures trade 4 2 Prepayments and accrued income 123 108 1,665 1,576 Non-current Trade receivables net 11 3 Other receivables net 104 103 Prepayments and accrued income 2 19 117 125 The net carrying values of trade and other receivables are considered a close approximation of their fair values.
At 31 March 2010, trade and other receivables of US$405 million 2009: US$356 million were past due but not impaired.
These relate to customers of whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing of these trade and other receivables is shown below: Past due Fully Within Over performing 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-180 days 180 days 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade receivables 875 183 51 33 37 47 Other receivables 192 21 10 9 3 11 Amounts owed by associates trade 3 Amounts owed by joint ventures trade 4 Past due Fully Within Over performing 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-180 days 180 days 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade receivables 674 154 41 26 34 35 Other receivables 163 33 6 11 1 15 Amounts owed by associates trade 27 Amounts owed by joint ventures trade 2 The group holds collateral as security for past due trade receivables to the value of US$52 million 2009: US$49 million and for past due other receivables of US$nil 2009: US$16 million.
At 31 March 2010, trade receivables of US$185 million 2009: US$213 million were determined to be specifically impaired and provided for.
The amount of the provision at 31 March 2010 was US$156 million 2009: US$121 million and reflects trade receivables from customers which are considered to be experiencing difficult economic situations.
It was assessed that a portion of these receivables is expected to be recovered.
The group holds collateral as security against specifically impaired trade receivables with a fair value of US$6 million 2009: US$1 million.
At 31 March 2010, other receivables of US$12 million 2009: US$13 million were determined to be specifically impaired and provided for.
The amount of the provision at 31 March 2010 was US$11 million 2009: US$10 million and reflects loans to customers who are considered to be experiencing difficult economic situations.
The group did not hold collateral as security against specifically impaired other receivables at 31 March 2010 or 31 March 2009.
Collateral held primarily includes bank guarantees, charges over assets and concurrent amounts owing to associates.
102 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Trade and other receivables continued The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2010 2009 US$m US$m SA rand 366 217 US dollars 189 212 Euro 342 370 Colombian peso 123 93 British pound 42 93 Other currencies 720 716 1,782 1,701 Movements on the provision for impairment of trade receivables and other receivables are as follows: Trade receivables Other receivables 2010 2009 2010 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 121 148 10 42 Provision for receivables impairment 42 28 1 3 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 21 26 2 1 Contributed to joint ventures 42 Transfers 9 Exchange adjustments 14 29 2 1 At 31 March 156 121 11 10 The creation of provisions for impaired receivables is included in net operating expenses in the income statement see note 3.
Cash and cash equivalents 1 2010 2009 US$m US$m Short-term deposits 278 46 Cash at bank and in hand 501 376 779 422 1 As restated see note 28.
Cash and short-term deposits of US$105 million 2009: US$118 million are held in African countries including South Africa and are subject to local exchange control regulations.
The group operates notional cash pools.
The structures facilitate interest and balance compensation of cash and bank overdrafts.
These notional pooling arrangements meet the set-off rules under IFRS and, as a result, the cash and overdraft balances have been reported net on the balance sheet as at 31 March 2010.
As at 31 March 2009 the pooling arrangement did not meet the set-off rules under IFRS, and as a result, the cash and bank overdraft balances were reported gross on the balance sheet.
On a netted pro forma basis, cash and cash equivalents and overdraft balances would have been US$9 million lower, resulting in US$413 million cash and cash equivalents and US$291 million overdraft balances.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 103 19.
Trade and other payables 1 2010 2009 US$m US$m Trade payables 1,058 789 Accruals 695 506 Deferred income 22 37 Containers in the hands of customers 455 353 Amounts owed to associates trade 38 25 Amounts owed to joint ventures trade 23 29 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 7 9 Excise duty payable 337 225 VAT and other taxes payable 181 110 Other payables 556 503 Total trade and other payables 3,372 2,586 Analysed as: Current Trade payables 1,058 789 Accruals 695 506 Deferred income 6 Containers in the hands of customers 455 353 Amounts owed to associates trade 38 25 Amounts owed to joint ventures trade 23 29 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 4 6 Excise duty payable 337 225 VAT and other taxes payable 181 110 Other payables 430 357 3,227 2,400 Non-current Deferred income 16 37 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 3 3 Other payables 126 146 145 186 1 As restated see note 28.
Deferred taxation The movement on the net deferred tax liability is shown below: 1 2010 2009 US$m US$m At 1 April 1,869 1,608 Exchange adjustments 258 371 Acquisitions through business combinations 1 15 Formation of MillerCoors joint venture 678 Rate change 11 3 Charged to the income statement 57 67 Deferred tax on items credited charged to other comprehensive income: Financial instruments 46 31 Actuarial gains and losses 10 94 At 31 March 2,210 1,869 1 As restated see note 28.
104 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Deferred taxation continued The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities after offsetting of balances as permitted by IAS 12 during the year are shown below.
Pensions and post-retirement Investment Fixed asset benefit Financial in MillerCoors Other timing allowances provisions Intangibles instruments joint venture differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities At 1 April 2008 613 30 1,383 139 122 1,949 Exchange adjustments 137 7 284 26 11 399 Acquisitions through business combinations 15 2 17 Formation of MillerCoors joint venture 569 569 Rate change 2 3 5 Transfers from deferred tax assets 32 32 Charged credited to the income statement 31 8 57 52 24 58 Deferred tax on items credited charged to other comprehensive income: Financial instruments 6 39 33 Actuarial gains and losses 5 99 94 1 At 31 March 2009 520 10 1,044 55 455 76 2,030 Exchange adjustments 101 3 204 4 29 269 Acquisitions through business combinations 1 1 Rate change 2 9 11 Transfers from deferred tax assets 11 2 13 Charged credited to the income statement 47 2 38 26 93 17 57 Deferred tax on items credited charged to other comprehensive income: Financial instruments 12 58 46 Actuarial gains and losses 2 7 5 At 31 March 2010 656 13 1,210 97 599 19 2,374 1 As restated see note 28.
Pensions and post-retirement Fixed asset benefit Provisions Financial Other timing allowances provisions and accruals instruments differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax assets At 1 April 2008 222 268 158 2 135 341 Exchange adjustments 4 15 9 28 Acquisitions through business combinations 2 2 Formation of MillerCoors joint venture 240 266 106 23 109 Rate change 2 2 Transfers to deferred tax liabilities 32 32 Credited charged to the income statement 1 4 14 9 Deferred tax on items charged to other comprehensive income: Financial instruments 2 2 At 31 March 2009 15 2 41 103 161 Exchange adjustments 1 6 4 11 Transfers to deferred tax liabilities 11 2 13 Credited charged to the income statement 2 20 18 Deferred tax on items credited to other comprehensive income: Actuarial gains and losses 5 5 At 31 March 2010 3 7 67 87 164 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
The deferred tax asset arises due to timing differences in Europe, Africa, Asia and Latin America.
Given both recent and forecast trading, the directors are of the opinion that the level of profits in the foreseeable future is more likely than not to be sufficient to recover these assets.
Deferred tax liabilities of US$2,349 million 2009: US$2,044 million are expected to be recovered after more than one year.
Deferred tax assets of US$102 million 2009: US$126 million are expected to be recovered after more than one year.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 105 20.
Deferred taxation continued 2010 2009 US$m US$m Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: Tax losses 113 65 Tax credits 36 64 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 13 9 Share-based payments 17 11 Cash flow hedges 1 3 180 152 These deferred tax assets will not expire, with the exception of US$36 million 2009: US$33 million tax credits which will expire if conditions for utilisation are not met.
Deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries where there is an intention to distribute those reserves.
A deferred tax liability of US$31 million 2009: US$16 million has been recognised.
A deferred tax liability of US$46 million 2009: US$29 million has also been recognised in respect of unremitted profits of associates where a dividend policy is not in place.
No deferred tax has been recognised on temporary differences of US$5,600 million 2009: US$5,100 million relating to unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries where either the overseas profits will not be distributed in the foreseeable future, or, where there are plans to remit overseas earnings of subsidiaries, it is not expected that such distributions will give rise to a tax liability.
No deferred tax liability is recognised as the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
As a result of a change in UK legislation which largely exempts overseas dividends received on or after 1 July 2009 from UK tax, the temporary differences are unlikely to lead to additional tax.
Remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate.
Borrowings 2010 2009 US$m US$m Current Secured Overdrafts 34 76 Obligations under finance leases 5 4 Other secured loans 46 18 85 98 Unsecured 1 US$300 million LIBOR 0.3% Notes due 2009 301 COP40 billion DTF 3.0% Ordinary Bonds due 2009 16 2 Botswana pula 60 million 11.35% fixed rate bond due 2011 9 3, 4 Commercial paper 633 773 Other unsecured loans 722 736 Overdrafts 156 224 1,520 2,050 Total current borrowings 1,605 2,148 The fair value of current borrowings equals their carrying amount, as the impact of discounting is not significant.
1 On 28 June 2006, SABMiller plc issued US$300 million LIBOR plus 0.3% Notes due July 2009 guaranteed by Miller Brewing Company, Miller Products Company, Miller Breweries West Limited Partnership, Miller Breweries East Inc. MBC1 LLC, MBC2 LLC together the US Guarantors and SABMiller Finance BV.
Since 1 July 2008, the notes were not guaranteed.
The notes were repaid on 1 July 2009.
2 On 28 July 2004, a 60 million Botswana pula 11.35% unsecured private bond was placed in the Botswana debt capital market.
This bond matures on 31 March 2011.
The bond is redeemable at any time at the option of the issuer, at a market value, in whole or in part.
The bond is not guaranteed.
3 In October 2006, SABMiller plc entered into a US$1,000 million commercial paper programme for general corporate purposes.
Debt issued under the programme was guaranteed by the US Guarantors and SABMiller Finance BV until 30 June 2008.
Since 1 July 2008, debt issued under the programme is not guaranteed.
4 On 17 July 2007, SABSA Holdings Pty Ltd and SABFIN Pty Ltd established a ZAR4,000 million Domestic Medium Term Note Programme under which commercial paper may be issued.
On 24 December 2008, the programme was increased to ZAR6,000 million.
Debt issued under the programme is guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
106 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Borrowings continued 2010 2009 US$m US$m Non-current Secured Obligations under finance leases 7 6 Other secured loans 128 20 135 26 Unsecured 1 US$1,100 million 5.5% Notes due 2013 1,142 1,152 2 1,000 million 4.5% Notes due 2015 1,365 3 US$300 million 6.625% Guaranteed Notes due 2033 352 396 4 US$600 million 6.2% Notes due 2011 608 608 4 US$850 million 6.5% Notes due 2016 939 966 5 US$550 million 5.7% Notes due 2014 591 598 5 US$700 million 6.5% Notes due 2018 747 778 6 PEN150 million 6.75% Notes due 2015 53 COP640 billion IPC 7.3% Ordinary Bonds due 2014 390 333 COP561.8 billion IPC 6.52% Ordinary Bonds due 2015 335 263 COP370 billion IPC 8.18% Ordinary Bonds due 2012 218 183 COP338.5 billion IPC 7.5% Ordinary Bonds due 2013 202 172 7 ZAR1,600 million 9.935% Guaranteed Notes due 2012 219 167 8 US$2,000 million multi-currency revolving credit facility 735 9 US$600 million multi-currency revolving credit facility 250 600 Botswana pula 60 million 11.35% fixed rate bond due 2011 8 Other unsecured loans 263 485 7,674 7,444 Total non-current borrowings 7,809 7,470 Total current and non-current borrowings 9,414 9,618 Analysed as: Borrowings 9,212 9,308 Obligations under finance leases 12 10 Overdrafts 190 300 9,414 9,618 The fair value of non-current borrowings is US$8,351 million 2009: US$8,034 million.
The fair values are based on cash flows discounted using prevailing interest rates.
1 On 7 August 2003, Miller Brewing Company issued US$1,100 million, 5.5% Guaranteed Notes due August 2013, guaranteed by SABMiller plc and SABMiller Finance BV until 30 June 2008.
Since 1 July 2008, the notes are not guaranteed and SABMiller plc is the sole obligor of the notes.
The notes are redeemable in whole or in part at any time at the option of the issuer at a redemption price equal to the make-whole amount.
In addition, the notes are redeemable in whole but not in part at the option of the issuer upon the occurrence of certain changes in taxation at their principal amount with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.
2 On 17 July 2009, SABMiller plc issued 1,000 million 4.5% Notes due January 2015.
The notes were issued under the US$5,000 million Euro Medium Term Note Programme.
The notes are redeemable in whole but not in part at the option of the issuer upon the occurrence of certain changes in taxation at their principal amount with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.
3 On 7 August 2003, SABMiller plc issued US$300 million, 6.625% Guaranteed Notes due August 2033, guaranteed by Miller Brewing Company and SABMiller Finance BV until 30 June 2008.
From 1 July 2008, MillerCoors LLC is the sole guarantor.
4 On 28 June 2006, SABMiller plc issued US$600 million, 6.2% Notes due July 2011 and US$850 million, 6.5% Notes due July 2016, guaranteed by the US Guarantors and SABMiller Finance BV until 30 June 2008.
Since 1 July 2008, the notes are not guaranteed.
5 On 17 July 2008, SABMiller plc issued US$550 million, 5.7% Notes due January 2014 and US$700 million, 6.5% Notes due August 2018.
6 On 12 March 2010, SABMiller plc issued PEN150 million, 6.75% Notes due March 2015.
7 On 19 July 2007, SABSA Holdings Pty Ltd issued ZAR1,600 million, 9.935% Guaranteed Notes due 2012, guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
The notes were issued under the ZAR4,000 million increased to ZAR6,000 million on 24 December 2008 Domestic Medium Term Note Programme established on 17 July 2007.
The notes are redeemable in whole or in part at the option of the issuer upon the occurrence of certain changes in taxation at their principal amount with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of the redemption.
8 On 12 December 2005, the group entered into a US$2,000 million multi-currency revolving credit facility for general corporate purposes.
The facility matures in December 2012.
9 On 30 May 2008, the group entered into a US$600 million revolving credit facility for general corporate purposes.
The facility matures in May 2011.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 107 21.
Borrowings continued Undrawn borrowing facilities The group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 March in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Amounts expiring: Within one year 441 716 Between one and two years 1,025 72 Between two and five years 2,112 1,272 In five years or more 1 33 3,579 2,093 The facilities expiring within one year are annual facilities subject to review at various dates during the 2011 financial year.
Maturity of obligations under finance leases Obligations under finance leases are as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: Within one year 5 4 Between one and five years 5 5 In five years or more 3 2 13 11 Future finance charges on finance leases 1 1 Present value of finance lease liabilities 12 10 Maturity of non-current financial liabilities The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the groups non-current financial liabilities at 31 March was as follows: Net derivative Net derivative financial financial 1 1 Borrowings Finance assets 2010 Borrowings Finance assets 2009 and overdrafts leases note 23 Total and overdrafts leases note 23 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Amounts falling due: Between one and two years 1,048 4 1,052 115 4 18 101 Between two and five years 4,693 3 135 4,561 4,460 2 138 4,324 In five years or more 2,061 218 1,843 2,889 339 2,550 7,802 7 353 7,456 7,464 6 495 6,975 1 Net borrowings-related derivative financial instruments only.
Financial risk factors Financial risk management Overview In the normal course of business, the group is exposed to the following financial risks: Market risk Credit risk Liquidity risk This note explains the groups exposure to each of the above risks, aided by quantitative disclosures included throughout these consolidated financial statements, and it summarises the policies and processes that are in place to measure and manage the risks arising, including those related to the management of capital.
The directors are ultimately responsible for the establishment and oversight of the groups risk management framework.
An essential part of this framework is the role undertaken by the audit committee of the board, supported by the internal audit function, and by the Chief Financial Officer, who in this regard is supported by the treasury committee and the group treasury function.
Amongst other responsibilities, the audit committee reviews the internal control environment and risk management systems within the group and it reports its activities to the board.
The board also receives a quarterly report on treasury activities, including confirmation of compliance with treasury risk management policies.
108 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial risk factors continued The group treasury function is responsible for the management of cash, borrowings and the financial risks arising in relation to interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
The responsibility for the management of commodities exposures lies with the procurement functions within the group.
In relation to brewing materials, these activities are co-ordinated by a global sourcing council.
Some of the risk management strategies include the use of derivatives, principally in the form of forward foreign currency contracts, cross currency swaps, interest rate swaps and exchange traded futures contracts, in order to manage the currency, interest rate and commodities exposures arising from the groups operations.
The group also purchases call options where these provide a cost-effective hedging alternative and, where they form part of an option collar strategy, the group also sells put options to reduce or eliminate the cost of purchased options.
It is the policy of the group that no trading in financial instruments be undertaken.
The groups treasury policies are established to identify and analyse the financial risks faced by the group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor exposures and adherence to limits.
Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The group is subject to exposure on the translation of the foreign currency denominated net assets of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures into the groups US dollar reporting currency.
The group seeks to mitigate this exposure, where cost effective, by borrowing in the same currencies as the functional currencies of its main operating units or by achieving the same effect through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps.
An approximate nominal value of US$2,329 million of US dollar borrowings and 254 million of euro borrowings have been swapped into currencies that match the currency of the underlying operations of the group, primarily South African rand, but also Colombian peso, Peruvian nuevo sol, Czech koruna, Polish zloty, Russian rouble and euro.
Of these financial derivatives, US$1,161 million and 150 million are accounted for as net investment hedges.
The group does not hedge currency exposures from the translation of profits earned in foreign currency subsidiaries and associates.
The group is also exposed to transactional currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of group entities.
These exposures are presently managed locally by group entities which, subject to regulatory constraints or currency market limitations, hedge a proportion of their foreign currency exposure estimated to arise over a period of up to 18 months.
Committed transactional exposures that are certain are hedged fully without limitation in time.
The group principally uses forward exchange contracts to hedge currency risk.
The tables below set out the groups currency exposures from financial assets and liabilities held by group companies in currencies other than their functional currencies and resulting in exchange movements in the income statement and balance sheet.
Other Other European African US dollars SA rand Euro currencies currencies Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Trade and other receivables 36 179 147 3 52 58 475 1 Derivative financial instruments 512 3 461 20 996 Cash and cash equivalents 30 27 71 1 38 167 Intragroup assets 254 1,688 267 52 2,261 At 31 March 2010 832 182 2,323 341 53 168 3,899 Potential impact on earnings loss gain 20% increase in functional currency 117 30 348 57 9 28 589 20% decrease in functional currency 140 36 417 68 11 34 706 Potential impact on other comprehensive income loss gain 20% increase in functional currency 22 39 61 20% decrease in functional currency 26 47 73 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 196 141 146 15 82 99 679 1 Derivative financial instruments 205 617 619 892 245 2,578 Borrowings 310 2 1,499 7 58 190 2,066 Intragroup liabilities 62 62 166 99 1 1 391 At 31 March 2010 773 822 2,430 1,013 141 535 5,714 Potential impact on earnings gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 129 34 350 61 24 52 650 20% decrease in functional currency 155 41 419 74 28 63 780 Potential impact on other comprehensive income gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 103 56 107 37 303 20% decrease in functional currency 123 67 129 44 363 1 These represent the notional amounts of derivative financial instruments.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 109 22.
Financial risk factors continued Other Other European African US dollars SA rand Euro currencies currencies Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Trade and other receivables 63 32 81 88 14 26 304 1 Derivative financial instruments 148 322 1,326 324 10 2,130 Cash and cash equivalents 32 68 8 4 2 114 Intragroup assets 279 1 1,976 532 107 2,895 Available for sale investments 1 1 At 31 March 2009 523 355 3,451 952 18 145 5,444 Potential impact on earnings loss gain 20% increase in functional currency 61 7 502 110 2 21 703 20% decrease in functional currency 91 11 754 164 3 32 1,055 Potential impact on other comprehensive income loss gain 20% increase in functional currency 1 54 60 30 145 20% decrease in functional currency 2 82 90 46 220 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 148 27 147 5 1 3 331 1 Derivative financial instruments 705 133 210 384 199 1,631 Borrowings 315 614 138 1 116 1,184 Intragroup liabilities 92 1 79 101 1 4 278 At 31 March 2009 1,260 161 1,050 628 3 322 3,424 Potential impact on earnings gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 153 6 287 41 20 507 20% decrease in functional currency 229 10 431 60 30 760 Potential impact on other comprehensive income gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 3 26 64 33 126 20% decrease in functional currency 5 38 96 50 189 1 These represent the notional amounts of derivative financial instruments.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis Currency risks arise on account of financial instruments being denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency and being of a monetary nature.
The group holds foreign currency cash flow hedges totalling US$417 million at 31 March 2010 2009: US$357 million.
The foreign exchange gains or losses on these contracts are recorded in the cash flow hedging reserve until the hedged transactions occur, at which time the respective gains and losses are transferred to inventory, property, plant and equipment or to the income statement as appropriate.
The group holds net investment hedges totalling US$1,751 million at 31 March 2010 2009: US$1,545 million.
The foreign exchange gains or losses on these contracts are recorded in the net investment hedging reserve and partially offset the foreign currency translation risk on the groups foreign currency net assets.
ii Interest rate risk As at 31 March 2010, 34% 2009: 29% of consolidated gross borrowings were in fixed rates taking into account interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements.
The groups policy is to borrow directly or synthetically in floating rates, reflecting the fact that floating rates are generally lower than fixed rates in the medium term.
However, a minimum of 25% of consolidated net borrowings is required to be in fixed rates for a minimum duration of 12 months and the extent to which group borrowings may be in floating rates is restricted to the lower of 75% of consolidated net borrowings and that amount of net borrowings in floating rates that with a 1% increase in interest rates would increase finance costs by an amount equal to but not more than 1.20% of normalised EBITDA adjusted to exclude cash exceptional items.
The policy also excludes borrowings arising from recent acquisitions and any inflation linked debt, where there will be a natural hedge within business operations.
Exposure to movements in interest rates in group borrowings is managed through interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements.
As at 31 March 2010, on a policy adjusted basis, excluding borrowings from recent acquisitions and any inflation linked debt, 47% 2009: 35% of consolidated net borrowings were in fixed rates.
The impact of a 1% rise in interest rates on borrowings in floating rates would be equivalent to 0.78% 2009: 1.08% of normalised EBITDA adjusted to exclude cash exceptional items.
110 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial risk factors continued At 31 March 2010 the cash flow interest rate risk sensitivities on variable debt and interest rate swaps were: Other European Colombian US dollars SA rand Euro currencies peso Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Net debt 4,862 392 1,458 88 1,205 630 8,635 Less fixed rate debt 4,379 219 1,365 62 6,025 Variable rate debt 483 173 93 88 1,205 568 2,610 Adjust for: Financial derivatives 225 188 1,071 600 567 2,651 Net variable rate debt exposure 708 361 1,164 688 1,772 568 5,261 - 100 bps change Potential impact on earnings 9 4 12 7 18 6 56 - 100 bps change Potential impact on other comprehensive income 3 3 6 At 31 March 2009 the cash flow interest rate risk sensitivities on variable debt and interest rate swaps were: Other European Colombian US dollars SA rand Euro currencies peso Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1,2 Net debt 5,905 504 707 282 1,262 536 9,196 Less fixed rate debt 4,506 164 60 120 4,850 Variable rate debt 1,399 340 707 222 1,262 416 4,346 Adjust for: Financial derivatives 169 200 940 663 400 2,034 Net variable rate debt exposure 1,230 540 1,647 885 1,662 416 6,380 - 100 bps change Potential impact on earnings 17 6171020 4 74 - 100 bps change Potential impact on other comprehensive income 4 5 9 1 Excluding net borrowings-related derivative instruments.
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed income instruments Changes in the market interest rates of non-derivative financial instruments with fixed interest rates only affect income if these are measured at their fair value.
As such, all financial instruments with fixed rates of interest that are accounted for at amortised cost are not subject to interest rate risk as defined in IFRS 7.
The group holds derivative contracts with a nominal value of US$2,901 million as at 31 March 2010 2009: US$2,225 million which are designated as fair value hedges.
In the case of these instruments and the underlying fixed rate bonds, changes in the fair values of the hedged item and the hedging instrument attributable to interest rate movements net off almost completely in the income statement in the same period.
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments A change of 100 bps in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased decreased other comprehensive income and the income statement by the amounts shown above.
This analysis assumes all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
The analysis was performed on the same basis for 2009.
Interest rate profiles of financial liabilities The following table sets out the contractual repricing included within the underlying borrowings excluding net borrowings-related derivatives exposed to either fixed interest rates or floating interest rates and revises this for the repricing effect of interest rate and cross currency swaps.
2010 2009 Total Effect of Total Total Effect of Total borrowings derivatives exposure borrowings derivatives exposure US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Repricing due: Within one year 3,399 2,806 6,205 4,836 2,184 7,020 Between one and two years 609 609 104 50 54 Between two and five years 3,369 1,431 1,938 2,538 759 1,779 In five years or more 2,037 1,375 662 2,140 1,375 765 Total interest bearing 9,414 9,414 9,618 9,618 Analysed as: Fixed rate interest 6,025 2,806 3,219 4,850 2,034 2,816 Floating rate interest 3,389 2,806 6,195 4,768 2,034 6,802 Total interest bearing 9,414 9,414 9,618 9,618 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 111 22.
Financial risk factors continued iii Price risk Commodity price risk The group is exposed to variability in the price of commodities used in the production or in the packaging of finished products, such as the price of malt, barley, sugar and aluminium.
These price risks are managed principally through multi year fixed price contracts with suppliers internationally.
At 31 March 2010 the notional value of commodity derivatives amounted to US$42 million 2009: US$55 million.
No sensitivity analysis has been provided on these outstanding contracts as the impact is considered to be immaterial.
Equity securities price risk The group is exposed to equity securities price risk because of investments held by the group and classified on the balance sheet as available for sale investments.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Financial instruments The group limits its exposure to financial institutions by setting credit limits on a sliding scale based on their credit ratings and generally only with counterparties with a minimum credit rating of BBBby Standard & Poors and Baa3 from Moodys.
For banks with a lower credit rating, or with no international credit rating, a maximum limit of US$3 million is applied, unless specific approval is obtained from either the Chief Financial Officer or the audit committee of the board.
The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored.
To reduce credit exposures, the group has ISDA Master Agreements with most of its counterparties for financial derivatives, which permit net settlement of assets and liabilities in certain circumstances.
Trade and other receivables There is no significant concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the group has a large number of customers which are internationally dispersed.
The type of customers range from wholesalers and distributors to smaller retailers.
The group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
Credit risk is managed by limiting the aggregate amount of exposure to any one counterparty.
The group considers its maximum credit risk to be US$2,749 million 2009: US$2,528 million restated which is the total of the groups financial assets.
c. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The group finances its operations through cash generated by the business and a mixture of short-term and medium-term bank credit facilities, bank loans, corporate bonds and commercial paper with a range of maturity dates.
In this way, the group ensures that it is not overly reliant on any particular liquidity source or that maturities of borrowings sourced in this way are not overly concentrated.
Subsidiaries have access to local bank credit facilities, but are principally funded by the group.
The group has the following core lines of credit that are available for general corporate purposes and which are maintained by SABMiller plc: US$2,000 million committed syndicated facility maturing in December 2012.
US$515 million committed syndicated facility maturing in October 2010, including the right of the company to term out any amounts drawn for a maximum period of one year from the date of maturity of the facility.
US$600 million committed syndicated facility maturing in May 2011.
Liquidity risk faced by the group is mitigated by having diverse sources of finance available to it and by maintaining substantial unutilised banking facilities and reserve borrowing capacity, as indicated by the level of undrawn facilities.
As at 31 March 2010, borrowing capacity under committed bank facilities amounted to US$3,579 million.
112 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial risk factors continued The table below analyses the groups financial liabilities which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Less than Between Between Over 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2010 Borrowings 1,746 1,921 5,359 2,694 Derivative financial instruments 253 63 26 Trade and other payables 2,703 117 2 Financial guarantee contracts 16 1 At 31 March 2009 Borrowings 2,613 573 5,182 3,271 Derivative financial instruments 113 97 16 1 Trade and other payables 2,070 129 10 1 As restated see note 28.
The table below analyses the groups derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
Less than Between Between Over 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2010 Forward foreign exchange contracts Outflow 488 74 Inflow 434 67 Cross currency swaps Outflow 152 239 607 583 Inflow 145 241 694 653 At 31 March 2009 Forward foreign exchange contracts Outflow 283 13 Inflow 326 15 Cross currency swaps Outflow 261 469 765 555 Inflow 256 491 903 664 Capital management The capital structure of the group consists of net debt see note 27c and shareholders equity.
The groups policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
Besides the minimum capitalisation rules that may apply to subsidiaries in different countries, the groups only externally imposed capital requirement relates to the groups core lines of credit which include a net debt to EBITDA financial covenant which was complied with throughout the year.
The group monitors its financial capacity and credit ratings by reference to a number of key financial ratios and cash flow metrics including net debt to EBITDA and interest cover.
These provide a framework within which the groups capital base is managed including dividend policy.
The group is currently rated Baa1 by Moodys Investors Service and BBB by Standard & Poors Ratings Services, both with a stable outlook.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 113 22.
Financial risk factors continued Fair value estimation Effective 1 April 2009, the group adopted the amendment to IFRS 7 for financial instruments that are measured in the balance sheet at fair value.
This requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy.
The following table presents the groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 March 2010.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial instruments 429 429 Available for sale investments 1161532 Total assets 1 445 15 461 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial instruments 321 321 Total liabilities 321 321 The levels of the fair value hierarchy and its application to the groups financial assets and liabilities are described below: Level 1: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the group is the current bid price.
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : The fair values of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over the counter derivatives or infrequently traded listed investments are determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
Specific valuation techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine fair value of the remaining financial instruments.
The following table presents the changes in level 3 instruments for the year ended 31 March 2010.
Available for sale investments US$m At 1 April 15 Exchange adjustments 1 Disposals 1 At 31 March 15 114 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Derivative financial instruments Current derivative financial instruments 2010 2009 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m Embedded derivatives 4 1 1 Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges 4 2 Forward foreign currency contracts on operating items 5 12 10 2 1 Forward foreign currency contracts on borrowings 1 1 8 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 1 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 26 42 4 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as fair value hedges 2 Cross currency swaps on operating items 1 1 Cross currency swaps on borrowings 14 125 1 Commodity contracts designated as cash flow hedges 1 1 15 20 174 54 35 1 Borrowings-related derivative financial instruments amounting to a net liability of US$116 million 2009: US$8 million.
Non-current derivative financial instruments 2010 2009 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 252 379 1 Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges 9 22 Forward foreign currency contracts on operating items 1 1 Forward foreign currency contracts on borrowings 2 1 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 2 17 5 5 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 7 3 Cross currency swaps on operating items 1 1 Cross currency swaps on borrowings 123 14 162 24 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 30 99 146 54 409 147 695 107 1 Borrowings-related derivative financial instruments amounting to a net asset of US$353 million 2009: US$495 million.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments i Fair value hedges The group has entered into several interest rate swaps to pay floating and receive fixed interest which have been designated as fair value hedges to hedge exposure to changes in the fair value of its US dollar and euro fixed rate borrowings.
Non-current borrowings are designated as the hedged item as part of the fair value hedge.
The borrowings and the interest rate swaps have the same critical terms.
As at 31 March 2010, the notional amount of the US dollar interest rate swaps was US$2,225 million 2009: US$2,225 million.
The fixed interest rates received vary from 5.5% to 6.625% 2009: 5.5% to 6.625% and the floating interest rates paid vary from LIBOR plus 71.6 bps to LIBOR plus 198.8 bps 2009: LIBOR plus 71.6 bps to LIBOR plus 198.8 bps on the notional amount.
As at 31 March 2010, the notional amount of the euro interest rate swaps was 500 million 2009: nil.
The fixed interest rates received are 4.5% and floating interest rates paid vary from EURIBOR plus 177 bps to EURIBOR plus 178 bps on the notional amount.
As at 31 March 2010, the carrying value of the hedged borrowings was US$3,152 million 2009: US$2,576 million.
ii Cash flow hedges The group has entered into interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges to manage the interest rate on borrowings.
The notional amount of these interest rate swaps was US$345 million equivalent 2009: US$493 million.
The fair value of these interest rate swaps was a liability of US$13 million 2009: US$24 million.
The fixed interest rates paid vary from 3.5% to 4.7% 2009: 3.4% to 5.4% and the floating rates received are LIBOR and EURIBOR plus zero bps 2009: LIBOR and EURIBOR plus zero bps.
As at 31 March 2010, the carrying value of the hedged borrowings was US$345 million 2009: US$493 million.
The group has entered into forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges to manage short-term foreign currency exposures to expected future trade imports and exports.
As at 31 March 2010, the notional amounts of these contracts were 195 million 2009: 149 million and US$153 million 2009: US$142 million.
The group has entered into commodity contracts designated as cash flow hedges to manage the future price of commodities.
As at 31 March 2010, the notional amount of forward contracts for the purchase price of corn was US$8 million 2009: US$5 million and the notional amount of forward contracts for the purchase price of aluminium was US$34 million 2009: US$50 million.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 115 23.
Derivative financial instruments continued The following table indicates the period in which the cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected to occur and impact the income statement: Carrying Expected Less than Between Between More than amount cash flows 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2010 Interest rate swaps: Liabilities 13 13 4 3 6 Forward foreign currency contracts: Liabilities 33 36 29 7 Commodity contracts: Assets 1 1 1 Liabilities 1 1 1 46 49 33 10 6 At 31 March 2009 Interest rate swaps: Liabilities 22 23 11 5 6 1 Forward foreign currency contracts: Assets 45 45 42 3 Liabilities 4 4 4 Commodity contracts: Liabilities 15 15 15 4 3 12 2 6 1 iii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations The group has entered into several forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps which it has designated as hedges of net investments in its foreign subsidiaries in South Africa, the Czech Republic, Poland, Italy, Peru and Colombia to hedge the groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments.
Net losses relating to forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps of US$310 million 2009: gains of US$337 million have been recognised in other comprehensive income.
Analysis of notional amounts on financial instruments designated as net investment hedges: 2010 2009 m m Forward foreign currency contracts: SA rand ZAR 1,703 1,575 Czech koruna CZK 5,500 Peruvian nuevo sol PEN 294 294 Cross currency swaps: SA rand ZAR 2,799 2,799 Polish zloty PLN 649 636 Czech koruna CZK 2,258 7,788 Euro 38 246 Colombian peso COP 272,220 Standalone derivative financial instruments i Forward foreign currency contracts The group has entered into forward foreign currency contracts to manage short-term foreign currency exposures to expected future trade imports and exports.
These derivatives are fair valued based on discounted future cash flows with gains and losses taken to the income statement.
As at 31 March 2010, the notional amounts of these contracts were53 million, US$35 million and ZAR22 million 2009: 54 million, US$128 million and PLN7 million.
The group has entered into forward foreign currency contracts to manage foreign currency exposures on intercompany loan balances.
As at 31 March 2010, the notional amounts of these contracts were US$205 million, Russian rouble RUB 1,640 million and Romanian lei RON 122 million 2009: US$219 million, 137 million, PLN70 million, CZK120 million, RON35 million and HUF5,000 million.
116 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Derivative financial instruments continued ii Cross currency swaps The group has entered into cross currency swaps to manage foreign currency exposures on intercompany loan balances.
As at 31 March 2010, the notional amounts of these contracts were571 million, RUB2,900 million and PLN443 million 2009: 571 million and RUB2,900 million.
The group has entered into cross currency swaps to manage the fluctuation of the exchange rates over a portion of its US dollar debt.
As at 31 March 2010, the notional amount of these contracts was US$300 million 2009: US$300 million.
The group has entered into a cross currency swap to hedge the exposure to foreign exchange risk on its investment in foreign subsidiaries in Colombia.
This derivative is fair valued based on discounted future cash flows with gains and losses taken to the income statement.
As at 31 March 2010, the notional amount of this contract was COP272,220 million.
Fair value loss gain on financial instruments recognised in the income statement 2010 2009 US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 116 246 Forward foreign currency contracts 7 16 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as fair value hedges 1 3 Cross currency swaps 99 265 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 8 22 Gain on early termination of financial derivatives 20 Change in valuation methodology of financial instruments 17 248 522 Other financial instruments: Non-current borrowings designated as the hedged item in a fair value hedge 118 236 Total fair value loss gain on financial instruments recognised in the income statement 130 286 Fair value gains or losses on borrowings and derivative financial instruments held to hedge interest rate risk on borrowings are recognised as part of net finance costs.
Fair value gains or losses on all other derivative financial instruments are recognised in operating profit.
Reconciliation of total financial instruments The table below reconciles the groups accounting categorisation of financial assets and liabilities based on initial recognition to the classes of assets and liabilities as shown on the face of the balance sheet.
Fair value Financial Not through liabilities categorised income Loans and Available held at as a financial statement receivables for sale amortised cost instrument Total Non current Current US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2010 Assets Available for sale investments 32 32 31 1 Derivative financial instruments 429 429 409 20 Trade and other receivables 1,509 273 1,782 117 1,665 Cash and cash equivalents 779 779 779 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 321 321 147 174 Borrowings 9,414 9,414 7,809 1,605 Trade and other payables 2,831 541 3,372 145 3,227 1 At 31 March 2009 Assets Available for sale investments 40 40 29 11 Derivative financial instruments 749 749 695 54 Trade and other receivables 1,317 384 1,701 125 1,576 Cash and cash equivalents 422 422 422 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 142 142 107 35 Borrowings 9,618 9,618 7,470 2,148 Trade and other payables 2,214 372 2,586 186 2,400 1 As restated see note 28.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 117 24.
Provisions Litigation and Postdemerged retirement TaxationOnerous entities benefits related contracts Restructuring Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2008 80 1,017 326 2 16 74 1,515 Exchange adjustments 11 74 42 1 5 9 142 Acquisitions through business combinations 3 1 4 Contributed to joint ventures 715 5 29 749 Charged credited to the income statement Additional provision in year 13 35 12 9 24 23 116 Unused amounts reversed 4 1 1 6 Utilised in the year Existing 6 46 21 1 4 21 99 Actuarial losses recorded in other comprehensive income 18 18 Reclassifications 18 1 19 Transfer from payables receivables 3 4 14 15 At 31 March 2009 69 217 276 8 30 72 672 Exchange adjustments 7 59 34 2 8 110 Acquisitions through business combinations 1 4 5 Charged credited to the income statement Additional provision in year 8 36 20 1 10 33 108 Unused amounts reversed 3 13 1 17 Utilised in the year Existing 3 34 5 2 10 23 77 Actuarial losses recorded in other comprehensive income 15 15 Transfer to payables receivables 4 4 8 At 31 March 2010 78 290 308 6 32 94 808 Analysed as: Current 36 247 6 15 51 355 Non-current 42 290 61 17 43 453 78 290 308 6 32 94 808 Demerged entities and litigation During the year ended 31 March 1998, the group recognised a provision of US$117 million for the disposal of certain demerged entities in relation to equity injections which were not regarded as recoverable, as well as potential liabilities arising on warranties and the sale agreements.
During the year ended 31 March 2010, US$nil 2009: US$1 million of this provision was utilised in regard to costs associated with SAB Ltds previously disposed of remaining retail interests.
The residual balance of US$16 million relates mainly to the disposal of OK Bazaars 1929 Ltd to Shoprite Holdings Ltd Shoprite.
As disclosed in previous annual reports, a number of claims were made by Shoprite in relation to the valuation of the net assets of OK Bazaars at the time of the sale and for alleged breaches by SAB Ltd of warranties contained in the sale agreements.
These claims are being contested by SAB Ltd.
There are US$62 million 2009: US$57 million of provisions in respect of outstanding litigation within various operations, based on managements expectation that the outcomes of these disputes are expected to be resolved within the forthcoming five years.
While a full provision for all claims has already been made, the actual outcome of the disputes and the timing of the resolution cannot be estimated by the directors at this time.
The further information ordinarily required by IAS 37, Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets has not been disclosed on the grounds that it can be expected to seriously prejudice the outcome of the disputes.
Post-retirement benefits The provision for post-retirement benefits represents the provision for medical benefits for retired employees and their dependants in South Africa, for post-retirement medical and life insurance benefits for eligible employees and their dependants in North America and Europe, medical and other benefits in Latin America, and pension provisions for employees in North America, Latin America, Europe and Africa.
Provisions for all post-retirement benefits in North America were contributed to the MillerCoors joint venture on 30 June 2008.
The principal assumptions on which these provisions are based are disclosed in note 31.
Taxation-related The group has recognised various provisions in relation to taxation exposures it believes may arise.
The provisions principally relate to noncorporate taxation and interest and penalties on corporate taxation in respect of a number of group companies.
Any settlement in respect of these amounts will occur as and when the assessments are finalised with the respective tax authorities.
Onerous contracts The group has made provision for certain contracts which are deemed to be onerous.
The provisions are expected to be utilised within one year.
118 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Provisions continued Restructuring This includes the remaining provision for restructuring costs primarily related to Europe which management expects to be utilised within one year.
Other provisions Included within other provisions are payroll related provisions of US$52 million 2009: US$33 million which includes US$13 million 2009: US$9 million within South Africa relating to employee long service awards.
These are expected be utilised on an ongoing basis when the service awards fall due.
Share capital 2010 2009 US$m US$m Group and company Called up, allotted and fully paid share capital 1,654,749,852 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 2009: 1,585,366,969 165 159 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each 2009: 50,000 165 159 Non-voting Ordinary convertible Deferred shares of shares of shares of Nominal 10 US cents 10 US cents 1 value each each each US$m At 1 April 2008 1,505,779,276 77,368,338 50,000 158 Issue of shares share incentive plans 2,219,355 1 Conversion of the non-voting convertible shares into ordinary shares 77,368,338 77,368,338 At 31 March 2009 1,585,366,969 50,000 159 Issue of shares share incentive plans 9,382,883 Issue of shares Polish minority buyout transaction 60,000,000 6 At 31 March 2010 1,654,749,852 50,000 165 Changes to authorised share capital With effect from 1 October 2009, the company adopted new articles of association which removed any previous limit on the authorised share capital.
Directors are still limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the Companies Act 2006, save in respect of employee share schemes.
During the year ended 31 March 2009, 77,368,338 non-voting convertible shares of 10 US cents were converted into ordinary shares.
Changes to issued share capital During the year, the company issued 9,382,883 2009: 2,219,355 new ordinary shares of 10 US cents to satisfy the exercise of options granted under the various share incentive plans, for consideration of US$114 million 2009: US$23 million.
On 29 May 2009, 60 million new ordinary shares of 10 US cents were issued as consideration for the purchase of the remaining 28.1% minority interest in the groups Polish subsidiary, Kompania Piwowarska SA.
On 26 February 2009, 77,368,338 non-voting convertible shares were converted into ordinary shares and then acquired by SABMiller plc to be held as treasury shares.
While the purchase price for each share was 10.54, the whole amount of the consideration was paid between group companies.
Following this transaction, no further non-voting convertible shares remain in the issued or authorised share capital of SABMiller plc.
Rights and restrictions relating to share capital Convertible participating shares Altria shall be entitled to require the company to convert its ordinary shares into convertible participating shares so as to ensure that Altrias voting shareholding does not exceed 24.99% of the total voting shareholding.
If such an event occurs, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares in all respects and no action shall be taken by the company in relation to ordinary shares unless the same action is taken in respect of the convertible participating shares.
On distribution of the profits whether by cash dividend, dividend in specie, scrip dividend, capitalisation issue or otherwise, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares.
On a return of capital whether winding-up or otherwise, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 119 25.
Share capital continued Altria shall be entitled to vote its convertible participating shares at general meetings of the company on a poll on the basis of one-tenth of a vote for every convertible participating share on all resolutions other than a resolution: i proposed by any person other than Altria, to wind-up the company: ii proposed by any person other than Altria, to appoint an administrator or to approve any arrangement with the companys creditors: iii proposed by the board, to sell all or substantially all of the undertaking of the company: or iv proposed by any person other than Altria, to alter any of the class rights attaching to the convertible participating shares or to approve the creation of any new class of shares, in which case Altria shall be entitled on a poll to vote on the resolution on the basis of one vote for each convertible participating share, but, for the purposes of any resolution other than a resolution mentioned in iv above, the convertible participating shares shall be treated as being of the same class as the ordinary shares and no separate meeting or resolution of the holders of the convertible participating shares shall be required to be convened or passed.
Upon a transfer of convertible participating shares by Altria other than to an affiliate, such convertible participating shares shall convert into ordinary shares.
Altria shall be entitled to require the company to convert its convertible participating shares into ordinary shares if: i a third party has made a takeover offer for the company and if such offer becomes or is declared unconditional in all respects it would result in the voting shareholding of the third party being more than 30% of the total voting shareholding: and ii Altria has communicated to the company in writing its intention not itself to make an offer competing with such third party offer, provided that the conversion date shall be no earlier than the date on which the third partys offer becomes or is declared unconditional in all respects.
Altria shall be entitled to require the company to convert its convertible participating shares into ordinary shares if the voting shareholding of a third party should be more than 24.99%, provided that: i the number of ordinary shares held by Altria following such conversion shall be limited to one ordinary share more than the number of ordinary shares held by the third party: and ii such conversion shall at no time result in Altrias voting shareholding being equal to or greater than the voting shareholding which would require Altria to make a mandatory offer in terms of rule 9 of the City Code.
If Altria wishes to acquire additional ordinary shares other than pursuant to a pre-emptive issue of new ordinary shares or with the prior approval of the board, Altria shall first convert into ordinary shares the lesser of: i such number of convertible participating shares as would result in Altrias voting shareholding being such percentage as would, in the event of Altria subsequently acquiring one additional ordinary share, require Altria to make a mandatory offer in terms of rule 9 of the City Code: and ii all of its remaining convertible participating shares.
The company shall use its best endeavours to procure that the ordinary shares arising on conversion of the convertible participating shares are admitted to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges market for listed securities, admitted to listing and trading on the JSE Securities Exchange South Africa, and admitted to listing and trading on any other stock exchange upon which the ordinary shares are from time to time listed and traded, but no admission to listing or trading shall be sought for the convertible participating shares whilst they remain convertible participating shares.
Non-voting convertible shares At 1 April 2008, Safari, a special purpose vehicle established and financed by a wholly owned subsidiary of SABMiller plc, held 77,368,338 non-voting convertible shares of US$0.10 each in the capital of the company.
On 26 February 2009, these non-voting convertible shares were converted into ordinary shares and then acquired by the company to be held as treasury shares.
Following this transaction, no further non-voting convertible shares remain in the issued share capital of the company.
Deferred shares The deferred shares do not carry any voting rights and do not entitle holders thereof to receive any dividends or other distributions.
In the event of a winding up deferred shareholders would receive no more than the nominal value.
Deferred shares represent the only non-equity share capital of the group.
120 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Share capital continued Share-based payments The group operates various equity-settled share award plans for certain employees.
No further options can be granted under the Mirror Executive Share Purchase Scheme South Africa after 30 September 2008.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 121 25.
2 SABMiller plc Executive Share Option Plan 2008.
3 SABMiller plc Associated Companies Employee Share Plan 2008.
4 SABMiller plc Approved Executive Share Option Plan 2008.
No further options can be granted under the Executive Share Option Schemes Approved Scheme and No 2 Scheme after 30 September 2008.
122 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Share capital continued c Performance Share Award Scheme As at 31 March 2010 the following conditional awards were outstanding under the SABMiller plc Performance Share Award Scheme: Earliest date by which performance 2010 2009 Exercise price condition Date of award Ordinary shares Ordinary shares may be met 19 May 2006 136,125 675,000 Nil 19.05.2009 13 March 2007 10,560 32,000 Nil 13.03.2010 18 May 2007 342,927 1,041,200 Nil 18.05.2010 2 August 2007 12,375 37,500 Nil 02.08.2010 16 November 2007 894 4,680 Nil 16.11.2010 16 May 2008 921,300 935,300 Nil 16.05.2011 1 August 2008 160,000 160,000 Nil 01.08.2011 1,584,181 2,885,680 No further awards can be made under this scheme after 30 September 2008. d International Performance Share Award Sub-Scheme At 31 March 2010 the following conditional awards were outstanding under the SABMiller plc International Performance Share Award Sub-Scheme: Date by which performance 2010 2009 Exercise price condition Grant dates period of the performance condition Ordinary shares Ordinary shares must be met 19 May 2006 and 10 November 2006 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2009 726,660 Nil 01.04.2009 18 May 2007, 2 August 2007, 3 October 2007 and 16 November 2007 1 April 2007 to 31 March 2010 1,208,672 1,297,940 Nil 01.04.2010 16 May 2008 and 1 August 2008 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2011 1,345,850 1,417,920 Nil 01.04.2011 2,554,522 3,442,520 No further awards can be made under this scheme after 30 September 2008. e Executive Share Award Plan 2008 At 31 March 2010 the following conditional awards were outstanding under the SABMiller plc Executive Share Award Plan 2008: Earliest date by which performance 2010 2009 Exercise price condition Date of award Ordinary shares Ordinary shares may be met 14 November 2008 115,000 115,000 Nil 14.11.2011 15 May 2009 2,584,450 Nil 15.05.2012 9 September 2009 30,000 Nil 09.09.2012 20 November 2009 47,702 Nil 20.11.2012 2,777,152 115,000 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 123 25.
2 SABMiller plc International Employee Share Scheme Hong Kong and China.
No further share awards can be granted under the SABMiller plc International Employee Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme after 30 September 2008. h Stock Appreciation Rights Plan 2008 At 31 March 2010 the following share awards were outstanding under the SABMiller plc Stock Appreciation Rights Plan 2008: Exercise period 2010 2009 Exercise price Date of grant Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Earliest date Expiry date 14 November 2008 9,100 9,100 9.295 14.11.2011 14.11.2018 15 May 2009 84,200 12.31 15.05.2012 15.05.2019 93,300 9,100 124 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Share capital continued Share awards exercised or vested The weighted average market price of the groups shares at the date of exercise or vesting for share awards exercised or vested during the year were: Weighted Weighted average average Number market price Number market price 2010 2010 2009 2009 Share awards designated in GBP Equity-settled 10,128,773 14.98 2,061,601 11.52 Share options designated in ZAR Equity-settled 3,372,370 196.44 1,009,600 171.99 Total awards exercised or vested during the year 13,501,143 3,071,201 Share-based payments have been valued using a binomial model approach except for the Performance Share Award Schemes and Executive Share Award Plan 2008 which have been valued using Monte Carlo simulations.
The Monte Carlo simulation methodology is necessary for valuing share-based payments with TSR performance hurdles.
This is achieved by projecting SABMiller plcs share price forwards, together with those of companies in the same comparator group, over the vesting period and or life of the options after considering their respective volatilities.
Weighted average fair value assumptions The fair value of services received in return for share awards granted is measured by reference to the fair value of share awards granted.
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on a binomial model for share awards.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in these option pricing models during the year: 2010 2009 1 Share price South African schemes ZAR 204.19 160.55 All other schemes 12.23 12.50 1 Exercise price South African schemes ZAR 203.64 156.55 All other schemes 7.21 8.17 2 Expected volatility all schemes 30.6% 25.6% Dividend yield all schemes 4.0% 2.1% Annual forfeiture rate South African schemes 5.0% 5.0% All other schemes 3.0% 3.0% Risk-free interest rate South African schemes 9.0% 9.2% All other schemes 2.9% 4.7% 1 The calculation is based on the weighted fair value of issues made during the year.
2 Expected volatility is calculated by assessing the historical share price data in the United Kingdom and South Africa since May 2002.
126 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Retained earnings and other reserves a.
Retained earnings Safari, treasury and Retained EBT shares earnings Total US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2008 708 6,309 5,601 Profit for the year 1,881 1,881 Other comprehensive income 146 146 Actuarial losses taken to other comprehensive income 18 18 Share of associates and joint ventures losses recognised in other comprehensive income 222 222 Deferred tax credit on items taken to other comprehensive income 94 94 Other movements 5 5 Dividends paid 877 877 Payment for purchase of own shares for share trusts 37 37 Utilisation of EBT shares 23 23 Credit entry relating to share-based payments 79 79 At 31 March 2009 722 7,218 6,496 Profit for the year 1,910 1,910 Other comprehensive income 29 29 Actuarial losses taken to other comprehensive income 15 15 Share of associates and joint ventures losses recognised in other comprehensive income 17 17 Deferred tax credit on items taken to other comprehensive income 3 3 Dividends paid 924 924 Payment for purchase of own shares for share trusts 8 8 Utilisation of EBT shares 57 57 Credit entry relating to share-based payments 80 80 At 31 March 2010 673 8,198 7,525 The groups retained earnings includes amounts of US$678 million 2009: US$618 million, the distribution of which is limited by statutory or other restrictions.
Safari, treasury and EBT shares reserve In the financial year ended 31 March 2000, Safari Ltd a special purpose vehicle established and financed by a wholly owned subsidiary of SABMiller plc acquired 77,368,338 SABMiller plc shares at an initial cost of US$560 million.
In terms of the agreement, a top-up payment of US$58 million was accrued for at 31 March 2001 and paid to the selling shareholders on 3 April 2001.
On 9 July 2002 these shares held by Safari Ltd were converted to non-voting convertible shares.
On 15 February 2010, 5,300,000 of these treasury shares were transferred to the employees benefit trust EBT for nil consideration.
These shares will be used to satisfy awards outstanding under the various share incentive plans.
As at 31 March 2010, 72,068,338 shares were held in treasury.
The EBT holds shares in SABMiller plc for the purposes of the various executive share incentive plans, further details of which are disclosed in the remuneration report.
The shares currently rank pari passu with all other ordinary shares.
At 31 March 2010 the EBT held 8,672,331 shares 2009: 5,746,387 shares which cost US$144 million 2009: US$104 million and had a market value of US$255 million 2009: US$86 million.
These shares have been treated as a deduction in arriving at shareholders funds.
The EBT used funds provided by SABMiller plc to purchase such of the shares as were purchased in the market.
The costs of funding and administering the scheme are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 127 26.
Retained earnings and other reserves continued b.
Other reserves The analysis of other reserves is as follows: Foreign Net currency Cash flow investment Available translation hedging hedging for sale 1 reserve reserve reserve reserve Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2008 2,435 1 230 9 2,215 Currency translation differences subsidiaries 3,197 3,197 associates and joint ventures 152 152 Net investment hedges 337 337 Cash flow hedges 21 21 Available for sale investments 8 8 Deferred tax on items taken to other comprehensive income 31 31 Share of associates and joint ventures losses recognised in other comprehensive income 108 108 Transfer to profit on disposal of Millers operations 4 4 Contributed to joint ventures 7 7 1 At 31 March 2009 914 66 107 1 872 Currency translation differences subsidiaries 2,346 2,346 associates and joint ventures 101 101 Net investment hedges 310 310 Cash flow hedges 59 59 Available for sale investments 2 2 Deferred tax on items taken to other comprehensive income 39 39 Share of associates and joint ventures gains recognised in other comprehensive income 153 153 At 31 March 2010 1,533 11 203 3 1,322 1 As restated see note 28.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all translation exchange differences arising on the retranslation of opening net assets together with differences between income statements translated at average and closing rates.
128 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27a.
Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operations 2010 2009 US$m US$m Profit for the year 2,081 2,157 Taxation 848 801 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 873 516 Interest receivable and similar income 316 595 Interest payable and similar charges 879 1,301 Operating profit 2,619 3,148 Depreciation: Property, plant and equipment 655 626 Containers 226 203 Container breakages, shrinkages and write-offs 40 7 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 39 10 Profit on disposal of available for sale investments 2 Amortisation of intangible assets 203 204 Impairment of goodwill 364 Impairment of intangible assets 14 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 45 16 Impairment of working capital balances 34 12 Amortisation of advances to customers 28 12 Unrealised net loss from fair value hedges 1 14 Profit on disposal of businesses 526 Dividends received from other investments 2 1 Charge with respect to share options 80 79 Other non-cash movements 8 18 Net cash generated from operations before working capital movements EBITDA 3,974 4,164 Decrease increase in inventories 78 249 Decrease increase in receivables 48 314 Increase in payables 416 66 Increase decrease in provisions 22 7 Decrease increase in post-retirement benefit provisions 1 11 Net cash generated from operations 4,537 3,671 Cash generated from operations before working capital movements includes cash flows relating to exceptional items of US$301 million 2009: US$nil in respect of business capability programme costs, US$15 million 2009: US$49 million in respect of integration and restructuring costs and US$23 million 2009: US$nil in respect of transaction costs.
Reconciliation of net cash from operating activities to free cash flow 2010 2009 US$m US$m Net cash from operating activities 3,277 2,183 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 1,436 2,073 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 37 75 Purchase of intangible assets 92 74 Purchase of shares from minorities 5 5 Investments in joint ventures 353 397 Investments in associates 76 4 Repayment of investments by associates 3 3 Dividends received from joint ventures 707 454 Dividends received from associates 106 151 Dividends received from other investments 2 1 Dividends paid to minority interests 160 217 Free cash flow 2,010 97 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 129 27c.
Analysis of net debt Cash and cash equivalents Derivative Total excluding financial Finance gross Net overdrafts Overdrafts Borrowings instruments leases borrowings debt US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2008 673 485 9,160 75 13 9,733 9,060 Exchange adjustments 42 64 1,010 2 1,076 1,034 Cash flow 233 120 864 32 1 711 944 Acquisitions through business combinations 28 1 53 54 26 Disposals 4 2 2 2 Other movements 241 530 289 289 1 At 31 March 2009 422 300 9,308 487 10 9,131 8,709 Exchange adjustments 196 106 665 8 2 781 585 Cash flow 143 216 604 4 824 967 Acquisitions through business combinations 18 13 1 14 4 Other movements 170 242 3 75 75 At 31 March 2010 779 190 9,212 237 12 9,177 8,398 Cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet are reconciled to cash and cash equivalents on the cash flow as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents balance sheet 779 422 Overdrafts 190 300 Cash and cash equivalents cash flow 589 122 1 As restated see note 28.
Major non-cash transactions 2010 The acquisition of the outstanding 28.1% minority in the groups Polish subsidiary, Kompania Piwowarska SA, in exchange for the issue of 60 million ordinary shares in SABMiller plc was a significant non-cash transaction in the year.
2009 The contribution of the Miller Brewing Companys US and Puerto Rico operations to the MillerCoors joint venture in exchange for a 58% economic interest in the resulting joint venture was a significant non-cash transaction during the year.
130 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Restatement of the balance sheet at 31 March 2009 The initial accounting under IFRS 3, Business Combinations, for the Pabod and Voltic acquisitions had not been completed as at 31 March 2009.
During the year ended 31 March 2010, adjustments to provisional fair values in respect of these acquisitions were made.
As a result, comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2009 has been presented in the consolidated financial statements as if the adjustments to provisional fair values had been made from the respective transaction dates.
The impact on the prior year income statement has been reviewed and no material adjustments to the income statement are required as a result of the adjustments to provisional fair values.
The following table reconciles the impact on the balance sheet reported as at 31 March 2009 to the comparative balance sheet presented in the consolidated financial statements.
Balance Sheet Adjustments At 31 March At 31 March to provisional 2009 2009 fair values As restated US$m US$m US$m Assets Non-current assets Goodwill 8,734 18 8,716 Intangible assets 3,729 13 3,742 Property, plant and equipment 7,404 2 7,406 Investment in joint ventures 5,495 5,495 Investment in associates 1,787 1,787 Available for sale investments 29 29 Derivative financial instruments 695 695 Trade and other receivables 125 125 Deferred tax assets 161 161 28,159 3 28,156 Current assets Inventories 1,242 1 1,241 Trade and other receivables 1,576 1,576 Cash and cash equivalents 409 13 422 Other current assets 233 233 3,460 12 3,472 Total assets 31,619 9 31,628 Liabilities Current liabilities Derivative financial instruments 35 35 Borrowings 2,148 2,148 Trade and other payables 2,396 4 2,400 Current tax liabilities 463 463 Provisions 299 299 5,341 4 5,345 Non-current liabilities Derivative financial instruments 107 107 Borrowings 7,470 7,470 Trade and other payables 186 186 Deferred tax liabilities 2,029 1 2,030 Provisions 373 373 10,165 1 10,166 Total liabilities 15,506 5 15,511 Net assets 16,113 4 16,117 Total equity 16,113 4 16,117 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 131 29.
Acquisitions and disposals The following significant business combinations took effect during the year: In April 2009 control was assumed over Bere Azuga in Romania and the group had a 100% interest as at 31 March 2010.
In July 2009 the group acquired an effective 40% interest in Ambo Mineral Water Share Company in Ethiopia.
In September 2009 the group acquired a maheu business, a non-alcoholic traditional beverage, in Zambia, in which it has an effective 62% interest.
In February 2010 the group completed the cash acquisition of the assets of the Rwenzori water business in Uganda, in which it has an effective 80% interest.
All business combinations All business combinations have been accounted for using the purchase method.
All assets were recognised at their respective fair values.
The residual over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements.
The following table represents the assets and liabilities acquired in respect of all business combinations entered into during the year ended 31 March 2010: Carrying value Provisional pre-acquisition fair value US$m US$m Intangible assets 33 Property, plant and equipment 47 37 Inventories 65 Trade and other receivables 22 Cash and cash equivalents 18 18 Borrowings 14 14 Trade and other payables 7 11 Deferred tax liabilities 1 Provisions 5 52 64 Minority interests 27 Net assets acquired 37 Provisional goodwill 72 Consideration 109 Goodwill represents amongst other things, tangible and intangible assets yet to be recognised separately from goodwill as the fair value exercises are still in progress, potential synergies and the value of the assembled workforce.
US$m Consideration satisfied by: Cash consideration 78 Available for sale investment transferred to investment in subsidiary undertaking see note 15 11 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 18 Deferred consideration relating to current year acquisitions 4 Deferred consideration paid relating to prior year acquisitions 2 109 From the date of acquisition to 31 March 2010 the following amounts have been included in the groups income and cash flow statements for the year: US$m Income statement Revenue 16 Operating loss 1 Profit loss before tax Cash flow statement Cash utilised in operations 15 Net interest received paid Purchase of property, plant and equipment 8 If the date of the acquisitions made during the year had been 1 April 2009, then the groups revenue, operating profit and profit before tax for the year ended 31 March 2010 would have been as follows: US$m Income statement Revenue 18,048 Operating profit 2,625 Profit before tax 2,930 132 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Acquisitions and disposals continued Minority interests The following minority interests were acquired for cash consideration of US$1 million and non-cash consideration of US$1,197 million, generating additional goodwill of US$1,125 million.
The purchase of shares from minorities in the consolidated cash flow statement includes deferred consideration relating to purchases of minority interests in the prior year.
Effective % holding after acquisition of Form of Company % acquired minority interest consideration Country Kompania Piwowarska SA 28.1 100% Shares Poland Cervecera San Juan SA 0.5 86% Cash Peru Cervecera Nacional SA 0.1 97% Cash Panama Disposals Disposal of Miller subsidiary into the MillerCoors joint venture in the prior year On 30 June 2008, SABMiller plc and Molson Coors Brewing Company announced that they had completed the transaction to combine the US and Puerto Rico operations of their respective subsidiaries, Miller and Coors, in a joint venture to create MillerCoors, a stronger, brand-led US brewer in the increasingly competitive US marketplace.
MillerCoors began operating as a combined entity on 1 July 2008.
SABMiller has a 58% economic interest in MillerCoors and Molson Coors has a 42% economic interest.
Voting interests are shared equally between SABMiller and Molson Coors, and each of SABMiller and Molson Coors has equal board representation.
A profit of US$437 million arose on the disposal of the US and Puerto Rico operations of the Miller business into the MillerCoors joint venture.
The profit was calculated as 58% of the fair value of the business contributed to the joint venture by Coors Brewing Company less 42% of the value of net assets contributed to the joint venture by SABMiller plc and transaction costs.
The net assets contributed by SABMiller plc to the MillerCoors joint venture were comprised as follows: US$m Goodwill 3,998 Intangible assets 232 Property, plant and equipment 1,043 Other non-current assets 117 Non-current assets 5,390 Current assets 414 Overdraft 2 Other current liabilities 413 Provisions 15 Current liabilities 430 Other non-current liabilities 4 Provisions 734 Non-current liabilities 738 Net assets contributed to joint venture 4,636 Other disposals during the prior year On 26 February 2009, the disposal of the Agua Brisa water business in Colombia was completed for cash consideration of US$92 million.
On 26 March 2009, the disposal of the Bolivian soft drinks business was completed for cash consideration of US$27 million.
The net assets disposed of for these disposals were comprised as follows: US$m Non-current assets 22 1 Current assets 13 Current liabilities 4 Non-current liabilities 1 Net assets 30 1 Including cash and cash equivalents of US$4 million.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 30.
Operating lease commitments The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable leases at 31 March 2010 are as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Land and buildings Within one year 50 50 Later than one year and less than five years 109 83 After five years 33 46 192 179 Plant, vehicles and systems Within one year 32 26 Later than one year and less than five years 54 62 After five years 37 8 123 96 b.
Other commitments 2010 2009 US$m US$m Capital commitments not provided in the financial information Contracts placed for future expenditure for property, plant and equipment 261 403 Contracts placed for future expenditure for intangible assets 2 2 Share of capital commitments of joint ventures 37 65 Other commitments not provided in the financial information Contracts placed for future expenditure 2,086 1,499 Share of joint ventures other commitments 482 606 Contracts placed for future expenditure in 2010 primarily relate to minimum purchase commitments for raw materials and packaging materials, which are principally due between 2010 and 2015.
Additionally, as part of the business capability programme the group has entered into contracts for the provision of IT, communications and consultancy services and in relation to which the group had commitments of US$142 million at 31 March 2010.
The groups share of joint ventures other commitments primarily relate to MillerCoors various long-term non-cancellable advertising and promotion commitments.
c. Contingent liabilities and guarantees 2010 2009 US$m US$m 1 Guarantees to third parties provided in respect of trade loans 16 28 Guarantees to third parties provided in respect of bank facilities 9 8 Share of associates contingent liabilities 1 Share of joint ventures contingent liabilities 8 10 2 Litigation 14 14 Other contingent liabilities 2 47 63 1 Guarantees to third parties provided in respect of trade loans These primarily relate to guarantees given by Grolsch to banks in relation to loans taken out by trade customers.
2 Litigation The group has a number of activities in a wide variety of geographic areas and is subject to certain legal claims incidental to its operations.
In the opinion of the directors, after taking appropriate legal advice, these claims are not expected to have, either individually or in aggregate, a material adverse effect upon the groups financial position, except insofar as already provided in the consolidated financial statements.
Other SABMiller and Altria entered into a tax matters agreement the Agreement on 30 May 2002, to regulate the conduct of tax matters between them with regard to the acquisition of Miller and to allocate responsibility for contingent tax costs.
SABMiller has agreed to indemnify Altria against any taxes, losses, liabilities and costs that Altria incurs arising out of or in connection with a breach by SABMiller of any representation, agreement or covenant in the Agreement, subject to certain exceptions.
The group has exposures to various environmental risks.
Although it is difficult to predict the groups liability with respect to these risks, future payments, if any, would be made over a period of time in amounts that would not be material to the groups financial position, except insofar as already provided in the consolidated financial statements.
134 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the world.
These schemes have been designed and are administered in accordance with local conditions and practices in the countries concerned and include both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
The majority of the schemes are funded and the schemes assets are held independently of the groups finances.
The assets of the schemes do not include any of the groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by or other assets used by the group.
Pension and post-retirement benefit costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent professionally qualified actuaries.
Generally, the projected unit method is applied to measure the defined benefit scheme liabilities.
The group also provides medical benefits, which are mainly unfunded, for retired employees and their dependants in South Africa, The Netherlands and Latin America.
The defined benefit pension plans and medical and other post-retirement benefit plans of the Miller Brewing Company were transferred to the MillerCoors joint venture on 30 June 2008.
The total pension and post-retirement medical benefit costs recognised in the income statement, and related net liabilities on the balance sheet are as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Defined contribution scheme costs 83 83 Defined benefit pension plan costs 23 16 Post-retirement medical and other benefit costs 13 19 Accruals for defined contribution plans balance sheet 3 2 Provisions for defined benefit pension plans balance sheet 187 137 Provisions for other post-retirement benefits balance sheet 103 80 The group operates various defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
Details of the main defined benefit schemes are provided below: South Africa pension schemes The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout South Africa.
Details of the major schemes are provided below: The ABI Pension Fund, Suncrush Pension Fund and Suncrush Retirement Fund are funded schemes of the defined benefit type based on average salary with assets held in separately administered funds.
The surplus apportionment schemes for the ABI Pension Fund, the Suncrush Pension Fund and Suncrush Retirement Fund have been approved by the Financial Services Board.
The active and pensioner liabilities in respect of the ABI Pension Fund and the Suncrush Retirement Fund have been settled.
The only liabilities are in respect of the surplus apportionment scheme and unclaimed benefits.
Once the surplus liabilities have been settled, the Funds will be deregistered and liquidated.
The Trustees have resolved that any surplus remaining in the Suncrush Retirement Fund should be transferred to the Suncrush Pension Fund, although this has not been approved.
Latin America pension schemes The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout Latin America.
Details of the major scheme are provided below: The Colombian Labour Code Pension Plan is an unfunded scheme of the defined benefit type and covers all salaried and hourly employees in Colombia who are not covered by social security or who have at least 10 years of service prior to 1 January 1967.
The plan is financed entirely through company reserves and there are no external assets.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Colombian Labour Code Pension Plan was carried out by independent professionally qualified actuaries at 28 February 2010 using the projected unit credit method.
All salaried employees are now covered by the social security provisions.
The principal economic assumptions used in the preparation of the pension valuations are shown below and take into consideration changes in the Colombian economy.
Grolsch pension scheme The Grolsch pension plan, named Stichting Pensioenfonds van fide Grolsche Bierbrouwerij, is a funded scheme of the defined benefit type, based on average salary with assets held in separately administered funds.
The latest valuation of the Grolsch pension fund was carried out at 31 March 2010 by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The principal assumptions used in the valuation are listed below.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 135 31.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued Principal actuarial assumptions at 31 March expressed as weighted averages Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits South Africa Latin America Grolsch Other South Africa Other %%%%%% At 31 March 2010 Discount rate 8.8 5.0 4.9 9.5 8.8 Salary inflation 4.0 2.5 3.6 Pension inflation 4.0 2.5 3.1 Healthcare cost inflation 8.0 4.0 Mortality rate assumptions Retirement age: Males 55 65 63 55 Females 50 65 63 50 Life expectations on retirement age: Retiring today: Males 20 21 16 20 Females 25 22 20 25 Retiring in 20 years: Males 22 16 Females 23 20 At 31 March 2009 Discount rate 10.7 5.8 5.4 9.0 10.7 Salary inflation 5.2 2.5 3.5 Pension inflation 5.2 2.5 3.0 Healthcare cost inflation 7.5 5.2 Mortality rate assumptions Retirement age: Males 55 65 63 55 Females 50 65 63 50 Life expectations on retirement age: Retiring today: Males 20 19 16 20 Females 25 21 20 25 Retiring in 20 years: Males 21 16 Females 22 20 The present value of defined benefit plan and post-employment medical benefit liabilities are as follows: Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits South Latin South Miller Africa America Grolsch Other Total Miller Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Present value of scheme liabilities at 1 April 2008 1,101 55 203 325 33 1,717 519 42 60 621 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is unfunded 13 200 24 237 519 42 60 621 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is partly or wholly funded 1,088 55 3 325 9 1,480 Benefits paid 15 19 18 10 4 66 7 7 14 Contributions paid by plan participants 1 2 1 1 1 2 Current service cost 3 2 7 3 112114 Past service costs 2 2 Interest costs 17 4 13 14 2 50845 17 Actuarial losses gains 6 8 17 49 1 53 1 1 Settlements and curtailments 6 2 1 5 Transfer to from other provisions 19 2 17 1 1 Contributed to joint venture 1,112 1,112 520 520 Exchange adjustments 8 44 50 5 107 8 16 24 Present value of scheme liabilities at 31 March 2009 40 109 241 29 419 38 42 80 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is unfunded 107 21 128 38 42 80 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is partly or wholly funded 40 2 241 8 291 Benefits paid 17 14 10 4 45 7 7 Contributions paid by plan participants 3 3 2 2 4 Current service cost 1528 123 Interest costs 4 13 14 1 32 4 4 8 Actuarial gains losses 7 5 43 41 4 4 Transfer to from other provisions 1 1 Exchange adjustments 11 35 3 2 51 14 9 23 Present value of scheme liabilities at 31 March 2010 31 148 299 31 509 59 44 103 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is unfunded 146 24 170 59 44 103 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is partly or wholly funded 31 2 299 7 339 136 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The fair value reconciliations of opening plan assets to closing plan assets, on an aggregated basis, are as follows: Defined benefit pension plans Miller South Africa Grolsch Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Plan assets at 1 April 2008 942 82 324 1,348 Expected return on plan assets 19 5 17 41 Benefits paid 15 19 10 44 Employer contributions 2 7 9 Actuarial losses 31 47 78 Settlements 1 1 Contributed to joint venture 917 917 Exchange adjustments 10 49 59 Plan assets at 31 March 2009 57 242 299 Expected return on plan assets 5 14 19 Benefits paid 18 10 28 Employer contributions 7 8 1 Actuarial gains 33 33 Exchange adjustments 16 4 20 Plan assets at 31 March 2010 53 291 344 The fair value of assets in pension schemes and the expected rates of return were: South Africa Latin America Grolsch Other Total Long-term Long-term Long-term Long-term US$m rate of return US$m rate of return US$m rate of return US$m rate of return US$m At 31 March 2010 Equities 1 12.0 90 8.0 91 Bonds 1 9.0 180 4.0 181 Cash 51 7.0 1 52 Property and other 20 20 Total fair value of assets 53 291 344 Present value of scheme liabilities 31 148 299 31 509 Surplus deficit in the scheme 22 148 8 31 165 Unrecognised pension asset due to limit 22 22 Pension liability recognised 148 8 31 187 At 31 March 2009 Equities 4 12.0 97 7.0 101 Bonds 145 5.0 145 Cash 50 7.0 50 Property and other 3 12.0 3 Total fair value of assets 57 242 299 Present value of scheme liabilities 40 109 241 29 419 Surplus deficit in the scheme 17 109 1 29 120 Unrecognised pension asset due to limit 17 17 Pension liability asset recognised 109 1 29 137 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 137 31.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits South Latin South Africa America Grolsch Other Total Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2010 Present value of scheme liabilities 31 148 299 31 509 59 44 103 Fair value of plan assets 53 291 344 22 148 8 31 165 59 44 103 Unrecognised assets due to limit 22 22 Net liability recognised on balance sheet 148 8 31 187 59 44 103 At 31 March 2009 Present value of scheme liabilities 40 109 241 29 419 38 42 80 Fair value of plan assets 57 242 299 17 109 1 29 120 38 42 80 Unrecognised assets due to limit 17 17 Net liability asset recognised on balance sheet 109 1 29 137 38 42 80 In respect of South Africa, the pension asset recognised must be limited to the extent that the employer is able to recover a surplus either through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the scheme.
The limit has been set equal to nil as the surplus apportionment exercise required in terms of the South African legislation has not yet been completed.
In addition, the net gain of US$1 million 2009: US$1 million which would be taken to the income statement and net actuarial gain which would be taken directly to other comprehensive income of US$7 million 2009: loss of US$8 million are not recognised in the financial statements.
The amounts recognised in net operating expenses in the income statement are as follows: Defined benefit pension plans Medical and other post-retirement benefits Latin South Miller America Grolsch Other Total Miller Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2010 Current service cost 1 5 2 8 1 2 3 Interest costs 13 15 1 29 4 6 10 Expected return on plan assets 14 14 14 6 3 23 5 8 13 At 31 March 2009 Current service cost 3 2 7 3 11 2 1 1 4 Past service cost 2 2 Interest costs 17 13 14 2 46 8 4 5 17 Expected return on plan assets 19 17 36 Settlements and curtailments 6 2 1 5 1 5 6 4 16 8 5 6 19 138 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are as follows: Defined benefit pension plans Medical and other post-retirement benefits Latin South Miller America Grolsch Other Total Miller Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2010 Actual return on plan assets 47 47 Less: expected return on plan assets 14 14 Experience gains losses arising on scheme assets 33 33 scheme liabilities 43 43 1 1 Changes in actuarial assumptions 6 6 3 4 1 Other actuarial gains 1 1 5 10 15 4 4 At 31 March 2009 Actual loss on plan assets 11 30 41 Less: expected return on plan assets 19 17 36 Experience losses gains arising on scheme assets 30 47 77 scheme liabilities 11 49 38 9 1 10 Changes in actuarial assumptions 4 17 1 22911 11 Other actuarial losses 2 2 37 17 2 1 17 1 1 The cumulative amounts recognised in other comprehensive income are as follows: 2010 2009 US$m US$m Cumulative actuarial losses recognised at beginning of year 160 142 Net actuarial losses recognised in the year 15 18 Cumulative actuarial losses recognised at end of year 175 160 History of actuarial gains and losses 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Experience gains losses of plan assets 33 77 90 28 31 Percentage of plan assets 10% 26% 7% 3% 3% Experience losses gains of scheme liabilities 44 28 2 62 4 Percentage of scheme liabilities 7% 6% 0% 3% 0% Fair value of plan assets 344 299 1,348 1,112 1,038 Present value of scheme liabilities 612 499 2,338 2,064 1,939 Deficit in the schemes 268 200 990 952 901 Unrecognised assets due to limit 22 17 27 47 73 Net liability recognised in balance sheet 290 217 1,017 999 974 Contributions expected to be paid into the groups major defined benefit schemes during the annual period after 31 March 2010 are US$22 million.
A 1% increase and a 1% decrease in the assumed healthcare cost of inflation will have the following effect on the groups major post-employment medical benefits: 2010 Increase Decrease US$m US$m Current service costs 1 Interest costs 2 1 Accumulated post-employment medical benefit costs 11 9 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 139 32.
Parties with significant influence over the group: Altria Group, Inc. Altria and the Santo Domingo Group SDG Altria is considered to be a related party of the group by virtue of its 27.2% equity shareholding.
There were no transactions with Altria during the year.
SDG is considered to be a related party of the group by virtue of its 14.2% equity shareholding in SABMiller plc.
During the year the group made a donation of US$30 million to the Fundacion Mario Santo Domingo 2009: US$69 million, pursuant to the contractual arrangements entered into at the time of the Bavaria transaction in 2005, under which it was agreed that the proceeds of the sale of surplus non-operating property assets owned by Bavaria SA and its subsidiaries would be donated to various charities, including the Fundacion Mario Santo Domingo.
At 31 March 2010, US$nil million 2009: US$nil was owing to the SDG.
Associates and joint ventures The MillerCoors joint venture is deemed to be a related party from 1 July 2008.
Transactions with the MillerCoors joint venture include the sale of hops and lager to and the purchase of lager from MillerCoors.
MillerCoors has also carried out contract brewing on behalf of group companies.
Further details relating to transactions with MillerCoors are included within the analysis of transactions with joint ventures below.
2010 2009 US$m US$m 1 Purchases from associates 193 251 2 Purchases from joint ventures 72 50 3 Sales to associates 28 44 4 Sales to joint ventures 44 28 5 Dividends received from associates 109 151 6 Dividends received from joint ventures 707 454 7 Royalties received 2 1 8 Management and guarantee fees 1 2 9 Receipt from sale of distribution rights 14 1 The group purchased canned Coca-Cola products for resale from Coca-Cola Canners of Southern Africa Pty Limited Coca-Cola Canners and purchased inventory from Distell Group Ltd Distell and Associated Fruit Processors Pty Ltd AFP in South Africa.
2 The group purchased lager from MillerCoors.
3 The group made sales of lager to Tsogo Sun Holdings Pty Ltd Tsogo Sun, Empresa Cervejas fide NGola SARL ECN, Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales and Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltd Castel, Delta Corporation Ltd and Distell.
4 The group made sales to MillerCoors and Pacific Beverages Pty Ltd. 5 The group received dividends from Castel of US$40 million 2009: US$39 million, Kenya Breweries Ltd US$11 million 2009: US$15 million, Coca-Cola Canners US$5 million 2009: US$4 million, Distell US$19 million 2009: US$17 million, Tsogo Sun US$28 million 2009: US$73 million, ECN US$3 million 2009: US$nil and Grolsch UK Ltd of US$3 million 2009: US$3 million.
6 The group received dividends from MillerCoors.
7 The group received royalties from MillerCoors and Pacific Beverages Pty Ltd. 8 The group paid management and guarantee fees to MillerCoors.
9 The group sold distribution rights to MillerCoors.
2010 2009 At 31 March US$m US$m 1 Amounts owed by associates 3 27 2 Amounts owed by joint ventures 4 2 3 Amounts owed to associates 38 25 4 Amounts owed to joint ventures 23 29 1 Amounts owed by Grolsch UK Ltd, Castel and AFP.
2 Amounts owed by MillerCoors and Pacific Beverages Pty Ltd. 3 Amounts owed to Coca-Cola Canners.
c. Transactions with key management The group has a related party relationship with the directors of the group and members of the excom as key management.
At 31 March 2010, there were 25 2009: 23 members of key management.
Key management compensation is provided in note 6c.
140 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures The principal subsidiary undertakings of the group as at 31 March were as follows: Effective interest in ordinary share capital Name Country of incorporation Principal activity 2010 2009 Corporate SABMiller Holdings Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% 1 SABMiller Finance BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABSA Holdings Pty Ltd South Africa Holding company 100% 100% 1 SABMiller Africa and Asia BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller International BV Netherlands Trademark owner 100% 100% SABMiller Latin America Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% Latin American operations 2 Bavaria SA Colombia Brewing Soft drinks 99% 99% Cervecera Unon SA Colombia Brewing 98% 98% Cervecera del Valle SA Colombia Brewing 99% 99% 2 Union fide Cerveceras Peruanas Backus y Johnston SAA Peru Brewing 93% 93% 2 Cervecera San Juan SA Peru Brewing Soft drinks 86% 86% 2 Cervecera Nacional CN SA Ecuador Brewing 96% 95% 3 Latin Development Corporation Panama Holding company 99% 2 Cervecera Nacional SA Panama Brewing 97% 97% Bevco Ltd British Virgin Islands Holding company 100% 100% Cervecera Hondurea, SA fide CV Honduras Brewing Soft drinks 99% 99% Industrias La Constancia, SA fide CV El Salvador Brewing Soft drinks 100% 100% European operations 1 SABMiller Europe BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Holdings Europe Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% S. p. A. Birra Peroni Italy Brewing 100% 100% Ursus Breweries SA Romania Brewing 99% 99% Compania Cervecera fide Canarias SA Spain Brewing 51% 51% Dreher Srgyrak Zrt Hungary Brewing 100% 100% SABMiller RUS LLC Russia Brewing 100% 100% 4 Kompania Piwowarska SA Poland Brewing 100% 72% Plzesk Prazdroj as Czech Republic Brewing 100% 100% Miller Brands UK Ltd United Kingdom Sales and distribution 100% 100% Pivovary Topvar as Slovakia Brewing 100% 100% Grolsche Bierbrouwerij Nederland BV Netherlands Brewing 100% 100% CJSC Sarmat Ukraine Brewing 100% 100% SABMiller Netherlands Cooperative WA Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% North American operations SABMiller Holdings Inc USA Holding company 100% 100% Miller Brewing Company USA Holding company 100% 100% African operations SABMiller Africa BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% SABMiller Botswana BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% SABMiller A&A Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Investments II BV Netherlands Holding company 80% 2 Accra Breweries Ltd Ghana Brewing 43% 43% Ambo International Holdings Ltd Mauritius Holding company 60% Ambo Mineral Water Share Company Ethiopia Soft drinks 40% Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd Botswana Sorghum brewing 31% 31% 2 Cervejas fide Moambique SARL Mozambique Brewing 49% 49% Coca-Cola Bottling Luanda SARL Angola Soft drinks 28% 28% Coca-Cola Bottling Sul fide Angola SARL Angola Soft drinks 37% 37% Chibuku Products Ltd Malawi Sorghum brewing 31% 31% Heinrichs Syndicate Ltd Zambia Soft drinks 62% 62% Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd Botswana Brewing Soft drinks 31% 31% Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 141 33.
Principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continued Effective interest in ordinary share capital Name Country of incorporation Principal activity 2010 2009 African operations continued Lesotho Brewing Company Pty Ltd Lesotho Brewing Soft drinks 24% 24% 2 National Breweries plc Zambia Sorghum brewing 43% 43% Nile Breweries Ltd Uganda Brewing 60% 60% Pabod Breweries Ltd Nigeria Brewing 57% 57% Rwenzori Bottling Company Ltd Uganda Soft drinks 80% Southern Sudan Beverages Ltd Sudan Brewing 80% 80% Swaziland Brewers Ltd Swaziland Brewing 37% 37% 2 Tanzania Breweries Ltd Tanzania Brewing 33% 33% Voltic International Inc British Virgin Islands Holding company 80% 80% Voltic GH Ltd Ghana Soft drinks 80% 80% Voltic Nigeria Ltd Nigeria Soft drinks 80% 80% 2 Zambian Breweries plc Zambia Brewing Soft drinks 54% 54% Asian operations SABMiller Asia BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Asia Ltd Hong Kong Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller A&A 2 Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller India Ltd India Holding company 100% 100% Skol Breweries Ltd India Brewing 99% 99% SABMiller Breweries Private Ltd India Brewing 100% 100% SABMiller Vietnam Company Ltd Vietnam Brewing 100% 100% South African operations The South African Breweries Ltd South Africa Brewing Soft drinks Holding company 100% 100% The South African Breweries Hop Farms Pty Ltd South Africa Hop farming 100% 100% The South African Breweries Maltings Pty Ltd South Africa Maltsters 100% 100% Appletiser South Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Fruit juices 100% 100% 1 Operates and resident for tax purposes in the United Kingdom.
2 Listed in country of incorporation.
3 This entity was merged into Bavaria SA on 27 April 2009.
4 SABMiller Poland BV, a wholly owned subsidiary of the group, held 100% of Kompania Piwowarska SA at 31 March 2010 31 March 2009: 71.9%.
The group comprises a large number of companies.
The list above includes those subsidiary undertakings which materially affect the profit or net assets of the group, or a business segment, together with the principal intermediate holding companies of the group.
With the exception of those noted above, the principal country in which each of the above subsidiary undertakings operates is the same as the country in which each is incorporated.
Where the groups nominal interest in the equity share capital of an undertaking is less than 50%, the basis on which the undertaking is a subsidiary undertaking of the group is as follows: African operations The groups effective interest in the majority of its African operations was diluted as a result of the disposal of a 38% interest in SABMiller Africa BV on 1 April 2001, in exchange for a 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests.
Investments in new territories are generally being made with the Castel groups African beverage operations on an 80:20 basis.
The operations continue to be consolidated due to SABMiller Africa BVs and SABMiller Investments II BVs majority shareholdings, and ability to control the operations.
Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd and Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd SABMiller Africa holds a 40% interest in each of Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd and Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd with the remaining 60% interest in each held by Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. SABMiller Africas shares entitle the holder to twice the voting rights of those shares held by Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. SABMiller Africas 10.1% indirect interest 2009: 10.1% is held via a 16.8% interest 2009: 16.8% in Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. Lesotho Brewing Company Pty Ltd Lesotho Brewing SABMiller Africa holds a 39% interest in Lesotho Brewing with the remaining interest held by a government authority, the Lesotho National Development Corporation 51%, and the Commonwealth Development Corporation 10%.
Lesotho Brewing is treated as a subsidiary undertaking based on the groups ability to control its operations through its board representation.
The day to day business operations are managed in accordance with a management agreement with Bevman Services AG, a group company.
Coca-Cola Bottling Luanda SARL CCBL SABMiller Africa is the largest shareholder in CCBL with a 45% holding.
Management control is exercised through a contractual agreement with Bevman Services AG, a group company.
142 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continued Associates and joint ventures The principal associates and joint ventures of the group as at 31 March are as set out below.
Where the groups interest in an associate or a joint venture is held by a subsidiary undertaking which is not wholly owned by the group, the subsidiary undertaking is indicated in a note below.
Effective interest in ordinary share capital Country of Nature of Name incorporation relationship Principal activity 2010 2009 European operations Grolsch UK Ltd United Kingdom Associate Brewing 50% 50% North American operations 1 MillerCoors LLC USA Joint venture Brewing 58% 58% African operations 2, 3 Delta Corporation Ltd Zimbabwe Associate Brewing Soft drinks 23% 22% 3, 4 Kenya Breweries Ltd Kenya Associate Brewing 12% 12% 5 Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales France Associate Holding company for subsidiaries principally located in Africa 20% 20% 5 Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltd Gibraltar Associate Holding company for subsidiaries principally located in Africa 20% 20% 5, 6 Marocaine dInvestissements et fide Services Morocco Associate Brewing 40% 40% 5, 7 Socit fide Boissons fide IOuest, Algerien Algeria Associate Soft drinks 40% 40% 5, 7 Skikda Bottling Company Algeria Associate Soft drinks 40% 40% 5, 7 Socit des Nouvelles Brasseries Algeria Associate Brewing 40% 40% 5, 7 Algerienne fide Bavaroise Algeria Associate Brewing 40% 40% Empresa Cervejas fide NGola SARL Angola Associate Brewing 28% 28% Asian operations 5 China Resources Snow Breweries Ltd British Virgin Islands Associate Holding company for brewing subsidiaries located in China 49% 49% 5 Pacific Beverages Pty Ltd Australia Joint venture Sales and distribution 50% 50% South African operations 5 Coca-Cola Canners of Southern Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Associate Canning of beverages 32% 32% 2, 4 Distell Group Ltd South Africa Associate Wines and spirits 29% 29% Hotels and Gaming Tsogo Sun Holdings Pty Ltd South Africa Associate Holding company for Hotels and Gaming operations 49% 49% 1 SABMiller shares joint control of MillerCoors with Molson Coors Brewing Company under a shareholders agreement.
Under the agreement SABMiller is entitled to a 58% economic interest in MillerCoors and Molson Coors has a 42% economic interest.
3 Interests in these companies are held by SABMiller Africa BV which is held 62% by SABMiller Holdings Ltd. 4 These entities report their financial results for each 12 month period ending 30 June.
5 These entities report their financial results for each 12 month period ending 31 December.
6 SABMiller acquired a 25% direct interest in this holding company on 18 March 2004 which has controlling interests in three breweries, a malting plant and a wet depot in Morocco.
This 25% interest together with its 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests, gives SABMiller an effective participation of 40% and the other 60% is held by the Castel groups Africa beverage interests.
7 Effective 18 March 2004, SABMiller acquired 25% of the Castel groups holding in these entities.
Together with its 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests, this gives SABMiller participation on a 40:60 basis with the Castel group.
The principal country in which each of the above associated undertakings operates is the same as the country in which each is incorporated.
However, Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales and Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltds Castel principal subsidiaries are in Africa and China Resources Snow Breweries Ltds principal subsidiaries are in the Peoples Republic of China.
