158 Definitions SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Definitions Financial definitions Adjusted earnings Group revenue Adjusted earnings are calculated by adjusting headline earnings This comprises revenue together with the groups share of revenue as defined below for the amortisation of intangible assets excluding from associates and joint ventures.
software, integration and restructuring costs, the fair value movements in relation to capital items for which hedge accounting cannot be Headline earnings applied and other items which have been treated as exceptional but Headline earnings are calculated by adjusting profit for the financial not included above or as headline earnings adjustments together with period attributable to equity holders of the parent for items in the groups share of joint ventures and associates adjustments for accordance with the South African Circular 8 2007 entitled Headline similar items.
The tax and minority interests in respect of these items Earnings.
Such items include impairments of non-current assets and are also adjusted.
profits or losses on disposals of non-current assets and their related tax and minority interests.
This also includes the groups share of Adjusted net finance costs associates and joint ventures adjustments on the same basis.
This comprises net finance costs excluding fair value movements in relation to capital items for which hedge accounting cannot be Interest cover applied and any exceptional finance charges or income.
This is the ratio of normalised EBITDA to adjusted net finance costs.
Adjusted profit before tax Net debt This comprises EBITA less adjusted net finance costs and less the This comprises gross debt including borrowings, borrowings-related groups share of associates and joint ventures net finance costs derivative financial instruments, overdrafts and finance leases net of on a similar basis.
cash and cash equivalents excluding overdrafts.
Constant currency Normalised EBITDA Constant currency results have been determined by translating the This comprises EBITDA together with dividends received from local currency denominated results for the year ended 31 March at MillerCoors.
the exchange rates for the prior year.
Normalised EBITDA margin EBITA This is calculated by expressing normalised EBITDA as a percentage This comprises operating profit before exceptional items, amortisation of revenue plus the groups share of MillerCoors revenue.
of intangible assets excluding software and includes the groups share of associates and joint ventures operating profit on a similar basis.
Organic information Organic results and volumes exclude the first 12 months results and EBITA margin % volumes relating to acquisitions and the last 12 months results and This is calculated by expressing EBITA as a percentage of group revenue.
EBITDA Total Shareholder Return TSR This comprises the net cash generated from operations before working TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided for capital movements.
This includes cash flows relating to exceptional its shareholders, reflecting share price movements and assuming items.
EBITDA margin % Sales volumes This is calculated by expressing EBITDA as a percentage of revenue.
In the determination and disclosure of sales volumes, the group aggregates 100% of the volumes of all consolidated subsidiaries Effective tax rate % and its equity accounted percentage of all associates and joint The effective tax rate is calculated by expressing tax before tax on ventures volumes.
Contract brewing volumes are excluded from exceptional items and on amortisation of intangible assets excluding volumes although revenue from contract brewing is included within software, including the groups share of associates and joint ventures group revenue.
Volumes exclude intra-group sales volumes.
This tax on the same basis, as a percentage of adjusted profit before tax.
measure of volumes is used for lager volumes, soft drinks volumes, other alcoholic beverage volumes and beverage volumes and is Free cash flow used in the segmental analyses as it more closely aligns with the This comprises net cash generated from operating activities less cash consolidated group revenue and EBITA disclosures.
paid for the purchase of property, plant and equipment, intangible In the determination and disclosure of aggregated sales volumes, the assets and shares from minorities, net investments in associates group aggregates 100% of the volumes of all consolidated subsidiaries, and joint ventures and dividends paid to minority interests plus cash associated companies and joint ventures.
Contract brewing volumes received from the sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible are excluded from aggregated volumes although revenue from contract assets and dividends received.
brewing is included within group revenue.
Aggregated volumes exclude intra-group sales volumes.
This measure is used for aggregated beverage volumes and for aggregated lager volumes.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Definitions 159 KPI definitions How we measure Total Shareholder Return TSR versus median of peer group EBITA margin over three-year periods EBITA margin is defined on page 158.
TSR performance is measured by taking the percentage growth in our TSR over the three-year period to the date aligned with the Hectolitres of water used at our breweries per hectolitre related vesting date of performance share awards for the excom, of lager produced and deducting the percentage growth in the TSR of the median Water used at our breweries divided by the volume of lager produced.
of our peer group over the same period.
All consolidated subsidiaries are included on a 100% basis together with the equity accounted percentage share of the MillerCoors joint venture.
Growth in adjusted earnings per share EPS Growth in adjusted EPS is measured by comparing the adjusted Fossil fuel emissions from energy used at our breweries EPS for the current year with that of the prior year.
Adjusted EPS is per hectolitre of lager produced measured using adjusted earnings divided by the basic number of Fossil fuel emissions are measured by the total amount of carbon shares in issue.
Adjusted earnings are measured using the definition dioxide CO in kilogrammes generated by our breweries divided 2 on page 158. by the volume of lager produced.
The total amount of CO is the 2 sum of direct emissions produced by the combustion of fuel e. g. Free cash flow coal, oil, gas and indirect emissions from the use of electricity and Free cash flow is measured using the definition on page 158. steam.
Emissions are calculated using the internationally recognised WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
All consolidated subsidiaries Proportion of our total lager volume from markets in which we are included on a 100% basis together with the equity accounted have No.
2 national market share positions percentage share of the MillerCoors joint venture.
Lager volumes generated in markets where we have a number one or number two national beer market share position divided by total Cumulative financial benefits from our business lager volumes.
Lager volumes are measured as defined on page 158. capability programme Incremental cash flows generated as a result of the adoption of new Proportion of group EBITA from developing and emerging processes and systems including incremental revenues, reduced cost economies of goods sold and overheads, reduced investment in working capital EBITA generated in developing and emerging economies divided by and lower cost of capital investments.
group EBITA before corporate costs.
Developing and emerging economies are as defined by the International KPI explanation of changes Monetary Fund IMF.
The group has reviewed its key performance indicators during the year.
As a consequence, a number of new KPIs have been Organic growth in lager volumes introduced and are presented in this Annual Report.
The changes Organic growth in lager volumes is measured by comparing lager reflect an increased focus on cash generation and total shareholder volumes in the year with those in the prior year excluding the effects return: the implementation of the business capability programme: of acquisitions and disposals organic information is defined on page and the groups new target for reduction in fossil fuel emissions.
Lager volumes are measured as defined on page 158.
They also recognise the importance attached to the groups position in developing and emerging markets and to leading market share Group revenue growth organic, constant currency positions in individual country markets.
As the reporting of premium Growth in group revenue compared to the prior year is measured on and international premium brand performance is currently under a constant currency basis as defined on page 158 and excluding the review, no group KPI has been presented in this Annual Report.
effects of acquisitions and disposals organic information is defined on page 158.
Group revenue is defined on page 158.
EBITA growth organic, constant currency EBITA growth compared to the prior year is measured on a constant currency basis as defined on page 158 and excluding the effects of acquisitions and disposals organic information is defined on page 158.
160 Definitions SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Definitions continued Non-financial definitions Combined Code The Combined Code on Corporate Governance, published by the UK Financial Reporting Council.
Economy segment Taking the leading brand in the most popular pack type as the standard 100, brands with a weighted average market price which fall below an index of 90 form the economy segment.
Normally, all brands in this segment will be local brands.
International brewers index The index of International brewers charts the share price progression of an index of the companys closest peers in the global brewing industry Anheuser-Busch InBev Anheuser-Busch and InBev included separately, until the acquisition of Anheuser-Busch by InBev on 17 November 2008, Carlsberg, Heineken and Molson Coors, relative to 1 April 2005.
The index is weighted relative to the market capitalisation of the brewers as at 1 April 2005.
Mainstream segment Taking the leading brand in the most popular pack type as the standard 100, the mainstream segment is formed of brands with a weighted average market price which fall into the 90-109 band.
Mainstream brands tend to be local.
PET PET is short for polyethylene terephthalate, a form of plastic which is used for bottling alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks.
Premium segment worthmore segment in the USA Taking the leading brand in the most popular pack type as the standard 100, brands with a weighted average market price which have an index of 110 form the premium segment.
The premium segment comprises both local and international brands.
STRATE STRATE stands for Share Transactions Totally Electronic and is an unlisted company owned by JSE Limited and Central Securities Depository Participants CSDP and exists to allow share transactions in South Africa to be settled electronically.
