162 Shareholders diary SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Shareholders diary Financial reporting calendar and annual general meeting Annual general meeting July Announcement of interim results, for half-year to September November Preliminary announcement of annual results May Annual financial statements published June Dividends Declared Paid Ordinary: Interim November December Final May August Unsolicited investment advice warning to shareholders Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas-based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
A 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA reported that the average amount lost by investors was around 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free reports into the company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved.
uk register The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors and any approach from such organisations should be reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate action can be considered.
Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0300 500 5000 or by completing an online form at: http: www.
uk news scams share scams.
html If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
South African shareholders may report such approaches to the Financial Services Board FSB on: Toll Free: 0800 110443 Facsimile: 012 347 0221 E-mail: Info@fsb.
co. za Complete the FSB online complaint form which can be found on their website www.
