164 Cautionary statement SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Cautionary statement This document does not constitute an offer to sell or issue or the solicitation of an offer to buy or acquire ordinary shares in the capital of SABMiller plc the company or any other securities of the company in any jurisdiction or an inducement to enter into investment activity.
This document includes forward-looking statements with respect to certain of SABMiller plcs plans, current goals and expectations relating to its future financial condition, performance and results.
These statements contain the words anticipate, believe, intend, estimate, expect and words of similar meaning.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this document, including, without limitation, those regarding the companys financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations including development plans and objectives relating to the companys products and services are forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions regarding the companys present and future business strategies and the environment in which the company will operate in the future.
These forward-looking statements speak only as at the date of this document.
The company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in the companys expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
The past business and financial performance of SABMiller plc is not to be relied on as an indication of its future performance.
SGS-COC-0620 This paper is made from 100% post-consumer recycled fibre.
It has been certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC and it is produced at a mill that is certified to the ISO 14001 environmental management standards, through a totally chlorine free process TCF.
The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
Printed by The Pureprint Group, ISO 14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral Designed by Likemind www.
com SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Annual Report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 Sustainable Development Report 2010 www.
com This report is also available on our website, This report is available on our website, For more information on the group and go to www.
com annualreport go to www.
com sdreporting latest news, go to www.
