Statutory Information 9 Statement of Directors Responsibility in Respect of the Group Financial Statements The directors are responsible for preparing the The directors are responsible for keeping adequate Annual Report and the group and parent company accounting records that are sufficient to show and financial statements in accordance with applicable law explain the parent companys transactions and disclose and regulations.
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to Company law requires the directors to prepare group ensure that its financial statements comply with the and parent company financial statements for each Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility financial year.
Under that law they are required to for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to prepare the group financial statements in accordance safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law detect fraud and other irregularities.
and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Under applicable law and regulations, the directors Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Accounting Practice.
Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and Under company law the directors must not approve those regulations.
the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of The directors are responsible for the maintenance and the group and parent company and of their profit or integrity of the corporate and financial information loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and included on the companys website.
Legislation in parent company financial statements, the directors are the UK governing the preparation and dissemination required to: of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
