Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Directors Responsibility Statement and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law We confirm that, to the best of our knowledge: and regulations.
1. the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of Company law requires the Directors to prepare such Financial the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Statements for each financial year.
Under the law the Directors Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation are required to prepare Group Financial Statements in accordance taken as a whole: and with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The 2. the Operating and Financial Review, which is incorporated into Directors have also chosen to prepare the parent Company Financial the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development Statements under IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Under and performance of the business and the position of the company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for risks and uncertainties that they face.
In preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors By order of the Board are required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner Mark Rollins Simon Nicholls that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director information: 25 February 2011 25 February 2011 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
46 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
