Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General information Serco Group plc the Group is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered ofce is Serco House, 16 Bartley Wood Business Park, Bartley Way, Hook, Hampshire, RG27 9UY.
These Consolidated Financial Statements the Financial Statements are presented in pounds Sterling because this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
2. significant accounting policies Basis of accounting These Financial Statements on pages 105 to 160 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis.
The following principal accounting policies adopted have been applied consistently in the current and preceding financial year except as stated below.
As discussed in more detail in the Finance Review, these Financial Statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Adoption of new and revised Standards In the current year, the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted and have affected the amounts reported in these Financial Statements.
IFRS 3 2008 Business Combinations IFRS 3 2008 includes a number of significant changes to the accounting for business combinations.
All acquisition costs are now required to be expensed as incurred, rather than capitalised as part of the cost of acquisitions.
Any changes to the cost of an acquisition resulting from an event taking place after the date of acquisition, including those arising from adjustments to contingent consideration, are required to be recognised in the income statement rather than in goodwill.
Any adjustments to contingent consideration in respect of acquisitions made prior to 1 January 2010 will continue to be accounted for under IFRS 3 2004.
Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements The amendments to IAS 27 affect the treatment of acquisitions and disposals achieved in stages, and focus on whether or not this results in a change in control.
Acquisitions and disposals that do not result in a change in control are accounted for within reserves, and goodwill is not re-measured.
Where control is lost, all assets, liabilities and non-controlling interests are derecognised, and the resulting gain or loss, after any proceeds, is recognised in profit or loss.
The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these Financial Statements but may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
IAS 28 2008 Investments in Associates The revisions to IAS 28 require that where there is a loss of significant inuence over an associate, the investor measures any investment retained in the former associate at fair value, with any consequential gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items This amendment provides clarification on two aspects of hedge accounting: identifying ination as a hedged risk or portion, and hedging with options.
IFRS 1 revised First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and Amendments to IFRS 1 Additional Exemptions for First-time Adopters These amendments provide additional exemptions on first-time adoption of IFRS, in relation to oil and gas assets and leases.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions These amendments provide clarification on the scope of IFRS 2, as well as the accounting for group cash-settled share-based payment transactions in the separate financial statements of the entity receiving the goods or services when another group entity of shareholder has the obligation to settle the award.
IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners This Interpretation provides guidance on the appropriate accounting treatment when an entity distributes assets other than cash as dividends to its shareholders.
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers This Interpretation addresses the accounting by recipients for transfers of property, plant and equipment from customers and concludes that when the item of property, plant and equipment transferred meets the denition of an asset from the perspective of the recipient, the recipient should recognise the asset at its fair value on the date of the transfer, with the credit being recognised as revenue in accordance with IAS 18.
Improvements to IFRSs April 2009 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 109 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2. significant accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries and entities jointly controlled by the Company its joint ventures made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries and joint ventures acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries and joint ventures to bring accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders equity.
Changes in segmental information From the start of 2010 the Group repositioned its business to maximise the focus on growth and opportunities and to ensure that it maintains a exible and devolved organisation which is responsive to its customers needs.
From 1 January 2010, the Group reorganised its business into five new divisions, focused on the Groups principal markets: Civil Government: Local Government and Commercial: Defence, Science and Nuclear: Americas: and AMEAA.
The key changes arising from its previous segments are as follows: Civil Government, the UK and Europe Healthcare, Home Affairs and Welfare to Work business, is included in the new Civil Government division: the UK and Europe Consulting, Education, Integrated Services, IT and BPO businesses are part of the new Local Government and Commercial division: and the Civil Government businesses in North America and the rest of the world are allocated to the Americas and AMEAA divisions respectively.
Defence has transferred to Defence, Science and Nuclear, with the exception of those businesses operating in the geographical regions of Americas and AMEAA.
Transport has been transferred to Civil Government, with the exception of businesses operating in the geographical regions of Americas and AMEAA.
Science has transferred to Defence, Science and Nuclear.
As a consequence of these changes, previously published financial information has been restated.
Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition date fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period which is subject to a maximum of one year adjustments.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classied as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with the relevant accounting standards.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classied as equity are not recognised.
The acquirees identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except where a different treatment is mandated by another standard.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest and the fair value of any previously held equity interest in the acquired entity, over the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identiable assets and liabilities acquired.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest and the fair value of any previously held equity interest in the acquired entity, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Any adjustments to contingent consideration in respect of acquisitions made prior to 1 January 2010 will continue to be reected in goodwill in accordance with IFRS 3 2004.
110 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 2. significant accounting policies continued Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly-controlled entity, at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly-controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Investments in joint ventures The Groups investments in joint ventures are reported in the financial statements using the proportionate consolidation method, whereby the Groups share of each of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of its joint ventures is combined line by line with similar items in the Groups financial statements or reported as separate line items within the Groups financial statements.
Property, plant and equipment Assets held for use in the rendering of services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance sheet at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates designed to reduce the assets to their residual value over their estimated useful lives.
The principal annual rates used are: Freehold buildings 2.5% Short-leasehold building improvements The higher of 10% or the rate produced by the lease term Machinery 15% - 20% Motor vehicles 10% - 50% Furniture 10% Ofce equipment 20% - 33% Leased equipment The higher of the rate produced by the lease term or useful life The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 111 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2. significant accounting policies continued Other intangible assets Customer relationships represent the value of contracts acquired on the acquisition of subsidiaries and are amortised over the average length of contracts.
Development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset only if all of the following conditions are met: O an asset is created that can be separately identied: O it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benets: and O the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Purchased software and development expenditure is amortised over the period in which the Group is expected to benefit.
This period is between three to eight years, or the length of the contract if longer.
Provision is also made for any impairment.
All other development expenditure is written off as incurred.
Assets under the course of construction are not depreciated.
Licences comprise premiums paid for the acquisition of licences, which are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the licence.
Franchises represent costs incurred in obtaining franchise rights and franchise goodwill arising on the acquisition of franchises.
These are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the franchise.
Pension related intangibles represent assets arising in relation to the Groups right to manage and operate contracts where there is a dened benefit pension scheme and it is not virtually certain that contributions will be recovered from the customer but where the Groups obligation to contribute to the scheme ends when the contract ends.
The intangible assets represent the Groups share of scheme net liabilities on the date that contracts commence and are amortised on a straight-line basis over the contract life.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets Annually, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash ows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
A CGU is the smallest group of assets that generates cash inows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash ows of other assets or groups of assets.
For the purpose of impairment testing, the goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset for which the estimates of future cash ows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit group of units on a pro-rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or CGU in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Impairment losses and reversals are included within administrative expenses within the consolidated income statement.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts due for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Revenue on repeat service-based contracts is recognised as services are provided.
Revenue from long-term project-based contracts is recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy below.
112 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 2. significant accounting policies continued Long-term project-based and repeat service contracts The Group has a number of long-term contracts for the provision of complex, project-based services.
Where the outcome of such long-term project-based contracts can be measured reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts.
This is measured by the proportion of contract costs incurred for work performed to date compared to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the customer, or are virtually certain of being received.
Where the outcome of a long-term project-based contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs that are probable to be recovered.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that the total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
All bid costs are expensed through the income statement up to the point where contract award or full recovery of costs is virtually certain.
Bid costs incurred after this point are then capitalised within trade and other receivables.
On contract award these bid costs are amortised through the income statement over the contract period by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
Phase in costs directly related to phase in programmes of contracts are treated as an integral part of contract costs and are recognised on a straightline basis over the life of the contract.
Segmental information Segmental information is based on internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker in order to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
Items excluded from segments comprise corporate expenses.
Specic corporate expenses are allocated to the corresponding segments.
Segment assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade and other receivables excluding corporation tax recoverable and any retirement benefit asset.
Liabilities comprise trade and other payables and retirement benefit obligations.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and comprise service spares, parts awaiting installation and long-term project-based contract balances.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Leases Leases are classied as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at fair value or, if lower, at the present value of minimum lease payments determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income, unless they are directly attributable to a qualifying asset, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs see below.
Total rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than Sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate prevailing on the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the net profit or loss for the period, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income SOCI.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised directly within equity in the Groups hedging and translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 113 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2. significant accounting policies continued Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
5HWLUHPHQW EHQHW FRVWV Payments to dened contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
For dened benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benets is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial cost method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the income statement and are presented in the SOCI.
The current service cost represents the increase in the present value of the plan liabilities expected to arise from employee service in the current period.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benets are already vested, and is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefit becomes vested.
Gains and losses on curtailments or settlements are recognised in the period in which the curtailment or settlement occurs.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the dened benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The economic benefit from refunds is only recognised to the extent that the Group has an unconditional right to receive a refund.
To the extent that an economic benefit is available as a reduction in contributions and there is a minimum funding requirement, the economic benefit available as a reduction in contributions is calculated at the present value of: a the estimated future service cost in each year: less b the estimated minimum funding contributions required in respect of the future accrual and benets in that year.
Dened benefit obligations arising from contractual obligations Where the Group takes on a contract and assumes the obligation to contribute variable amounts to the dened benefit pension scheme throughout the period of the contract and it is not virtually certain that the contributions will be recovered from the customer, the Groups share of the dened benefit obligation less its share of the pension scheme assets that it will fund over the period of the contract is recognised as a liability at the start of the contract with a corresponding amount being recognised as an intangible asset.
The intangible asset, which reects the Groups right to manage and operate the contract, is amortised over the contract period.
The Groups share of the scheme assets and liabilities is calculated by reducing the scheme assets and liabilities by a franchise adjustment.
The franchise adjustment represents the amount of scheme deficits that will be funded outside the contract period.
Subsequent actuarial gains and losses in relation to the Groups share of pension obligations are recognised outside the income statement and are presented in the SOCI.
Where the Group takes on a contract and assumes the obligation to contribute variable amounts to the dened benefit pension scheme throughout the period of the contract and it is virtually certain that the contributions will be recovered from the customer, the Groups share of the dened benefit obligation less its share of the pension scheme assets are recognised as a liability at the start of the contract with a corresponding amount being recognised as a financial asset at fair value, being the fair value of the reimbursable rights.
In the consolidated income statement, the expense relating to the dened benefit plan is presented net of the amount recognised for reimbursement.
The change in fair value of the reimbursable rights that is not presented in the income statement is reported in the SOCI.
Multi-employer pension schemes Multi-employer pension schemes are classied as a dened contribution pension scheme or a dened benefit pension scheme under the terms of the scheme.
When sufficient information is not available to use dened benefit accounting for a multi-employer dened benefit pension scheme, the Group accounts for the scheme as if it were a dened contribution scheme.
114 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 2. significant accounting policies continued Tax The tax expense represents the sum of current tax expense and deferred tax expense.
Current tax expense is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for accounting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which these items can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset and liability in a transaction other than a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based upon tax rates and legislation that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority where the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Research and development costs Expenditure on research is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Development costs are expensed in the period in which the costs are incurred unless the criteria for capitalisation is met see other intangible assets policy.
Share-based payment The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment amended January 2008.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were not fully vested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group makes equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees and operates an HMRC approved Save As You Earn SAYE share option scheme open to eligible employees which allows the purchase of shares at a discount.
These are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
SAYE options are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme, resulting in an acceleration of the remainder of the related expense.
Where the fair value of share options requires the use of a valuation model, fair value is measured by use of the Binomial Lattice or Monte Carlo Simulation models depending on the type of scheme, as set out in note 33.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Where relevant, the value of the option has also been adjusted to take account of market conditions applicable to the option.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the contract.
significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that a trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is based on managements best estimate of the likelihood of the recoverable amount.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance for doubtful debts and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within administrative expenses.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance for doubtful debts.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against administrative expenses.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 115 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2. significant accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignicant changes in value and have a maturity of three months or less.
This denition is also used for the consolidated cash ow statement.
Dividends Dividends are recorded in the Groups consolidated financial statements in the period in which they are declared, appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Loans Loans are initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction of issue costs.
The carrying amount of loans hedged by derivatives is increased by the finance cost in respect of the accounting period and reduced by payments made in the period.
Loans which are unhedged are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest-rate method.
Accrued interest is recorded separately from the associated borrowings within current liabilities.
Loans are described as non recourse loans and classied as such only if no Group company other than the relevant borrower has an obligation, under a guarantee or other arrangement, to repay the debt.
'HULYDWLYH QDQFLDO LQVWUXPHQWV DQG KHGJLQJ DFWLYLWLHV The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage the exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risk, including foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are given in note 25.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a financial liability.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or rm commitments fair value hedges, hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency risk of rm commitments cash ow hedges, or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Hedge accounting The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives, embedded derivatives and non-derivatives in respect of foreign exchange risk, as either fair value hedges, cash ow hedges, or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Hedges of foreign exchange risk on rm commitments are accounted for as cash ow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash ows of the hedged item.
Details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes and movements in the hedging and translation reserve in equity are detailed in the SOCI and described in note 25.
Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the line of the income statement relating to the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualies for hedge accounting.
The adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is amortised to profit or loss from that date.
116 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 2. significant accounting policies continued Cash ow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges are deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a nonfinancial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash ow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity and accumulated in the hedging and translation reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is included in the net exchange gain loss on translation of foreign operations line item.
Gains and losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve are reclassied to profit or loss in the same way as exchange differences relating to the foreign operations.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
New standards and interpretations not applied At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these Financial Statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : O IAS 24 revised Related Party Disclosures O Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation: Classication of Rights Issues O Amendments to IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters O Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures O IFRS 9 Financial Instruments O Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayment of a Minimum Funding Requirement O IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments O Improvements to IFRSs May 2010 The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application, with the exception of amounts reported and disclosures in respect of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities on adoption of IFRS 9.
However, it is not practicable at this stage to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 117 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 2 above, management has made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements apart from those involving estimations which are dealt with below.
Revenue and profit recognition of long-term project-based contracts Revenue and profit is recognised for certain long-term project-based contracts based on the stage of completion of the contract activity.
This is measured by the proportion of costs incurred to estimated whole-life contract costs except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation involves an estimation of the future cash ows of cash-generating units and also the selection of appropriate discount rates, which involves judgement, to calculate present values see note 13.
The carrying value of goodwill is 899.5m 2009: 898.4m at the balance sheet date.
Retirement benefit obligations The calculation of retirement benefit obligations is dependent on material key assumptions including discount rates, future returns on assets and future contribution rates see note 26.
The value of retirement benefit obligations at the balance sheet date is 226.2m 2009: 294.2m.
Details of the impact of changes in assumptions relating to retirement benefit obligations are disclosed in the Finance Review page 52.
Revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Rendering of services 4,103.5 3,824.0 Revenue from long-term project-based contracts 223.2 146.0 Revenue as disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement 4,326.7 3,970.0 Investment revenue note 8 3.9 2.7 Total revenue as dened in IAS 18 4,330.6 3,972.7 5.
Segmental information Information reported to the Chief Operating Decision Maker for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance focuses on the categories of customer identied using their respective markets.
Details of the different products and services provided by each operating segment are included in the Our business and Our performance sections of this report.
From 1 January 2010, the Group has reapportioned its business into five new divisions.
The Groups reportable operating segments under IFRS 8 Operating Segments are: Reportable Segments Operating Segments Civil Government UK and Europe civil government and transport: Defence, Science and Nuclear UK and Europe defence and science-based businesses: Local Government and Commercial UK and Europe IT and BPO, integrated services, education and commercial businesses: Americas US defence, intelligence and federal civil government agencies operations, and Canadian operations: and AMEAA Africa, Middle East, Asia including Hong Kong and India and Australasia.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in note 2.
118 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 5.
Segmental information continued The following is an analysis of the Groups revenue and results by operating segment in the year ended 31 December 2010.
Reportable segments Year ended 31 December 2010 Local Defence, Government Civil Science and Government and Nuclear Commercial Americas AMEAA Total m m m m m m Revenue 1,126.9 910.8 853.9 953.9 481.2 4,326.7 Result Segment result 66.4 77.3 53.1 64.0 32.0 292.8 Corporate expenses 51.5 2SHUDWLQJ SURW Investment revenue 3.9 Finance costs 31.3 3URW EHIRUH WD[ Tax 57.1 3URW IRU WKH HDU &DSLWDO H[SHQGLWXUH Goodwill - - 1.9 - 1.2 3.1 Property, plant and equipment: segments 3.7 8.4 11.3 1.4 10.4 35.2 Property, plant and equipment: corporate 0.2 35.4 Intangible assets: segments 0.2 1.3 1.8 4.9 3.5 11.7 Intangible assets: corporate 9.2 20.9 Depreciation and amortisation Depreciation: segments 7.2 2.6 15.1 4.8 9.1 38.8 Depreciation: corporate 0.6 39.4 Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition: segments 0.2 - 2.7 13.9 0.6 17.4 Amortisation other: segments 3.6 1.7 5.3 1.3 1.2 13.1 Amortisation other: corporate 13.1 43.6 Segment assets Reportable segment assets 292.2 408.0 533.5 694.5 251.0 2,179.2 Corporate assets 9.0 2,188.2 Segment liabilities Reportable segment liabilities 243.0 313.3 176.0 133.5 85.8 951.6 Corporate liabilities 102.3 1,053.9 stated on a cash basis: including acquisitions but excluding finance leases Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 119 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 5.
Segmental information continued Reportable segments Restated Year ended 31 December 2009 Defence, Local Civil Science Government Government and Nuclear and Commercial Americas AMEAA Total m m m m m m Revenue 1,026.3 921.2 809.2 872.6 340.7 3,970.0 Result Segment result 45.0 77.9 47.0 61.8 24.1 255.8 Corporate expenses 43.7 2SHUDWLQJ SURW 212.1 Investment revenue 2.7 Finance costs 37.7 3URW EHIRUH WD[ 177.1 Tax 46.9 3URW IRU WKH HDU 130.2 &DSLWDO H[SHQGLWXUH Goodwill 5.1 - 1.1 - - 6.2 Property, plant and equipment: segments 9.4 2.2 13.2 3.9 8.9 37.6 Property, plant and equipment: corporate 2.4 40.0 Intangible assets: segments 2.0 0.9 2.5 4.1 1.1 10.6 Intangible assets: corporate 6.9 17.5 'HSUHFLDWLRQ DQG DPRUWLVDWLRQ Depreciation: segments 8.3 2.7 12.7 7.1 2.8 33.6 Depreciation: corporate 0.8 34.4 Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition: segments 0.3 - 2.6 14.2 0.5 17.6 Amortisation other: segments 3.7 1.7 5.3 1.3 1.2 13.2 Amortisation other: corporate 9.7 40.5 Segment assets Reportable segment assets 284.4 447.4 538.7 661.2 197.2 2,128.9 Corporate assets 30.0 2,158.9 Segment liabilities Reportable segment liabilities 242.2 340.6 207.8 105.7 54.0 950.3 Corporate liabilities 138.6 1,088.9 stated on a cash basis: including acquisitions but excluding finance leases 120 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 5.
Segmental information continued 2010 2009 m m Segment assets comprise: Goodwill 899.5 898.4 Other intangible assets 145.0 164.4 Property, plant and equipment 135.4 129.2 Trade and other receivables non-current 156.7 181.4 Inventories 65.4 65.9 Trade and other receivables current excluding Corporation tax recoverable note 19 786.2 719.6 2,188.2 2,158.9 2010 2009 m m Segment liabilities comprise: Trade and other payables current 805.5 771.6 Trade and other payables non-current 22.2 23.1 Retirement benefit obligations 226.2 294.2 1,053.9 1,088.9 Geographic information Non-current Non-current Revenue assets Revenue assets 2010 2010 2009 2009 m m m m United Kingdom 2,586.4 707.9 2,541.9 734.9 United States 880.3 463.2 819.2 404.8 Other countries 860.0 165.5 608.9 233.7 Total 4,326.7 1,336.6 3,970.0 1,373.4 Non-current assets exclude financial instruments and deferred tax assets Revenues from external customers are attributed to individual countries on the basis of the location of the customer.
Information about major customers The Group has two major governmental customers which each represent more than 10% of Group revenues.
The customers revenues were respectively 2,418.3m 2009: 2,351.6m across all reported segments other than Americas and AMEAA and 850.5m 2009: 796.1m within the Americas segment.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 121 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 6.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 2010 2009 m m Net foreign exchange losses gains 1.8 3.4 Research and development costs 62.3 47.1 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.8 2.0 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment note 16 39.4 34.4 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition note 14 17.4 17.6 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets other note 14 26.2 22.9 Impairment of goodwill note 13 4.2 - Staff costs note 7 1,837.3 1,694.0 Allowance for doubtful debts charged to income statement note 19 2.2 1.4 Fair value adjustment on financial instruments - recycling of amounts on discontinued cash ow hedges note 25 d 0.3 0.2 - forward foreign exchange contracts: non-designated hedges note 25 a 1.4 3.0 Operating lease payments 128.6 104.5 Operating lease income - 0.1 Amounts payable to Deloitte LLP and their associates by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings in respect of audit and non-audit services are shown below.
2010 2009 m m Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.9 0.9 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: - audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.7 0.7 Total audit fees 1.6 1.6 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 - tax services 0.2 0.2 - other services 0.3 0.3 Total non-audit fees 0.6 0.6 Other services relate to consulting services provided to the Group.
122 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 7.
Staff costs The average monthly number of employees including Executive Directors was: 2010 2009 Number Number Civil Government 11,313 11,540 Defence, Science and Nuclear 8,516 9,182 Local Government and Commercial 11,477 11,400 Americas 10,192 10,286 AMEAA 17,014 15,036 Unallocated 287 266 Total 58,799 57,710 Average monthly numbers of employees for joint ventures are included on a proportionately consolidated basis in the table above.
Aggregate remuneration comprised: 2010 2009 m m Wages and salaries 1,582.9 1,467.7 Social security costs 139.1 126.7 Other pension costs note 26 106.5 92.4 1,828.5 1,686.8 Share-based payment expense note 33 8.8 7.2 Total 1,837.3 1,694.0 8.
Investment revenue 2010 2009 m m Interest receivable on other loans and deposits 3.9 2.7 3.9 2.7 9.
Finance costs 2010 2009 m m Interest payable on non recourse loans 1.4 1.6 Interest payable on obligations under finance leases 2.2 1.8 Interest payable on other loans 23.7 26.8 Movement in discount on provisions and deferred consideration 1.2 1.2 Net interest payable on retirement benefit obligations note 26 2.8 6.3 31.3 37.7 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 123 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 10.
Tax 10 a Income tax recognised in the income statement 2010 2009 m m Current income tax Current income tax expense 63.3 56.2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 8.1 9.1 Deferred tax Current year 2.5 2.0 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.6 1.8 57.1 46.9 The tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the profit in the Consolidated Income Statement as follows: 2010 2009 m m 3URW EHIRUH WD[ 213.9 177.1 Tax calculated at a rate of 28% 2009: 28% 59.9 49.6 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 3.6 3.8 Unrelieved tax losses 2.5 2.1 Effect of the use of unrecognised tax losses - 0.4 Impact of changes in statutory tax rates 0.8 - Untaxed income - 0.9 Overseas rate differences 3.2 3.4 Tax incentives 4.2 3.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 8.7 7.3 Tax charge 57.1 46.9 10 b Income tax recognised in the SOCI 2010 2009 m m Current tax Relating to cash ow hedges - 0.3 Taken to Retirement benefit obligations reserve 9.7 0.5 Taken to Share-based payment reserve 2.7 3.2 Deferred tax Relating to cash ow hedges 0.6 1.7 Taken to Retirement benefit obligations reserve 14.0 39.1 Taken to Share-based payment reserve 0.5 1.0 1.7 45.2 The income tax expense for the year is based on the UK statutory rate of corporation tax for the period of 28% 2009: 28%.
The impact of changes in statutory tax rates relates principally to the reduction of the UK corporation tax rate from 28% to 27% from 1 April 2011, which was enacted on 27 July 2010.
This change has resulted in a deferred tax charge arising from the reduction in the balance sheet carrying value of deferred tax assets to reect the anticipated rate of tax at which those assets are expected to reverse.
The UK Government has also indicated that it intends to enact future reductions in the main tax rate of 1% each year down to 24% by 1 April 2014.
We estimate that the future rate changes would further reduce the UK deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised but the actual impact will be dependent on the deferred tax position at that time.
124 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 11.
Dividends 2010 2009 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 4.40p per share on 490.5 million ordinary shares 2009: Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 3.52p per share on 481.1million ordinary shares 21.6 16.9 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 2.20p per share on 488.2 million ordinary shares 2009: Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 1.85p per share on 489.0 million ordinary shares 10.7 9.0 32.3 25.9 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 5.15p per share on 488.5 million ordinary shares 2009: 4.40p on 490.5 million ordinary shares 25.2 21.6 The proposed final dividend for 2010 is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these Financial Statements.
A dividend waiver is effective for those shares held on behalf of the Company by its Employee Share Ownership Trust note 30.
Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share EPS have been calculated in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings per Share.
EPS is shown both before and after amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition note 14 to assist in the understanding of the underlying performance of the business.
The calculation of the basic and diluted EPS is based on the following data: Number of shares 2010 2009 Millions Millions Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 491.5 486.6 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: share options 8.4 5.6 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted EPS 499.9 492.2 Earnings per share Per share Per share Earnings amount Earnings amount 2010 2010 2009 2009 m Pence m Pence Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS being net profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent 156.7 31.88 130.2 26.76 Add back: Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition, net of tax of 3.6m 2009: 4.1m 13.8 2.81 13.5 2.77 Adjusted earnings before amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition 170.5 34.69 143.7 29.53 Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 156.7 31.88 130.2 26.76 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares - 0.53 - 0.31 Diluted EPS 156.7 31.35 130.2 26.45 At 31 December 2010 options over nil 2009: 894,000 shares were excluded from the weighted average number of shares used for calculating diluted earnings per share because their exercise price was above the average share price for the year and they were, therefore, anti-dilutive.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 125 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 13.
Goodwill m At 1 January 2009 963.2 Additions 6.2 Reduction in deferred consideration payable on Infovision 16.5 Exchange differences 54.5 At 1 January 2010 898.4 Additions 3.1 Impairment 4.2 Reduction in deferred consideration payable on Infovision 12.7 Reduction in deferred consideration payable on Sandrunner 1.0 Exchange differences 15.9 At 31 December 2010 899.5 Goodwill is attributable to the excess of consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired and includes expected synergies, existing contracts, future growth prospects, staff knowledge, expertise and customer contacts.
Additions during the year include goodwill in respect of the acquisitions of RB Solutions Limited and the trade and liabilities of HyIT Knowledge Systems Private Limited note 15.
During the year, the Group exited its remaining business in the non-core South African market, a joint venture providing aviation ground handling services, following the non-renewal of its license.
Accordingly, an impairment charge of 4.2m has been recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as an administrative expense.
The recoverable amount is based on fair value less costs to sell.
The impairment expense attributable to the joint ventures goodwill is allocated to Corporate Expenses in the Groups segmental information note 5.
The goodwill acquired in business combinations is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash-generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
At the start of the financial year a group restructuring took place, including a combination of certain business units, triggering a re-assessment of the level at which cash inows are largely independent of each other.
Therefore, in accordance with IAS 36, the Groups CGUs were rationalised and this process incorporated the reallocation of some immaterial goodwill balances to the revised CGUs.
Goodwill has been allocated to CGUs in the following operating segments: Restated 2010 2009 m m Civil Government 62.1 61.2 Defence, Science and Nuclear 105.5 106.9 Local Government and Commercial 295.5 295.3 Americas 408.2 395.7 AMEAA 28.2 39.3 At 31 December 899.5 898.4 The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amount of each CGU is based on value in use calculations.
Key assumptions The value in use calculations use risk-adjusted cash ow projections based on financial plans approved by senior management covering a five-year period, and include a terminal value based on the projections for the final year of that plan, with an inationary growth rate assumption applied.
The key assumptions affecting the CGUs are discussed below.
Short-term growth rates Short-term revenue growth rates used in each CGU five-year plan are based on internal data regarding the current pipeline of opportunities and published industry forecasts for the relevant market.
Further discussion of the Groups order book and pipeline is provided in the Our business and Our performance sections.
126 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 13.
Goodwill continued Terminal growth rates The cash ows subsequent to the five-year period are based upon managements estimate of the growth rates of the sectors in which the CGUs operate.
Where possible these have been derived with reference to external sources.
The range of terminal growth rates applied to the CGUs within each operating segment are set out below: % Civil Government 2.5 Defence, Science and Nuclear 2.5 Local Government and Commercial 2.5 Americas 3.0 AMEAA 2.5 - 7.0 These rates do not exceed the average long-term growth rates forecast for the individual market sectors.
Discount rate Pre-tax discount rates, derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital have been used in discounting the projected risk-adjusted cash ows.
These rates are adjusted for risks specic to the market in which the CGU operates, including but not limited to: geographic and economic risks, contract length and customer type.
The range of pre-tax discount rates applied to the CGUs within each operating segment are disclosed below: % Civil Government 9.2 Defence, Science and Nuclear 9.1 - 9.2 Local Government and Commercial 9.1 Americas 9.9 AMEAA 9.6 - 12.9 Sensitivity analysis Sensitivity analysis has been performed for each key assumption and the Directors have not identied any reasonably possible material changes in the key assumptions that would cause the carrying value of goodwill to exceed the recoverable amount.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 127 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 14.
Other intangible assets Acquisition related Other o Software and Pension Customer Licences and development related relationships franchises expenditure intangibles Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 71.7 69.5 133.9 26.6 301.7 Additions - 2.9 22.8 - 25.7 Disposals - - 23.2 - 23.2 Exchange differences 1.7 5.9 1.0 - 8.6 At 31 December 2010 73.4 78.3 134.5 26.6 312.8 Amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2010 22.5 44.1 55.5 15.2 137.3 Charge for the year 9.9 7.5 23.7 2.5 43.6 Disposals - - 17.4 - 17.4 Exchange differences 0.3 3.9 0.1 - 4.3 At 31 December 2010 32.7 55.5 61.9 17.7 167.8 Net book value At 31 December 2010 40.7 22.8 72.6 8.9 145.0 Acquisition related Other o Software and Pension Customer Licences and development related relationships franchises expenditure intangibles Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2009 77.5 68.1 120.8 26.7 293.1 Arising on acquisition of a company 0.2 - - - 0.2 Additions - - 17.3 - 17.3 Disposals - 1.8 4.2 - 6.0 Reclassications to tangible assets - - 0.5 - 0.5 Exchange differences 6.0 3.2 0.5 0.1 2.4 At 31 December 2009 71.7 69.5 133.9 26.6 301.7 Amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2009 12.1 36.9 39.1 12.3 100.4 Charge for the year 10.9 6.7 19.9 3.0 40.5 Disposals - 1.8 4.2 - 6.0 Exchange differences 0.5 2.3 0.7 0.1 2.4 At 31 December 2009 22.5 44.1 55.5 15.2 137.3 Net book value At 31 December 2009 49.2 25.4 78.4 11.4 164.4 Customer relationships are amortised over the average length of contracts acquired.
Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition consists of amortisation in relation to Customer relationships and Licences and franchises and totals 17.4m 2009: 17.6m.
The Group is carrying 72.6m 2009: 78.4m in relation to Software and development expenditure which includes assets relating to the Groups SAP finance-related systems, of 42.7m 2009: 32.8m.
The average amortisation period of these assets has six years 2009: five years remaining.
The Group is carrying 40.7m 2009: 49.2m in relation to customer relationships of which the principal component is 34.0m 2009: 39.2m relating to SI International, Inc.
The remaining average life of these customer relationship intangible assets is approximately five years 2009: six years.
128 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 15.
Acquisitions During the year, the Group completed the following acquisitions which have been accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2008.
15 a RB Solutions Limited: On 17 February 2010, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital in RB Solutions Limited.
Net assets acquired total 0.1m purchased for consideration of 1.5m of cash and 0.5m in deferred consideration paid on 17 August 2010.
The acquisition gives rise to 1.9m of goodwill relating to future opportunities in Local Government business process outsourcing.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for corporate income tax purposes.
RB Solutions Limited is based in the UK and provides remote processing services to Local Government.
Costs of 0.3m have been expensed in relation to the acquisition and integration of RB Solutions Limited.
15 b HyIT Knowledge Systems Private Limited: On 28 August 2010, the Group acquired the trade and liabilities of HyIT Knowledge Systems Private Limited.
Net liabilities acquired were INR3,000 0.0m for a purchase consideration of INR15.0m 0.2m of cash and INR77.2m 1.0m in deferred consideration to be paid contingent on future performance of the acquired trade and liabilities.
The acquisition gives rise to 1.2m of goodwill relating to future opportunities in the local Geo-Informatics market.
HyIT Knowledge Systems Private Limited is based in Hyderabad, India providing client-site Geo-Informatics and technical support stafng services.
Due to the small size of the acquisitions, full IFRS 3 disclosures have not been presented.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 129 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 16.
Property, plant and equipment ShortMachinery, Freehold leasehold motor vehicles, land and building furniture buildings improvements and equipment Total m m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 7.4 47.1 265.2 319.7 Additions - 2.4 44.5 46.9 Disposals - 0.1 22.2 22.3 Exchange differences 0.2 1.4 10.2 11.4 At 31 December 2010 7.2 50.8 297.7 355.7 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2010 3.3 20.2 167.0 190.5 Charge for the year 0.2 5.6 33.6 39.4 Disposals - - 15.4 15.4 Exchange differences - 0.5 5.3 5.8 At 31 December 2010 3.5 26.3 190.5 220.3 Net book value At 31 December 2010 3.7 24.5 107.2 135.4 ShortMachinery, Freehold leasehold motor vehicles, land and building furniture buildings improvements and equipment Total m m m m Cost At 1 January 2009 7.6 39.0 246.4 293.0 Additions 0.1 11.0 39.6 50.7 Reclassication from intangible assets - - 0.5 0.5 Disposals - 2.6 32.7 35.3 Arising on acquisition of subsidiaries - - 1.1 1.1 Exchange differences 0.3 0.3 10.3 9.7 At 31 December 2009 7.4 47.1 265.2 319.7 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2009 3.3 17.9 156.4 177.6 Charge for the year 0.2 4.9 29.3 34.4 Disposals - 2.0 27.6 29.6 Exchange differences 0.2 0.6 8.9 8.1 At 31 December 2009 3.3 20.2 167.0 190.5 Net book value At 31 December 2009 4.1 26.9 98.2 129.2 The carrying amount of the Groups Machinery, motor vehicles, furniture and equipment includes an amount of 23.9m 2009: 22.1m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The carrying amount of the Groups Short-leasehold building improvements includes an amount of 2.3m 2009: 3.0m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
130 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 17.
Joint ventures The Groups interests in joint ventures are reported in the consolidated financial statements using the proportionate consolidation method.
The effect of the Groups joint ventures on the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Balance Sheet is as follows: Income statement 2010 2009 m m Revenue 794.1 786.0 Expenses 729.5 724.5 Operating profit 64.6 61.5 Investment revenue 2.2 1.0 Finance costs 0.5 0.5 profit before tax 66.3 62.0 Tax 17.2 14.9 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 49.1 47.1 Operating profit is after allocating 0.7m 2009: 2.8m of costs incurred by Group.
Balance sheet 2010 2009 m m Non-current assets 156.7 186.4 Current assets 173.4 145.4 Current liabilities 146.0 129.8 Non-current liabilities 141.1 162.5 Net assets 43.0 39.5 18.
Inventories 2010 2009 m m Service spares 29.8 22.6 Parts awaiting installation 7.4 18.0 Long-term project-based contract balances 28.2 25.3 65.4 65.9 As at 31 December 2010, nil 2009: nil of advances received from customers were included within Long-term project-based contract balances.
As at 31 December 2010, the Group had nil 2009: nil of contract retentions held by customers.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 131 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 19.
Trade and other receivables 2010 2009 m m Trade and other receivables: non-current Amounts owed by joint ventures 4.7 2.7 Amounts recoverable on retirement benefit obligations note 26 123.4 144.3 Other debtors 28.6 34.4 156.7 181.4 2010 2009 m m Trade and other receivables: current Trade receivables 579.4 514.7 Other amounts recoverable on contracts 64.9 65.2 Prepayments and accrued income 96.7 81.4 Other debtors 45.2 58.3 786.2 719.6 Corporation tax recoverable 4.0 1.3 790.2 720.9 As of 31 December 2010, trade receivables of 4.2m 2009: 4.6m were considered to be impaired.
Impairments to trade receivables are based on specic estimated irrecoverable amounts and provisions on outstanding balances greater than a year old unless there is rm evidence that the balance is recoverable.
The amount of the provision was 4.2m as of 31 December 2010 2009: 3.4m primarily because our customers either have a sovereign credit rating being Government organisations or are blue chip private sector companies.
The ageing of trade receivables is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Neither impaired nor past due 488.0 438.5 Not impaired but overdue by less than 30 days 56.9 40.9 Not impaired but overdue by between 30 and 60 days 14.0 11.8 Not impaired but overdue by more than 60 days 20.5 22.3 Impaired 4.2 4.6 Allowance for doubtful debts 4.2 3.4 579.4 514.7 Movements on the Group allowance for doubtful debts are as follows: 2010 2009 m m At 1 January 3.4 2.7 Charged to income statement 2.2 1.4 Utilised 1.4 0.6 Exchange differences - 0.1 At 31 December 4.2 3.4 The maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to trade receivables at the reporting date is the fair value of trade receivables.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
132 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 20.
Cash and cash equivalents Other Other Sterling currencies Total Sterling currencies Total 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 m m m m m m Cash of project companies securing credit obligations - 7.3 7.3 - 4.3 4.3 Customer advance payments - 3.6 3.6 - 6.9 6.9 Other cash and short-term deposits 108.5 159.9 268.4 200.8 107.4 308.2 Total cash and cash equivalents 108.5 170.8 279.3 200.8 118.6 319.4 Cash of project companies and customer advance payments totalling 10.9m 2009: 11.2m are encumbered cash balances.
Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
Loans Non Non recourse Other recourse Other loans loans Total loans loans Total 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 m m m m m m Loans are repayable as follows: On demand or within one year 8.0 151.5 159.5 7.2 103.5 110.7 Between one and two years 7.9 114.3 122.2 7.3 145.8 153.1 Between two and five years 7.8 224.2 232.0 14.5 351.4 365.9 After five years - 0.4 0.4 - 24.2 24.2 23.7 490.4 514.1 29.0 624.9 653.9 Less: amount due for settlement within one year shown within current liabilities 8.0 151.5 159.5 7.2 103.5 110.7 Amount due for settlement after one year 15.7 338.9 354.6 21.8 521.4 543.2 The carrying amounts and fair values of the loans are as follows: Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value 2010 2010 2009 2009 m m m m Non recourse loans 23.7 25.3 29.0 31.3 Other loans 490.4 506.8 624.9 638.8 514.1 532.1 653.9 670.1 The fair values are based on cash ows discounted using a rate based on the borrowing rate associated with the loan.
All loans are held at amortised cost.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 133 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 22.
Deferred tax Deferred income taxes are calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using local substantively enacted tax rates.
The gross movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows: 2010 2009 m m At 1 January asset liability 39.0 5.9 Income statement charge credit note 10 1.9 0.2 Items recognised in equity and in other comprehensive income note 10 14.1 41.8 Exchange differences 0.5 2.9 At 31 December asset 23.5 39.0 The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year was as follows: Temporary Share-based differences payment and Retirement Derivative Other RQ DVVHWV HPSOR HH EHQHW QDQFLDO WHPSRUDU LQWDQJLEOHV EHQHWV VFKHPHV LQVWUXPHQWV GLIIHUHQFHV 7RWDO m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 22.6 17.8 25.4 1.0 17.4 39.0 Credited charged to income statement 5.6 8.7 2.1 0.1 18.2 1.9 Items recognised in equity and in other comprehensive income - 0.5 14.0 0.6 - 14.1 Exchange differences 0.3 0.1 - - 0.7 0.5 At 31 December 2010 17.3 27.1 13.5 0.3 0.1 23.5 The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the previous year was as follows: Temporary Share-based differences payment and Retirement Derivative Other on assets employee benefit financial temporary intangibles benets schemes instruments differences Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2009 26.5 18.7 7.5 0.6 10.0 5.9 Credited charged to income statement 0.5 1.5 6.2 0.1 7.5 0.2 Items recognised in equity and in other comprehensive income - 1.0 39.1 1.7 - 41.8 Exchange differences 3.4 0.4 - - 0.1 2.9 At 31 December 2009 22.6 17.8 25.4 1.0 17.4 39.0 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same scal authority.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2010 2009 m m Deferred tax liabilities 14.6 9.0 Deferred tax assets 38.1 48.0 23.5 39.0 At the balance sheet date, the Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of 9.7m 2009: 5.6m which principally relate to unused tax losses of 31.8m 2009: 26.1m.
Losses of 1.3m 2009: 1.3m expire within five years, losses of 11.0m 2009: 2.1m expire within 6-10 years, losses of 12.6m 2009: 11.6m expire within 15-20 years and losses of 6.9m 2009: 11.1m may be carried forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was 0.1m 2009: 0.4m.
No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
134 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 23.
Obligations under finance leases Present value Present value Minimum of minimum Minimum of minimum lease lease lease lease payments payments payments payments 2010 2010 2009 2009 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 8.8 7.1 7.5 6.0 Between one and five years 20.5 18.2 17.6 15.3 After five years 1.3 1.1 3.0 2.7 30.6 26.4 28.1 24.0 Less: future finance charges 4.2 - 4.1 - Present value of lease obligations 26.4 26.4 24.0 24.0 Less: amount due for settlement within one year shown under current liabilities 8.8 7.1 7.5 6.0 Amount due for settlement after one year 17.6 19.3 16.5 18.0 Finance lease obligations are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets.
The Directors estimate that the fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
Trade and other payables 2010 2009 m m Trade and other payables: current Trade creditors 203.8 197.7 Other creditors 152.4 126.4 Accruals and deferred income 449.2 447.0 Amounts owed to joint ventures 0.1 0.5 805.5 771.6 The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 31 days 2009: 32 days.
2010 2009 m m Trade and other payables: non-current Other creditors 22.2 23.1 22.2 23.1 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 135 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 25.
Financial risk management 25 a Fair value of financial instruments i Hierarchy of fair value The Group held the following financial instruments which fall within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement at 31 December: Carrying amount Comparison Carrying amount Comparison measurement basis fair value measurement basis fair value Fair value Fair value Amortised hierarchy Amortised hierarchy Cost - Level 2 Cost - Level 2 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 m m m m m m Loans and receivables: Trade receivables note 19 579.4 579.4 514.7 514.7 Other financial assets note 25 e 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 'HULYDWLYH QDQFLDO DVVHWV Derivative financial instruments: current 3.9 1.4 Derivative financial instruments: non-current 3.5 2.5 Financial liabilities at amortised cost: Trade payables note 24 203.8 203.8 197.7 197.7 Loans note 21 514.1 532.1 653.9 670.1 'HULYDWLYH QDQFLDO OLDELOLWLHV Derivative financial instruments: current 2.4 5.5 Derivative financial instruments: non-current 5.2 1.7 The Directors estimate that the carrying amounts of trade receivables and trade payables approximate to their fair value.
The fair values of loans are based on cash ows discounted using a rate based on the borrowing rate associated with the loan.
The fair values of derivative financial instruments are calculated based on a discounted cash ow analysis using appropriate quoted interest rates for the duration of the instruments as noted below: O Currency swaps and interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of estimated future cash ows.
The present value of foreign currency balances are converted at the year end exchange rate.
O Forward foreign exchange contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates matching the maturities of the contracts.
O Commodity contracts are measured at the present value of estimated cash ows with reference to quoted forward prices for Gas Oil.
The classication of the fair value measurement falls into three levels, based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
The levels are as follows: Level 1: derived from unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: derived from other observable market data for the assets or liabilities: and Level 3: derived from valuation techniques using data that is not based on observable market data.
Based on the above, the derivative financial instruments held by the Group at 31 December 2010, are considered to fall into Level 2.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 during the year.
136 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 25.
Financial risk management continued 25 a Fair value of financial instruments continued ii Fair value of derivative financial instruments The fair valuation of derivative financial instruments results in a net liability of 0.2m 2009: 3.3m, comprising non-current assets of 3.5m 2009: 2.5m, current assets of 3.9m 2009: 1.4m, current liabilities of 2.4m 2009: 5.5m and non-current liabilities of 5.2m 2009: 1.7m.
Movement Movement in fair value in fair value of non- -DQXDU RI FDVK RZ GHVLJQDWHG 'HFHPEHU KHGJHV KHGJHV m m m m Currency swaps 0.5 1.5 - 1.0 Forward foreign exchange contracts Interest rate swaps Commodity futures contracts Movement Movement in fair value in fair value of non- 1 January of cash ow designated 31 December 2009 hedges hedges 2009 m m m m Currency swaps 4.2 4.7 - 0.5 Forward foreign exchange contracts 2.2 1.5 3.0 2.3 Interest rate swaps - 2.1 - 2.1 Commodity futures contracts 0.4 2.0 - 1.6 6.0 6.3 3.0 3.3 25 b Financial risk The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that financial and non-financial risks are monitored and managed within acceptable and known parameters.
The Board delegates authority to the executive team to manage financial risks.
The Groups treasury function acts as a service centre and operates within clearly dened guidelines and policies that are approved by the Board.
The guidelines and policies define the financial risks to be managed: specify the objectives in managing these risks: delegate responsibilities to those managing the risks: and establish a control framework to regulate treasury activities to minimise operational risk.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 137 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 25.
Financial risk management continued 25 c Liquidity risk i Credit facilities The Group maintains committed credit facilities to ensure that it has sufficient liquidity to maintain its ongoing operations.
As at 31 December, the Groups committed credit facilities and corresponding borrowings were as follows: Amount Drawn Undrawn Total facility 2010 2010 2010 2010 Currency Millions m m m Syndicated revolving credit facility GBP 400.0 76.6 323.4 400.0 Syndicated term loan facility USD 396.4 253.2 - 253.2 Bilateral revolving credit facility GBP 35.0 - 35.0 35.0 Bilateral revolving credit facility EUR 12.5 - 10.7 10.7 329.8 369.1 698.9 Amount Drawn Undrawn Total facility 2009 2009 2009 2009 Currency Millions m m m Syndicated revolving credit facility GBP 400.0 120.5 279.5 400.0 Syndicated term loan facility USD 488.0 302.2 - 302.2 Bilateral revolving credit facility GBP 35.0 35.0 - 35.0 Bilateral revolving credit facility EUR 12.5 - 10.7 10.7 457.7 290.2 747.9 The Groups bank credit facilities comprise a 400.0m syndicated revolving credit facility, a syndicated amortising term loan for US Dollar 396.4m and bilateral revolving credit facilities for 35.0m and Euro 12.5m.
The syndicated revolving facility matures in September 2013 whilst the syndicated term loan is repayable between September 2011 and September 2013.
The bilateral facilities mature in December 2011 and April 2012 respectively.
The banking facilities are unsecured and have financial and non-financial covenants and obligations typical of these arrangements.
The Group has outstanding private placements of 117.7m which amortise in equal annual instalments from 2011 to 2015.
The private placements comprise a tranche of 83.0m and a tranche of US Dollar 55.0m, which is hedged by two cross currency swaps note 25 d. 138 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 25.
Financial risk management continued 25 c Liquidity risk continued ii Maturity of financial liabilities The Groups financial liabilities will be settled on a net basis based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed below are the contractual undiscounted cash ows based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
On demand Between Between or within one and two and After RQH HDU WZR HDUV YH HDUV YH HDUV 7RWDO m m m m m Trade creditors 203.8 - - - 203.8 Obligations under finance leases 8.8 6.1 14.4 1.3 30.6 Loans 159.5 122.2 232.0 0.4 514.1 Future loan interest 16.0 11.4 11.2 0.3 38.9 Derivative financial liabilities 5.4 0.9 0.1 - 6.4 At 31 December 2010 393.5 140.6 257.7 2.0 793.8 On demand Between Between or within one and two and After one year two years five years five years Total m m m m m Trade creditors 197.7 - - - 197.7 Obligations under finance leases 7.5 7.8 9.8 3.0 28.1 Loans 110.7 153.1 365.9 24.2 653.9 Future loan interest 26.0 20.5 28.3 1.2 76.0 Derivative financial liabilities 5.7 1.2 0.4 - 7.3 At 31 December 2009 347.6 182.6 404.4 28.4 963.0 The Groups derivative financial liabilities are settled on both a net and gross basis depending upon the terms of each derivative financial instrument.
The maturity of the Groups undiscounted derivative financial liabilities is as follows: Forward foreign Currency exchange Interest VZDSV FRQWUDFWV UDWH VZDSV 7RWDO m m m m On demand or within one year - 2.4 3.0 5.4 Between one and two years - 0.4 0.5 0.9 Between two and five years - 0.1 - 0.1 At 31 December 2010 - 2.9 3.5 6.4 Forward foreign Currency exchange Interest swaps contracts rate swaps Total m m m m On demand or within one year 0.1 1.9 3.7 5.7 Between one and two years - 0.6 0.6 1.2 Between two and five years 0.1 0.6 0.3 0.4 At 31 December 2009 0.2 3.1 4.0 7.3 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 139 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 25.
Financial risk management continued 25 d Foreign exchange risk i Transactional The Groups business does not involve a significant amount of cross-border trade, and therefore, the Group is not exposed to substantial foreign currency transaction risk as sales and costs are closely matched within each overseas operation.
Any material transactional exposures that do arise are hedged by Group treasury using forward foreign exchange contracts.
ii Translational The foreign exchange exposure on the US Dollar tranche of the private placements has been fully hedged into Sterling.
The exposure on US Dollar drawings under the bank facilities is hedged against the net investment in our US business.
Central funding of individual businesses gives rise to monetary assets and liabilities.
The currency of funding is selected to ensure that any foreign exchange risk resides with Group.
This risk is then managed by the Groups treasury function, using forward foreign exchange contracts and any natural hedge positions that may exist.
iii Forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps The Group utilises currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and cash ows.
The Group is party to a variety of foreign currency forward contracts and swap contracts in the management of its exchange rate exposures.
These contracts are primarily denominated in the currencies of the Groups principal markets.
At 31 December 2010, the net total notional amount of outstanding forward foreign exchange and currency swap contracts to which the Group is committed is negative 59.6m 2009: positive 74.8m.
These arrangements are mainly designed to address significant exchange exposures for the next five years 2009: six years.
&DVK RZ KHGJHV At 31 December 2010, the Group held a number of currency swaps designated as cash ow hedges against US Dollar private placements.
Fixed interest cash ows denominated in US Dollars are exchanged for xed interest cash ows denominated in Sterling.
The prole of these currency swaps held by the Group is as follows: 5HFHLYDEOH 3D DEOH Receivable Payable 1RWLRQDO 86' %3 Notional USD GBP DPRXQW LQWHUHVW UDWH LQWHUHVW UDWH amount interest rate interest rate 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 0DWXULW 86' P USD m % % August 2015 35.0 5.7 5.7 35.0 5.7 5.7 August 2015 20.0 5.7 5.7 20.0 5.7 5.7 The Group also held a number of forward foreign exchange contracts designated as cash ow hedges with a notional amount of 29.5m 2009: 21.3m.
All currency derivatives designated as cash ow hedges are highly effective and the fair value gain of 2.2m 2009: 6.2m loss has been deferred in equity.
No balances in relation to ineffectiveness have been recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Amounts in the hedging reserve are recycled to the income statement as the hedged transactions affect the income statement.
A loss of 0.3m 2009: 0.2m has been included in the Consolidated Income Statement, and the remaining loss of 0.1m 2009: 0.4m is expected to be recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in future periods.
iv Hedges of net investments in foreign entities The Group has US Dollar denominated borrowings, some of which have been designated as a hedge of part of the net investment in its acquired subsidiaries in the US, and Euro denominated borrowings, some of which have been designated as a hedge of part of the net investment in its subsidiaries in Europe.
The carrying value of the designated borrowings was 338.5m 2009: 386.2m.
The foreign exchange loss of 12.1m 2008: 47.0m gain on translation into Sterling of the borrowings has been recognised within the Groups hedging and translation reserve.
The hedge is highly effective.
No amounts have been recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
v Currency sensitivity The Groups currency exposures that result in net currency gains and losses in the income statement and equity arise principally from US Dollar and Canadian Dollar financial instruments.
At 31 December 2010, if the US Dollar had weakened by 10% against Sterling, with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 0.1m lower 2009: 0.1m mainly as a result of movements on working capital.
Equity would have been 30.6m higher 2009: 31.2m mainly due to exchange gains on net investment hedges denominated in US Dollars.
However, this would be predominantly offset by exchange losses on the retranslation of the net assets of the US subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2010, if the US Dollar had weakened by 10% against the Canadian Dollar, with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been unaffected 2009: unaffected.
Equity would have been 0.6m higher 2009: 0.6m due to Canadian Dollar denominated non-current intercompany borrowings.
140 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 25.
Financial risk management continued 25 e Interest rate risk The Groups policy is to hedge core borrowing requirements to protect against adverse interest rate movements.
Exposure to interest rate risk arises principally on changes to US Dollar and Sterling interest rates.
i Interest rate management An analysis of financial assets and liabilities exposed to interest rate risk is set out below: Financial assets Weighted Weighted DYHUDJH [HG average xed ORDWLQJ L[HG LQWHUHVW UDWH Floating Fixed interest rate rate rate received rate rate received 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 m m % m m % Cash and cash equivalents 279.3 - 319.4 - Other financial assets 0.2 0.6 6.00 0.2 0.6 6.00 279.5 0.6 319.6 0.6 Financial liabilities Weighted Weighted DYHUDJH [HG average xed ORDWLQJ L[HG LQWHUHVW UDWH Floating Fixed interest rate rate rate paid rate rate paid 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 m m % m m % Non recourse Canadian Dollar loans - 23.7 5.27 - 29.0 5.27 Sterling loans 19.2 118.6 5.83 71.1 118.6 5.83 US Dollar loans 106.3 223.5 2.53 144.2 278.7 3.20 Other loans 22.8 - 9.1 12.2 0.1 12.00 148.3 365.8 227.5 426.4 Exposure to interest rate uctuations is mitigated through the use of interest rate derivatives.
Excluded from the above analysis is 26.4m of amounts payable under finance leases, which are subject to xed rates of interest 2009: 24.0m.
ii Interest rate swaps During 2009 the Group entered into interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate risk on US Dollar 450m debt by swapping oating for xed interest rates.
The prole of the interest rate swaps is as follows: Payable USD weighted Receivable Notional average USD value interest rate interest rate 2010 2010 2010 Maturity USD m % % March 2011 150 1.60 3 month USD LIBOR March 2012 300 1.83 3 month USD LIBOR Payable USD weighted Receivable Notional average USD value interest rate interest rate 2009 2009 2009 Maturity USD m % % March 2011 150 1.60 3 month USD LIBOR March 2012 300 1.83 3 month USD LIBOR The swaps were designated as cash ow hedges and are highly effective.
The fair value loss of 1.5m has therefore been deferred within equity 2009: 2.1m loss.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 141 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 25.
Financial risk management continued 25 e Interest rate risk continued iii Interest rate sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below shows the exposure to interest rates for both derivative and non-derivative financial liabilities at the balance sheet date and on average balances held throughout the past year.
A 100 basis point increase in interest rates with all other variables held constant would have resulted in a gain on post-tax profit for the year to 31 December 2010 of 0.7m 2009: 0.3m.
The gain on equity due to a 100 basis point movement would have been 2.1m 2009: 4.3m due to movements in the fair value of derivative financial instruments held as cash ow hedges.
25 f Price risk The Group is exposed to commodity price risk through its joint venture rail operations due to the volatility in the price of fuel.
The maturity prole of the three 2009: two commodity derivatives used by the joint ventures to reduce this risk is as follows: Notional Payable YDOXH [HG UDWH 2010 2010 0DWXULW 0LOOLRQ OLWUHV S SHU OLWUH January 2011 - September 2011 18.5 28.95 January 2011 - September 2011 10.8 39.70 January 2011 - September 2013 74.2 42.96 Notional Payable value xed rate 2009 2009 Maturity Million litres p per litre January 2010 - September 2010 9.4 33.80 January 2010 - September 2011 44.9 28.95 All commodity derivatives were designated as cash ow hedges and were highly effective.
During the year a gain of 1.0m 2009: 2.0m has therefore been deferred within equity.
i Price risk sensitivity An increase of US Dollar 0.2 per litre in the price of fuel at the balance sheet date would result in a gain of 7.1m in equity 2009: 3.5m.
The sensitivity to changes in fuel prices resulting from changes in exchange rates is included within the currency sensitivity analysis see note 25 d. 25 g Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables.
The Groups credit risk is relatively low because a high proportion of our customers have a sovereign or sovereign-like credit rating and the Group has a large number of counterparties and customers.
External credit checks are completed for all new non Government customers before signing a contract above 100,000. Credit vetting for new Government body customers is performed by an internal review of the clients ability to pay and timeliness of payment.
The review includes a consideration of the expected contract budget as well as economic and industry factors and the budget holders position within the Government body.
At quarterly intervals, a management credit worthiness review for all ongoing customers with material outstanding balances is undertaken, including an assessment to determine if there has been any deterioration in the customers payment history and a review of the total credit authorised to the customer throughout the Group.
The Groups treasury function only transacts with counterparties that have, as a minimum, a long-term public rating from two recognised credit rating agencies of Single A.
It also ensures that no exposure to any one institution at any given time exceeds a pre-approved exposure limit.
25 h Capital risk The Groups key objectives when managing capital are to ensure the Group has sufficient funds to meet current and future business requirements, to provide returns for shareholders and benets for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure.
Access to capital takes many forms and includes access to the equity market, debt capital market, and bank market.
During 2010, the Group maintained sufficient debt facilities that ensured its objectives were met.
142 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 26.
Retirement benefit schemes The Group has accounted for pensions in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benets.
The Group operates a number of dened benefit schemes and dened contribution schemes.
The pension charge for the year ended 31 December 2010, including the proportionate share of joint ventures, was 106.5m 2009: 92.4m.
26 a Dened benefit schemes The Group operates dened benefit schemes for qualifying employees of its subsidiaries in the UK and Europe.
In addition, the Group has interests in joint ventures, which operate dened benefit schemes for qualifying employees.
The assets of the funded schemes are held independently of the Groups assets in separate trustee administered funds.
The Groups major schemes are valued by independent actuaries annually using the projected unit credit actuarial cost method.
This reects service rendered by employees to the dates of valuation and incorporates actuarial assumptions primarily regarding discount rates used in determining the present value of benets, projected rates of salary growth, and long-term expected rates of return for scheme assets.
Discount rates are based on the market yields of high-quality corporate bonds in the country concerned.
Long-term expected rates of return for scheme assets are based on published brokers forecasts for each category of scheme assets.
Pension assets and liabilities in different dened benefit schemes are not offset unless the Group has a legally enforceable right to use the surplus in one scheme to settle obligations in the other scheme and intends to exercise this right.
i Balance sheet values The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are grouped together as follows: Contract specic 9irtually certain costs reimbursed The Group has an obligation to contribute to the pension scheme over the term of the contract.
At rebid any deficit or surplus would transfer to the next contractor.
Throughout the contract, it is virtually certain that the Group will be reimbursed the expenditure required to settle the dened benefit obligation.
The Groups share of the dened benefit obligation less its share of the fair value of scheme assets that it will fund over the period of the contract has been recognised as a liability.
The Group has recognised the right to reimbursement as a separate asset.
In the income statement, the expense relating to this dened benefit plan has been presented net of the amount recognised for the reimbursement, resulting in a nil charge to the income statement.
Contract specic Not certain costs reimbursed These are pre-funded dened benefit schemes.
The Group has obligations to contribute variable amounts to the pension schemes over the terms of the related contracts.
The Group has recognised as a liability the dened benefit obligation less the fair value of scheme assets that it will fund over the period of the contracts with a corresponding amount recognised as intangible assets at the start of the contracts.
Subsequent actuarial gains and losses in relation to the Groups share of the pension obligations have been recognised in the SOCI.
The intangible assets are amortised over the term of the contracts.
Non contract specic These consist of a pre-funded dened benefit scheme which does not relate to any specic contract the funding policy is to contribute such variable amounts, on the advice of the actuary, as will achieve 100% funding on a projected salary basis and an unfunded dened benefit scheme, both of which do not relate to any specic contract.
Any liabilities arising are recognised in full.
ii Triennial funding valuation Among our non contract specic schemes, the largest is the Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS.
The most recent full actuarial valuation of this scheme was undertaken as at 6 April 2009 and resulted in an actuarially assessed deficit of 141m.
Following this review, the Group agreed with the Trustees to make cash contributions of 30% of members pensionable salaries until 2019, plus lump sum payments of 20m, which was paid in December 2010 and 40m, which was paid in January 2011.
We continue to review the level of benets and contributions under the scheme in light of our business needs and changes to pension legislation.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 143 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 26.
Retirement benefit schemes continued 26 a Dened benefit schemes continued The assets and liabilities of the schemes at 31 December are: Virtually Not certain certain costs costs Non contract UHLPEXUVHG UHLPEXUVHG VSHFLF 7RWDO 2010 2010 2010 2010 m m m m Scheme assets at fair value Equities 132.2 255.2 36.6 424.0 Bonds except LDI 56.1 45.1 16.6 117.8 Liability driven investments LDI - 9.3 651.3 660.6 Gilts - 33.8 1.1 34.9 Property 17.8 26.5 9.5 53.8 Cash and other 48.7 32.4 134.9 216.0 Annuity policies - 1.0 25.1 26.1 Fair value of scheme assets 254.8 403.3 875.1 1,533.2 Present value of scheme liabilities 378.2 510.4 951.5 1,840.1 Net amount recognised 123.4 107.1 76.4 306.9 Members share of deficit - 26.7 1.5 28.2 Franchise adjustment - 53.7 - 53.7 Effect of IFRIC 14 - - 1.2 1.2 Net pension liability 123.4 26.7 76.1 226.2 Related assets Intangible assets note 14 - 8.9 - 8.9 Trade and other receivables note 19 123.4 - - 123.4 123.4 8.9 - 132.3 Virtually Not certain certain costs costs Non contract reimbursed reimbursed specic Total 2009 2009 2009 2009 m m m m Scheme assets at fair value Equities 143.6 230.0 41.4 415.0 Bonds except LDI 52.7 20.9 15.2 88.8 Liability driven investments LDI - - 493.6 493.6 Gilts - 54.4 0.9 55.3 Property 16.4 20.4 8.9 45.7 Cash and other 11.8 26.3 193.2 231.3 Annuity policies - 2.9 24.3 27.2 Fair value of scheme assets 224.5 354.9 777.5 1,356.9 Present value of scheme liabilities 368.8 476.3 899.3 1,744.4 Net amount recognised 144.3 121.4 121.8 387.5 Members share of deficit - 33.5 3.3 36.8 Franchise adjustment - 58.0 - 58.0 Effect of IFRIC 14 - - 1.5 1.5 Net pension liability 144.3 29.9 120.0 294.2 Related assets Intangible assets note 14 - 11.4 - 11.4 Trade and other receivables note 19 144.3 - - 144.3 144.3 11.4 - 155.7 Liabilities in relation to unfunded schemes included above amount to 48.7m 2009: 48.7m.
Certain of the Groups non contract specic schemes have a Liability Driven Investment LDI strategy which aims to reduce volatility risk by better matching assets to liabilities.
The main asset classes that make up the LDI investments are gilts and corporate bonds with ination and interest swap overlays.
The assumed expected rate of return is taken to be gilts 0.7% 2009: gilts 0.7%.
144 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 26.
Retirement benefit schemes continued 26 a Dened benefit schemes continued In some schemes, employee contributions vary over time to meet a specified proportion of the overall costs, including a proportion of any deficit.
The liabilities recognised in the balance sheet for these schemes are net of the proportion attributed to employees.
In addition, the amounts charged to the income statement for these schemes are net of the proportion attributed to employees.
The amounts attributed to employees are shown separately in the reconciliation of changes in the fair value of scheme assets and liabilities.
The amounts recognised in the Financial Statements for the year are analysed as follows: Virtually Not certain certain costs costs Non contract UHLPEXUVHG UHLPEXUVHG VSHFLF 7RWDO 2010 2010 2010 2010 m m m m Recognised in the income statement Current service cost employer 9.7 15.5 14.7 39.9 Past service cost - - 0.3 0.3 Reimbursed to employer 9.7 - - 9.7 5HFRJQLVHG LQ DUULYLQJ DW RSHUDWLQJ SURW Expected return on scheme assets employer 16.6 18.4 46.0 81.0 Interest on franchise adjustment - 3.4 - 3.4 Interest cost on scheme liabilities employer 21.5 20.4 50.2 92.1 Reimbursed to employer 4.9 - - 4.9 Finance income cost - 1.4 4.2 2.8 Included within the SOCI Actual return on scheme assets 24.1 35.7 81.7 141.5 Less: expected return on scheme assets 16.6 25.3 47.4 89.3 7.5 10.4 34.3 52.2 Other actuarial gains losses 13.8 3.7 19.8 2.3 Actuarial gains recognised in the SOCI 21.3 14.1 14.5 49.9 Change in IFRIC 14 - - 0.3 0.3 Change in franchise adjustment - 7.7 - 7.7 Change in members share - 8.0 1.7 9.7 Reimbursed to employer 21.3 - - 21.3 Actuarial losses on reimbursable rights 21.3 15.7 1.4 38.4 7RWDO SHQVLRQ FRVW LQFRPH UHFRJQLVHG LQ WKH 62&, Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 145 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 26.
Retirement benefit schemes continued 26 a Dened benefit schemes continued Virtually Not certain certain costs costs Non contract reimbursed reimbursed specic Total 2009 2009 2009 2009 m m m m Recognised in the income statement Current service cost employer 7.0 12.2 14.7 33.9 Past service cost - - 0.7 0.7 Reimbursed to employer 7.0 - - 7.0 5HFRJQLVHG LQ DUULYLQJ DW RSHUDWLQJ SURW - 12.2 15.4 27.6 Expected return on scheme assets employer 12.2 14.3 35.3 61.8 Interest on franchise adjustment - 1.1 - 1.1 Interest cost on scheme liabilities employer 16.1 15.6 41.4 73.1 Reimbursed to employer 3.9 - - 3.9 Finance cost - 0.2 6.1 6.3 Included within the SOCI Actual return on scheme assets 38.3 42.5 60.9 141.7 Less: expected return on scheme assets 12.3 19.9 36.3 68.5 26.0 22.6 24.6 73.2 Other actuarial gains and losses 85.2 89.4 157.6 332.2 Actuarial losses recognised in the SOCI 59.2 66.8 133.0 259.0 Change in IFRIC 14 - - 0.1 0.1 Change in franchise adjustment - 39.3 - 39.3 Change in members share - 16.7 1.8 18.5 Reimbursed to employer 59.2 - - 59.2 Actuarial gains on reimbursable rights 59.2 56.0 1.9 117.1 Total pension cost recognised in the SOCI - 10.8 131.1 141.9 146 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 26.
Retirement benefit schemes continued 26 a Dened benefit schemes continued Cumulative actuarial losses recognised since 1 January 2004 are 42.0m 2009: losses of 53.5m.
Changes in the fair value of scheme liabilities are analysed as follows: Virtually Not certain certain costs costs Non contract UHLPEXUVHG UHLPEXUVHG VSHFLF 7RWDO m m m m At 1 January 2009 267.2 356.4 719.8 1,343.4 Current service cost employer 7.0 12.2 14.7 33.9 Current service cost employee - 4.8 0.6 5.4 Past service costs - - 0.7 0.7 Scheme participants contributions 2.5 0.7 1.1 4.3 Interest cost employer 16.1 15.6 41.4 73.1 Interest cost employee - 6.0 1.1 7.1 Benets paid 9.2 8.8 33.4 51.4 Actuarial gains and losses 85.2 89.4 157.6 332.2 Exchange differences - - 4.3 4.3 At 1 January 2010 368.8 476.3 899.3 1,744.4 Current service cost employer 9.7 15.5 14.7 39.9 Current service cost employee - 6.2 0.5 6.7 Past service costs - - 0.3 0.3 Scheme participants contributions 3.1 0.6 0.9 4.6 Interest cost employer 21.5 20.4 50.2 92.1 Interest cost employee - 7.6 1.3 8.9 Benets paid 11.1 12.5 33.7 57.3 Actuarial gains and losses 13.8 3.7 19.8 2.3 Exchange differences - - 1.8 1.8 At 31 December 2010 378.2 510.4 951.5 1,840.1 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are analysed as follows: Virtually Not certain certain costs costs Non contract UHLPEXUVHG UHLPEXUVHG VSHFLF 7RWDO m m m m At 1 January 2009 177.6 297.3 719.2 1,194.1 Expected return on scheme assets employer 12.2 14.3 35.3 61.8 Expected return on scheme assets employee - 5.6 1.0 6.6 Employer contributions 15.4 17.9 29.1 62.4 Contributions by employees 2.5 6.0 1.6 10.1 Benets paid 9.2 8.8 33.4 51.4 Actuarial gains and losses 26.0 22.6 24.6 73.2 Exchange differences - - 0.1 0.1 At 1 January 2010 224.5 354.9 777.5 1,356.9 Expected return on scheme assets employer 16.6 18.4 46.0 81.0 Expected return on scheme assets employee - 6.9 1.4 8.3 Employer contributions 14.1 18.9 48.3 81.3 Contributions by employees 3.2 6.3 1.3 10.8 Benets paid 11.1 12.5 33.7 57.3 Actuarial gains and losses 7.5 10.4 34.3 52.2 Exchange differences - - - - At 31 December 2010 254.8 403.3 875.1 1,533.2 Employer contributions for non contract specic schemes in 2010 include a 20m special contribution paid in December 2010.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 147 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 26.
Retirement benefit schemes continued 26 a Dened benefit schemes continued History of experience gains and losses 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets: Amount m 52.2 73.2 263.7 1.4 45.8 Percentage of the fair value of scheme assets 3% 5% 22 % 0% 4% Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities: Amount m 4.2 58.2 0.1 5.1 13.1 Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 0% 3 % 0% 0% 1 % Fair value of scheme assets m 1,533.2 1,356.9 1,194.1 1,342.8 1,186.8 Present value of scheme liabilities m 1,840.1 1,744.4 1,343.4 1,500.9 1,465.1 deficit m 306.9 387.5 149.3 158.1 278.3 The normal contributions expected to be paid during the financial year ending 31 December 2011 are 59.6m financial year ended 31 December 2010 60.7m.
Assumptions in respect of the expected return on scheme assets are based on market expectations of returns over the life of the related obligation.
Due consideration has been given to current market conditions as at 31 December 2010 in respect to ination, interest, bond yields and equity performance when selecting the expected return on assets assumptions.
The expected yield on bond investments with xed interest rates is derived from their market value.
The yield on equity investments contains an additional premium an equity risk premium to compensate investors for the additional anticipated returns of holding this type of investment, when compared to bond yields.
Management have concluded that an appropriate equity risk premium is 4.1% 2009: 4.1%.
The overall expected return on assets is calculated as the weighted average of the expected returns for the principal asset categories held by scheme.
2010 2009 % % Main assumptions: Rate of salary increases 3.50 3.70 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.60 CPI and 3.10 RPI 3.30 Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.60 CPI and 3.10 RPI 3.30 Ination assumption 2.60 CPI and 3.10 RPI 3.30 Discount rate 5.40 5.80 Expected rates of return on scheme assets: Equities 8.30 8.60 Bonds except LDI 5.40 5.80 LDI 4.90 5.20 Gilts 4.20 4.50 Property 5.45 5.75 Cash and other 0.50 0.50 Annuity policies 5.40 5.80 2010 2009 Years Years Post-retirement mortality: Current pensioners at 65 male 20.8 20.3 Current pensioners at 65 female 23.3 23.2 Future pensioners at 65 male 22.4 21.6 Future pensioners at 65 female 24.5 24.4 148 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 26.
Retirement benefit schemes continued 26 a Dened benefit schemes continued 7KH UHSODFHPHQW RI WKH UHWDLO SULFHV LQGH[ ZLWK WKH FRQVXPHU SULFHV LQGH[ IRU UHWLUHPHQW EHQHWV The UK Government announced in its June 2010 budget that when they publish the statutory increase gure in the future they will use the CPI measure of ination rather than RPI.
This was confirmed on 8 December 2010.
Certain of the Groups pension schemes reect the lower liability where benets are explicitly based on statutory increases in the Rules in 31 December 2010 pension liability gures.
If this change had not occurred, the net liability of the pension schemes on the Group balance sheet would have been 59.2m greater.
There is no impact on the operating profit of the current year due to applying the change.
26 b Dened contribution schemes The Group paid employer contributions of 61.9m 2009: 49.4m into UK and other dened contribution schemes, foreign state pension schemes and multi-employer schemes, including those of joint ventures.
Pre-funded dened benefit schemes treated as dened contribution Serco accounts for certain pre-funded dened benefit schemes relating to contracts as dened contribution schemes because the contributions are xed until the end of the current concession and at rebid any surplus or deficit would transfer to the next contractor.
Cash contributions are recognised as pension costs and no asset or liability is shown on the balance sheet.
Provisions Employee related Property Contract Other Total m m m m m At 1 January 2009 5.9 9.8 11.2 19.0 45.9 Charged to income statement 2.4 - 0.9 1.9 5.2 Released to income statement - - 0.5 - 0.5 Utilised during the year 0.6 1.2 0.7 2.8 5.3 Unwinding of discount - 0.4 0.3 - 0.7 Exchange differences - 1.0 0.8 1.9 3.7 At 1 January 2010 7.7 8.0 10.4 16.2 42.3 Charged to income statement 3.5 0.1 0.2 2.3 6.1 Released to income statement - 0.9 0.9 2.7 4.5 Utilised during the year 0.6 1.2 2.2 2.7 6.7 Unwinding of discount - 0.3 0.3 - 0.6 Exchange differences 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.9 1.8 At 31 December 2010 11.0 6.6 8.0 14.0 39.6 Employee related provisions relate to long-term service awards and terminal gratuities liabilities which have been accrued and are based on contractual entitlement together with an estimate of the probabilities that employees will stay until retirement and receive all relevant amounts.
Property provisions relate to leased properties which are either under utilised or vacant and where the unavoidable costs associated with the lease exceed the economic benets expected to be required.
Management has calculated the provision based on the discounted cash outows required to settle the lease obligations.
Contract provisions primarily relate to SI International, Inc. where, as required under IAS 37, a provision has been taken for a loss making onerous contract.
Management has used the present value of the estimated future cash outows required to settle the contract obligations in determining the provision.
Other provisions are held for legal and other costs that the Group expects to incur over an extended period.
These costs are based on past experience of similar items and other known factors and represent managements best estimate of the likely outcome.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 149 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 28.
Share capital Number Number 2010 2010 2009 2009 m Millions m Millions Issued and fully paid: 490,912,075 2009: 486,764,440 ordinary shares of 2p each at 1 January 9.8 490.9 9.7 486.8 Issued on the exercise of share options 0.1 2.3 0.1 4.1 493,220,805 2009: 490,912,075 ordinary shares of 2p each at 31 December 9.9 493.2 9.8 490.9 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to xed income.
During the year 2,308,730 2009: 4,147,635 ordinary shares of 2p each were allotted to the holders of share-based awards or their personal representatives using newly listed shares.
Reserves 30 a Retirement benefit obligations reserve The retirement benefit obligations reserve represents the actuarial gains and losses recognised in respect of annual actuarial valuations for dened benefit retirement schemes, the fair value adjustments on reimbursable rights and the related movements in deferred tax balances.
30 b Share-based payment reserve The share-based payment reserve represents credits relating to equity-settled share-based payment transactions granted after 7 November 2002, but not fully vested as of 1 January 2005, and any gain or loss on the exercise of share options satisfied by own shares.
30 c Own shares reserve The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Serco Group plc purchased in the market and held by the Serco Group plc Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOP to satisfy options under the Groups share options schemes.
The market value of shares held by the ESOP as at 31 December 2010 was 26.2m 2009: 18.2m.
30 d Hedging and translation reserve The hedging and translation reserve represents foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the Groups overseas operations and movements relating to cash ow hedges.
150 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 31.
Notes to the consolidated cash ow statement 5HFRQFLOLDWLRQ RI RSHUDWLQJ SURW WR QHW FDVK LQRZ IURP RSHUDWLQJ DFWLYLWLHV 2010 2009 P m 2SHUDWLQJ SURW IRU WKH HDU 212.1 Adjustments for: Share-based payment expense 7.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 34.4 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 40.5 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.0 profit on disposal of intangible assets - Impairment of goodwill - Movement in provisions 0.6 2SHUDWLQJ FDVK LQRZ EHIRUH PRYHPHQWV LQ ZRUNLQJ FDSLWDO 295.6 Decrease increase in inventories 15.1 Increase in receivables 31.1 Increase in payables 24.8 Special contribution to dened benefit pension scheme note 26 - &DVK JHQHUDWHG E RSHUDWLRQV 274.2 Tax paid 39.1 1HW FDVK LQRZ IURP RSHUDWLQJ DFWLYLWLHV 235.1 Additions to xtures and equipment during the year amounting to 10.0m 2009: 11.9m were nanced by new finance leases.
$QDO VLV RI QHW GHEW At AtDQXDU [FKDQJH 1RQ FDVK 'HFHPEHU &DVK RZ $FTXLVLWLRQV GLIIHUHQFHV PRYHPHQWV P P P P P P Cash and cash equivalents Non recourse loans Other loans Obligations under finance leases At At 1 January Exchange Non cash 31 December 2009 Cash ow Acquisitions differences movements 2009 m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 250.8 73.0 0.9 5.3 - 319.4 Non recourse loans 34.1 6.5 - 1.4 - 29.0 Other loans 713.6 33.0 2.5 58.2 - 624.9 Obligations under finance leases 17.2 5.7 - 0.6 11.9 24.0 514.1 118.2 1.6 50.9 11.9 358.5 Acquisitions represent the net cash debt acquired on acquisition.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 151 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 32.
Capital and other commitments 2010 2009 m m Capital expenditure contracted but not provided: - Property, plant and equipment 1.7 5.5 Included within the balances above is joint venture capital expenditure contracted but not provided in relation to property, plant and equipment of nil 2009: 1.2m.
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2010 2009 m m Within one year 112.0 106.7 Between one and five years 240.6 207.3 After five years 129.3 123.5 481.9 437.5 Principal lease commitments are within the Civil Government segment, with future minimum lease payments totalling 231.1m 2009: 181.0m.
These leases relate primarily to administrative and operational buildings, track and rolling stock within the train operating companies.
The length of the leases is concurrent with the period of the franchises and the terms of the leases are xed during this period.
152 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 33.
Share-based payment expense The Group recognised the following expenses related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions: 2010 2009 m m Executive Option Plan 0.2 0.5 Long Term Incentive Scheme and Plan 2.5 4.5 Sharesave 2008 1.0 1.8 Transformational Share Scheme 0.2 0.1 Performance Share Plan 4.4 0.2 Deferred Bonus Plan 0.5 0.1 8.8 7.2 Executive Option Plan EOP Options granted under the EOP may be exercised after the third anniversary of grant, dependent upon the achievement of a financial performance target over three years.
The options are granted at market value and awards made to eligible employees are based on between 50% and 100% of salary as at 31 December prior to grant.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire.
Furthermore, options may be forfeited if the eligible employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
Details of the movement in all EOP options are as follows: Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise options price options price 2010 2010 2009 2009 Thousands Thousands Outstanding at 1 January 6,857 2.72 10,948 2.65 Granted during the year - - 88 3.88 Exercised during the year 2,620 2.79 3,634 2.50 Lapsed during the year 280 3.47 545 2.98 Outstanding at 31 December 3,957 2.63 6,857 2.72 Of these options 3,534,982 2009: 5,992,295 were exercisable at the end of the year, with a weighted average exercise price of 2.42 2009: 2.48.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2010 had a weighted average contractual life of 3.2 years 2009: 3.7 years.
The exercise prices for options outstanding at 31 December 2010 ranged from 1.39 to 4.55 2009: 1.39 to 4.90.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise approximates to the weighted average share price during the year, which was 5.81 2009: 4.41.
The fair value of options granted under the EOP is measured by use of the Binomial Lattice model.
The Binomial Lattice model is considered to be most appropriate for valuing options granted under this scheme as it allows exercise over a longer period of time between the vesting date and the expiry date.
There were no new options granted under Executive Option Plans during the year.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 153 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 33.
Share-based payment expense continued Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS and Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Awards made to eligible employees under the above schemes are structured as options with a zero exercise price and may be exercised after the third anniversary of grant.
The extent to which an award vests and therefore becomes exercisable is measured by reference to the growth in the Groups earnings per share EPS or total shareholder return TSR over the performance period of three financial years.
Details of the movement in all LTIS and LTIP options are as follows: Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise options price options price 2010 2010 2009 2009 Thousands Thousands Outstanding at 1 January 5,623 Nil 8,214 Nil Granted during the year - Nil 351 Nil Exercised during the year 1,786 Nil 2,383 Nil Lapsed during the year 146 Nil 559 Nil Outstanding at 31 December 3,691 Nil 5,623 Nil Of these options, 1,544,054 2009: 896,487 were exercisable at the end of the year.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2010 had a weighted average contractual life of 6.8 years 2009: 7.6 years.
There were no grants of LTIP options during the year.
During the prior year, two grants of LTIP options were made: one grant with TSR performance conditions, the other with EPS growth performance conditions.
The Monte Carlo Simulation model is considered to be the most appropriate for valuing options granted under schemes where there are changes in performance conditions by which the options are measured, such as for the TSR-based awards.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous three years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
For the LTIP options with EPS growth performance conditions, the fair value is considered to be their face value less the present value of any dividend payments not paid over the vesting period.
154 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 33.
Share-based payment expense continued Transformational Share Scheme Awards made to eligible employees under the Transformational Share Scheme are structured as options with a nil exercise price and are exercisable after the third anniversary of the grant.
The employee must exercise the options no later than 30 days after the vesting date.
Furthermore, if the eligible employee leaves the Group before the options vest, the options may be forfeited.
Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise options price options price 2010 2010 2009 2009 Thousands Thousands Outstanding at 1 January 86 Nil 39 Nil Granted during the year 33 Nil 53 Nil Exercised during the year - Nil - Nil Lapsed during the year - Nil 6 Nil Outstanding at 31 December 119 Nil 86 Nil None of these options were exercisable at the end of the year 2009: none.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2010 had a weighted average contractual life of 0.8 years 2009: 1.3 years.
The fair value of options granted under the Transformational Share Scheme is considered to be equal to their face value as at the grant date less the present value of any dividend payments over the vesting period.
This model is considered to be most appropriate for valuing options granted under this scheme as the options have a nil exercise price and are not subject to any performance conditions.
The assumptions for determining the face value less any dividends are: 2010 2009 Weighted average share price 590p 366p Weighted average exercise price Nil Nil Expected volatility N A N A Expected life 3 years 2 years Risk free rate N A N A Expected dividends 1.0% 1.4% Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 155 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 33.
Share-based payment expense continued Performance Share Plan PSP Under the PSP, eligible employees have been granted options with an exercise price of two pence.
Awards vest after the performance period of three years and are subject to the achievement of two performance measures.
The primary performance measure is TSR and the second performance measure is based on EPS growth.
Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise options price options price 2010 2010 2009 2009 Thousands Thousands Outstanding at 1 January 479 Nil - Nil Granted during the year 3,523 0.02 479 Nil Exercised during the year - Nil - Nil Lapsed during the year 58 Nil - Nil Outstanding at 31 December 3,944 0.02 479 Nil None of these options were exercisable at the end of the year 2009: none.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2010 had a weighted average contractual life of 9.2 years 2009: 9.5 years.
In the year, four grants were made with 70% of the options granted subject to TSR performance conditions and 30% subject to EPS growth performance conditions.
The options subject to TSR performance conditions were valued using the Monte Carlo Simulation model.
The options subject to EPS growth performance conditions were deemed to have fair values equal to their face value less the present value of any dividend payments not received over the vesting period.
The inputs into the Monte Carlo Simulation model for options granted during the year with TSR performance conditions are: 2010 2009 Weighted average share price 615p 406p Weighted average exercise price 2p Nil Expected volatility 28.9% 28.8% Expected life 3 years 3 years Risk free rate 1.9% 2.2% Expected dividends - 1.2% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous three years.
The assumptions for options granted during the year with EPS growth performance conditions are: 2010 2009 Weighted average share price 615p 406p Weighted average exercise price 2p Nil Expected volatility N A N A Expected life 3 years 3 years Risk free rate N A N A Expected dividends - 1.2% 156 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 33.
Share-based payment expense continued Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Under the DBP, eligible employees are entitled to use up to 50% of their earned annual bonus to purchase shares in the Group at market price.
Provided they remain in employment for this period, the shares are retained for that period and the two performance measures which are the same as the PSP scheme, being TSR and EPS growth have been met, the Group will make a matching share award.
For shares purchased by employees in 2010 the match was on a basis of two times the gross bonus deferred.
Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise options price options price 2010 2010 2009 2009 Thousands Thousands Outstanding at 1 January 207 Nil 28 Nil Granted during the year 219 Nil 207 Nil Exercised during the year - Nil 28 Nil Lapsed during the year - Nil - Nil Outstanding at 31 December 426 Nil 207 Nil None of these options were exercisable at the end of the year 2009: none.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2010 had a weighted average contractual life of 1.9 years 2009: 2.5 years.
In the year, one grant was made with 50% of the deferred bonus subject to TSR performance conditions and 50% subject to EPS growth performance conditions.
The portion subject to TSR performance conditions was valued using the Monte Carlo Simulation model.
The portion subject to EPS growth performance conditions was deemed to have a fair value equal to their face value less the present value of any dividend payments not received over the vesting period.
The inputs into the Monte Carlo Simulation model for options granted during the year with TSR performance conditions are: 2010 2009 Weighted average share price 602p 404p Weighted average exercise price Nil Nil Expected volatility 28.9% 28.9% Expected life 3 years 3 years Risk free rate 1.8% 1.8% to 2.4% Expected dividends - 1.2% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous three years.
The assumptions for options granted during the year with EPS growth performance conditions are: 2010 2009 Weighted average share price 602p 404p Weighted average exercise price Nil Nil Expected volatility N A N A Expected life 3 years 3 years Risk free rate N A N A Expected dividends - 1.2% Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 157 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 33.
Share-based payment expense continued Sharesave 2008 The Sharesave 2008 scheme provides for a purchase price equal to the daily average market price on the date of grant less 10%.
The options can be exercised for a period of six months following their vesting.
Details of the movement in Sharesave 2008 options are as follows: Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise options price options price 2010 2010 2009 2009 Thousands Thousands Outstanding at 1 January 6,106 4.0 6,760 4.0 Granted during the year - Nil - Nil Exercised during the year 248 4.0 5 4.0 Lapsed during the year 379 4.0 649 4.0 Outstanding at 31 December 5,479 4.0 6,106 4.0 Of these options, 16,278 2009: none were exercisable at the end of the year.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2010 had a weighted average contractual life of 1.2 years 2009: 2.1 years.
Given that options granted under the Sharesave plan can be exercised at any time after vesting, management consider the Binomial Lattice model to be appropriate to value the options granted under this scheme.
The Binomial Lattice model allows exercise over a window in time, from vesting date to expiry date, and assumes option holders make economically rational exercise decisions.
158 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG 34.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its joint venture undertakings are disclosed below, with the relevant proportion being eliminated on consolidation.
Trading transactions During the year, Group companies entered into the following material transactions with joint ventures: 2010 2009 m m Royalties and management fees receivable 2.0 1.6 Dividends receivable 51.5 46.3 53.5 47.9 The following receivable balances relating to joint ventures were included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet: 2010 2009 m m Current: Loans 0.1 0.6 2010 2009 m m Non-current: Loans 3.5 2.2 Joint venture receivable and loan amounts outstanding have arisen from transactions undertaken during the general course of trading, are unsecured, and will be settled in cash.
Interest arising on loans is based on LIBOR, or its equivalent, with an appropriate margin.
No guarantee has been given or received.
No provisions are required for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by the joint ventures.
Remuneration of key management personnel The Directors of Serco Group plc had no material transactions with the Group during the year other than service contracts and Directors liability insurance.
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: 2010 2009 m m Short-term employee benets 7.5 3.2 Post-employment benets 0.8 0.4 Share-based payment expense 2.8 1.5 11.1 5.1 The key management personnel comprise the Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee 2010: 19 individuals, 2009: 9 individuals.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 159 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 35.
List of principal undertakings The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under Section 410 2 of the Companies Act 2006 by providing information only in relation to undertakings whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affected the financial statements.
A complete list of subsidiary and associated undertakings will be attached to the next Serco Group plc annual return to Companies House.
The percentage of equity capital held directly or indirectly by Serco Group plc is shown.
The voting rights are the same as the percentage holding.
The companies are incorporated and principally operate in the countries stated below.
Principal subsidiaries 2010 2009 United Kingdom Serco Limited 100% 100% NPL Management Limited 100% 100% Rest of Europe Germany Serco GmbH 100% 100% AMEAA Australia Serco Australia Pty Limited 100% 100% Great Southern Rail Limited 100% 100% North America USA Serco Services Inc. 100% 100% Joint venture undertakings 2010 2009 United Kingdom AWE Management Limited 33% 33% Merseyrail Services Holding Company Limited 50% 50% Northern Rail Holdings Limited 50% 50% AMEAA Australia Serco Sodexo Defence Services Pty Limited 50% 50% All joint ventures are accounted for using the proportionate consolidation method.
All the subsidiaries of the Group have been consolidated.
All the principal subsidiaries of Serco Group plc and its joint venture undertakings are engaged in the provision of support services.
Contingent liabilities The Company has guaranteed overdrafts, finance leases, and bonding facilities of its joint ventures up to a maximum value of 8.2m 2009: 7.0m.
The actual commitment outstanding at 31 December 2010 was 5.6m 2009: 4.3m.
In addition to this, the Company and its subsidiaries have provided performance guarantees, and indemnities relating to performance bonds and letters of credit issued by its banks on its behalf, in the ordinary course of business.
These are not expected to result in any material financial loss.
The Group is aware of claims and potential claims which involve or may involve legal proceedings against the Group.
The Directors are of the opinion, having regard to legal advice received and the Groups insurance arrangements, that it is unlikely that these matters will, in aggregate, have a material effect on the Groups financial position.
160 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG
