Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 123 Information for shareholders Electronic communications and our website a history of dividend payment dates and amounts: and access to current and historical shareholder documents such At the 2007 AGM a resolution, amending the Articles of as the Annual Report and Accounts.
Association, was passed allowing the company to communicate with shareholders either via the Severn Trent Plc Severn Trent shareholder helpline website or by post.
The company last wrote to shareholders in April 2008 asking that they choose to either: The companys registrar is Equiniti Limited.
Equinitis main responsibilities include maintaining the shareholder register and provide an email address to receive notifications when making dividend payments.
shareholder documentation is made available on the website: or If you have any queries on the following matters you can continue to receive shareholder documentation in hard copy contact Equiniti via one of the methods below: by returning the personalised reply card.
transfer of shares: If the completed card was not returned then, in accordance change of name or address: with the Companies Act 2006, shareholders were deemed to lost share certificate: have agreed to receive shareholder documentation via the lost or out of date dividend cheques and other website.
These shareholders, and those who have positively dividend queries: elected for website communication, will receive, immediately death of the registered holder of shares: or prior to the publication date, notification whenever shareholder any other query relating to your Severn Trent shareholding.
documents are available to view on the website at www.
com Registrar contact details: Shareholders may receive electronic communications either: Telephone: 0871 384 2967 via email this option is available though Shareview.
Overseas enquiries: 44 121 415 7044 Shareholders will receive an email notification when a new Text phone: 0871 384 2255 document is made available: or By post: Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, via our website shareholders will receive a notification by West Sussex, BN99 6DA post when a new document is made available.
com Calls to these numbers are charged at 8 pence per minute The electronic arrangements enable shareholders to access from a BT landline.
Other telephony providers costs may vary.
information immediately as it becomes available.
By using electronic communications the company is also able to both Dividend payments directly into bank accounts reduce its impact on the environment from reducing the use of Dividends can be paid automatically into your bank or building paper and the energy required for publication and distribution, society account.
This service has a number of benefits: and benefit from savings associated with reduced printing and no risk of the dividend cheque being lost in the post: mailing costs.
the dividend payment is cleared more quickly as the cash is Shareholders who register to receive shareholder paid directly into the account on the payment date without the documentation from Severn Trent Plc electronically can: need to pay in the cheque and wait for it to clear: and since the 2009 10 financial year, a single consolidated tax view the Annual Report and Accounts on the day it voucher is issued annually in February in time for your self is published: assessment tax return.
receive an email alert when shareholder documents are available: To take advantage of this service or for further details contact cast their AGM vote electronically: and Equiniti or visit www.
co. uk manage their shareholding quickly and securely online, through Shareview.
Dividend reinvestment plan A dividend reinvestment plan was introduced in July 2009.
Shareholders who receive such a notification are entitled to request a hard copy of the document and may also change the The plan gives shareholders the option of using their dividend way they receive communications, at any time, by contacting payments to buy more Severn Trent Plc shares instead of Equiniti.
co. uk for more information and to receiving cash.
If you would like to participate in the plan, register for electronic shareholder communications.
please request a dividend reinvestment plan mandate from Equiniti Financial Services Limited.
We will periodically consult with shareholders to check how they wish to receive information from us and a shareholder is Telephone: 0871 384 2268 taken to have agreed to website communications if a response Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Telephone number from outside the UK: 44 121 415 7058 Notwithstanding any election, the company may, at its sole and absolute discretion, send any notification or information to Overseas dividend payments shareholders in hard copy form.
Shareholders in over 30 countries have the opportunity to Our website also provides company news and information, receive Severn Trent dividends in their local currency.
For a together with links to our operational businesses websites.
small administration fee, shareholders can have their dividends The Investor Centre on the website contains up to date automatically converted from sterling and paid into their bank information for shareholders including: account, normally within five working days of the dividend payment date.
Please call 44 121 415 7044 for further details.
comprehensive share price information: financial results: Other information 124 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Information for shareholders continued Amalgamating different share accounts If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Shareholders with more than one account, arising from ensure you get the full name of the person and organisation: inconsistencies in name or address details, may avoid receipt check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before of duplicate mailings by asking the registrar to amalgamate getting involved by visiting www.
report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0300 500 5000 or visiting www.
uk: and Lost investors if the calls persist, hang up.
During 2009 10 we have appointed ProSearch to look for Please be aware that if you deal with an unauthorised firm, you investors who have failed to keep their details up to date.
will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial We have unclaimed funds waiting to be claimed.
The FSA can be contacted are reminded that if they move house they need to contact by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing Equiniti and advise them of their new address.
shtml Buying and selling shares in the UK Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited If you wish to buy or sell certificated Severn Trent shares, you advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free will need to use a stockbroker or high street bank which trades company reports.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the on the London Stock Exchange.
There are also many company endorses will be included in company mailings or on telephone and online services available to you.
For more detailed information from the FSA go to selling, you will need to present your share certificate at the moneymadeclear.
Details of low cost dealing services may be obtained from www.
Shareholder fraud tips on protecting your shareholding To reduce the risk of fraud happening to you please consider Share price information the following: Shareholders can find share price information on our website ensure all your share certificates and dividend tax vouchers and in most national newspapers.
Ceefax, where available, are kept in a safe place, or consider holding your shares also display share prices that are updated regularly throughout electronically in CREST via a nominee: the trading day.
For a real-time buying or selling price, you keep all correspondence from the registrar in a safe place.
Destroy all correspondence showing your personal details e. g. shareholder reference number by shredding: Gifting your shares if you change your address inform the registrar.
If you receive To transfer your shares to another member of your family as a letter from the registrar regarding a change of address and a gift, please request a gift transfer form from Equiniti.
The have not recently moved house, please contact them completed transfer form together with the relevant share immediately.
You may be a victim of identity theft: and certificate s should be returned to Equiniti to record the know when dividends are paid.
Consider having your change in ownership.
dividend paid directly into your bank or building society account, reducing the risk of cheques being intercepted or If you have a small number of shares and would like to donate lost in the post.
If you change your bank or building society them to charity, please ask Equiniti for a ShareGift charity account, inform the registrar of the details of your new donation scheme transfer form.
ShareGift registered charity account immediately.
Respond to any letters the registrar No.
1052686 is an independent charity which provides a free sends you about this.
service for shareholders wishing to dispose charitably of small numbers of shares, which would cost more to sell than they are If you have any reason to believe that you may have been the worth.
Further information is also available on the ShareGift target of a fraud, or attempted fraud, please contact the website at www.
org or by telephoning 0207 337 0501. registrar immediately.
Shareholder security Unsolicited mail Many companies have become aware that their shareholders The company is legally obliged to make its share register have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence available to the general public.
Consequently some concerning investment matters.
These are typically from shareholders may receive unsolicited mail.
If you wish to limit overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering the amount of unsolicited mail you receive please contact: to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk The Mailing Preference Service MPS, shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are Freepost 29 LON20771, London W1E 0ZT commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and the number of this Alternatively, register online at www.
uk or call type of fraud has increased dramatically in recent years.
A the MPS Registration line on 0845 703 4599.
2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that the average amount lost by investors is around Share capital history 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped Information on the companys share capital history, including in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing the share capital reorganisation in August 1997 and the for several years.
demerger of Biffa Plc, return of capital by payment of a special In addition, in the current economic climate, boiler rooms are dividend and share consolidation in October 2006, is available now targeting victims who have redundancy money or those from the Investor Centre pages on our website.
who are not experienced investors, and are asking for smaller sums of money to be invested.
com Contents Introduction Overview 1 2010 Severn Trent group highlights 2 Group at a glance Severn Trent is a FTSE 100 4 Chairmans statement 5 Chief Executives review company.
Our core business 6 Severn Trent Water Our industry is water.
We provide and treat water and waste water in the UK Business review 9 Severn Trent Water Our strategy and internationally through our 10 Delivering against our KPIs two complementary businesses 12 Performance 19 Severn Trent Services Overview Severn Trent Water and 20 Performance 23 Financial review Severn Trent Services.
Find out more at our corporate website Governance www.
com 28 Directors report 31 Directors responsibility statement 32 Board of directors Severn Trent Water website 34 Executive Committee www.
co. uk 35 Chairmans letter 41 Nominations Committee Severn Trent Services website 42 Audit Committee 44 Corporate Responsibility Committee www.
com 45 Directors remuneration report 58 Risk and assurance Group financial statements 61 Independent auditors report 62 Consolidated income statement 63 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 64 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 65 Consolidated balance sheet 66 Consolidated cash flow statement Cautionary statement 67 Notes to the group financial statements This document contains certain forward looking statements with respect to Severn Trents financial condition, results of operations and business and certain of Severn Trents plans and objectives with respect to these items.
Company financial statements Forward looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identified by their use of a date in the 112 Independent auditors report future or such words as anticipates, aims, due, will, could, may, should, expects, believes, intends, plans, targets, goal or estimates.
By their very nature forward looking statements 113 Company balance sheet are inherently unpredictable, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to 113 Company statement of total recognised gains and losses events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
114 Notes to the company financial statements There are a number of factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the economies and markets in which the group Other information operates: changes in the regulatory and competition frameworks in which the group operates: the impact of legal or other proceedings against or which affect the group: and changes in Designed and produced by salterbaxter 122 Five year summary interest and exchange rates.
123 Information for shareholders All written or verbal forward looking statements, made in this document or made subsequently, which are attributable to Severn Trent or any other member of the group or persons acting on their behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above.
Severn Trent does not intend to update these forward looking statements.
Nothing in this document should be regarded as a profits forecast.
SGS-COC-0620 This document is not an offer to sell, exchange or transfer any securities of Severn Trent Plc or any of its subsidiaries and is not soliciting an offer to purchase, exchange or transfer such securities in any jurisdiction.
Securities may not be offered, sold or transferred in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the This report was printed by Pureprint Group using their pureprint US Securities Act of 1933 as amended.
and alcofree environmental print technology.
All the electricity used in the production of this report was generated from renewable sources Severn Trent Plc and vegetable based inks were used throughout.
Pureprint Group Severn Trent Plc is a public limited company listed on the is a CarbonNeutral company and registered to the Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and EMAS, the Eco Management London Stock Exchange and registered in England and Wales and Audit Scheme.
It is printed on Cocoon 100 Uncoated, a recycled with company number 2366619.
This is the Annual Report paper containing 100% post consumer waste which is manufactured and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2010. to ISO 14001 standard.
More information on Severn Trent Plc can be found on our website at www.
com Other information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Building a sustainable business Severn Trent Plc Registered office: 2297 Coventry Road Birmingham B26 3PU Tel: 0121 722 4000 www.
