Three Growth Areas Focused on becoming the leader in sustainable waste management, we have identified three growth areas 3.1 RECyCLING Beyond waste minimisation, reuse and recycling are the next preferred steps in the waste hierarchy.
Governments have increased tax on landfill to make the recycling of waste an economically viable alternative.
Typically this involves large sorting centres or MRFs material recycling facilities to separate mixed waste into its different parts which can then be sent for further more specialist processing.
These recovered materials include paper, plastics, cardboard and glass from commercial waste and wood, rubble, metal and sand from construction waste.
Shanks operates a network of 65 sorting centres across the Group and also has specialist centres for turning the residue left after recycling into a fuel for industry known as SRF solid recovered fuel.
Our strategy is to invest in the development of further MRF facilities where Shanks has a strong market presence.
This will allow us to divert the waste we collect into our new sorting centres as well as attract third party waste by offering a gate fee below the local disposal alternatives.
3.2 ORGANIC PROCESSING The separation at source of organic waste from general waste is growing rapidly because it has the dual benefit of removing the most biodegradable methane producing waste from landfill and also because through specialist processing it can be turned into valuable products.
Typically 50% of general waste is organic in its nature.
Through specialist processing the carbon in these products can be returned to the soil as compost or fertiliser and biogas produced from the natural biological activity can be fully captured and turned into a green energy source.
Organic processing is one of the fastest growing segments within the waste sector.
Shanks has its own specialist business called Orgaworld which is an experienced and innovative company that uses both composting and anaerobic digestion technology to process organic waste into these end products.
Our strategy is to share this expertise across the Group and use it to develop organics businesses in our key markets.
We have also seen the opportunity to use the competitive advantage that Orgaworld has to develop specialist business in new markets such as Canada.
The Group is investing in a number of new facilities in the UK, Canada and the Netherlands and expects to make attractive returns on these investments as they are commissioned.
We believe that the ability of anaerobic digestion plants to be relatively quickly built compared to other forms of renewable energy such as wind, nuclear and solar will increase their attractiveness to governments and private companies looking to meet their carbon reduction and renewable energy commitments.
3.3 MUNICIPAL PFI CONTRACTS The UK Government is bound by the EU Landfill Directive which requires it to reduce substantially the amount of municipal waste it sends to landfill.
It is required to meet specific reduction milestones in 2010, 2013 and 2020.
To meet these significant reductions which peak at a 65% reduction from 1995 levels by 2020, the Government needs to both increase recycling and build alternative infrastructure to take waste diverted from landfill.
This requires an estimated investment of around 10bn which is already underway.
Central Government is providing PFI credits to local authorities to allow them to procure turnkey solutions from the private sector.
These entail competitive procurement processes to build new infrastructure and operate it for around 25 years.
Shanks is active in this market and already operates four contracts involving annual throughput of around 800,000 tonnes.
Our goal is to secure further contracts to grow this to around 1.5m tonnes which would represent annual revenue of around 140m.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 6 BUSINESS OVERVIEW
