Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1 ACCOuNTING POLICIES GrOuP AND COMPANy General information Shanks Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, which are stated at fair value.
The policies set out below have been consistently applied.
The Group has applied all accounting standards and interpretations issued relevant to its operations and effective for accounting periods beginning on 1 April 2009.
The following new standards and amendments to standards, which are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 April 2009, are relevant for the Group: IAS 1 revised, Presentation of financial statements, requires non-owner changes in equity to be shown in either one performance statement the statement of comprehensive income or two statements the income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
The Group has elected to present two statements.
Owner changes in equity are required to be shown in a statement of changes in equity.
IFRS 2 amendment, Share-based payments Vesting conditions and cancellations, clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions and performance conditions only.
Other features that are not vesting conditions are required to be included in the grant date fair value.
The impact of this on the results presented has not been significant.
The following new standards and interpretations, which are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 April 2009, are relevant but were already applied by the Group: IFRS 8, Operating segments: and IAS 23, Borrowing Costs revised.
The following amendments to standards and interpretations, which are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 April 2009, are either not currently relevant or material for the Group: IAS 39 amendment, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurements: IAS 39 and IFRS 7 amendment, Reclassification of financial assets: IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes: IFRIC 14, The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction: IFRIC 15, Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate: IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation: and IFRIC 18, Transfer of Assets from Customers.
It is anticipated that the adoption of the following amendments to standards and interpretations in future periods which were also in issue but were not effective at the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, will have no material impact on the results of the Group.
IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009: IAS 39 Amendment, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009: IFRS 1 Revised, First-time Adoption of IFRS, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009: IFRS 2 Amendment, Share-based Payment Group Cash settled Share-based Payment Transactions, effective for annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2010, subject to EU endorsement: IFRS 1 Amendment, Additional Exemptions for First-time Adopters, effective for annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2010, subject to EU endorsement: Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 70 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IAS 32 Amendment, Classification of Rights Issues, effective for annual periods commencing on or after 1 February 2010: IFRIC 14 Amendment, Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011, subject to EU endorsement: IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010, subject to EU endorsement: IAS 24 Revised, Related Party Disclosures, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011, subject to EU endorsement: and IFRS 1 Amendment, Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010, subject to EU endorsement.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The most significant judgements made relate to assumptions concerning discount rates, future returns on assets and future contribution rates in connection with the Groups retirement benefit schemes see note 24.
In making these assumptions, the Group takes advice from qualified actuaries.
Other significant judgements made relate to tax see note 8, provisions see note 23 and PFI contracts see below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of Shanks Group plc and all its subsidiary undertakings subsidiaries.
Entities which are jointly controlled with another party or parties joint ventures are incorporated in the financial statements by proportional consolidation.
The results of subsidiaries and joint ventures acquired or sold during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements up to, or from, the date control passes.
Wholly owned subsidiary companies set up under PFI contracts are fully consolidated by the Group.
PFI contracts The Groups PFI contracts are all Integrated Waste Management contracts.
In these contracts, the existing Local Authority waste management services are operated by the Group from inception of the contract.
The PFI contract requires the building of new infrastructure to add to that inherited from the previous service provider and all rights to the infrastructure pass to the Local Authority at the termination or expiry of the contract.
The payments made to contractors for the construction of the infrastructure are accounted for as financial assets.
The Group accounts for the service element as revenue and the repayment element is deducted from the financial asset.
Interest receivable is added to the financial asset based on the rate implied in the contract payments.
Reviews are undertaken regularly to ensure that the financial asset will be recovered over the contract life.
Borrowing costs relating to contract specific external borrowings are expensed in the income statement.
Bid costs are expensed in the income statement until the Group is appointed preferred bidder and there is a high probability that a contract will be awarded.
Bid costs incurred after this point are capitalised within trade and other receivables.
When the contract is awarded, the costs are included in the relevant financial asset.
Win fees are transferred to deferred income upon financial close and released to the income statement over the period of construction of the PFI facilities.
Revenue Revenue represents the invoiced value of waste streams processed and other services provided including landfill tax but excluding sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when processing occurs or when the service is provided.
Exceptional items Items are classified as exceptional and disclosed separately due to their size or incidence to enable a better understanding of performance.
These include but are not limited to significant impairments and the profit or loss on disposals of properties.
Share-based payments The fair value of options granted is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Adjustments to the amounts expensed are only made in respect of non-market related factors.
Discontinued operations A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business.
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale, if earlier.
71 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 ACCOuNTING POLICIES GrOuP AND COMPANy CONTINUED Intangible assets i Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Separately recognised goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Any impairment is charged immediately to the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash generating units or groups of cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to the date of transition to IFRS 31 March 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP net book value following impairment tests.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated.
The profit or loss on disposal or closure of a business is calculated after taking into account any goodwill excluding amounts previously written off to reserves prior to 1998. ii Landfill void When landfill operations are acquired, landfill void is capitalised based on the fair value of the void acquired and is amortised over its estimated useful life on a void usage basis.
iii Other intangibles Other intangible assets are capitalised on the basis of the fair value of the assets acquired or on the basis of costs incurred to purchase and bring the assets into use.
These are amortised over the estimated useful life on a straight line basis as follows: Computer software 1 to 5 years Waste permits 5 to 20 years Other 5 to 10 years Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment except for freehold land is stated at cost less depreciation and provision for any impairment.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
i Buildings, plant and machinery Depreciation is provided on these assets to write off their cost by equal annual installments over the expected useful economic lives.
The expected useful life of buildings is 25 to 50 years.
Plant and machinery lives are: Computer equipment 1 to 5 years Mobile plant 5 years Generation equipment 8 to 15 years Heavy goods vehicles 5 to 10 years Other items 3 to 20 years ii Landfill sites Site development costs including engineering works and the discounted cost of final site restoration are capitalised.
These costs are written off over the operational life of each site based on the amount of void space consumed.
Impairment of assets Assets other than goodwill are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated in order to determine the extent of any impairment loss.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value.
If the recoverable amount is estimated to be less than the carrying amount the asset is reduced to the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately as an operating expense.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 72 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Leased assets i Finance leases Where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a leased asset, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
Leased assets are included in property, plant and equipment at the total of the capital elements of the payments during the lease term and the corresponding obligation is included in payables.
Depreciation is provided to write down the assets over the expected useful life or the lease term, which ever is the shorter.
ii Operating leases All leases other than finance leases are treated as operating leases.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the income statement in the year to which they relate.
The obligation to pay future rentals on operating leases is shown in note 28 to the accounts.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and are measured on a first in first out basis.
Government grants and subsidies Capital related government grants are released to the income statement evenly over the expected useful lives of the assets to which they relate.
Revenue grants and subsidies are credited in the same period as the items to which they relate.
Unprocessed waste The accrual or deferred income relating to unprocessed waste is calculated at the higher of sales value or processing cost.
Where there is a significant delay between the acceptance of waste and its final disposal then profit may be recognised in advance of final disposal over the period of delay provided the outcome of the waste treatment process is certain.
Deferred consideration Deferred consideration is provided for at the net present value NPV of the Groups expected cost or receipt at the date of acquisition or disposal.
The likelihood of payment for deferred consideration conditional on meeting certain performance targets is considered on acquisition or disposal.
Any differences between consideration accrued and consideration paid or received are charged or released to the income statement.
Site restoration provision Full provision is made for the NPV of the Groups unavoidable costs in relation to restoration liabilities at its landfill sites and this value is capitalised and amortised over the useful life of the site.
In addition the Group continues to provide for the NPV of intermediate restoration costs over the life of its landfill sites and mineral extraction sites, based on the quantity of waste deposited or mineral extracted in the year.
Aftercare provision Provision is made for the NPV of post closure costs at the Groups landfill sites based on the quantity of waste deposited in the year.
Similar costs incurred during the operating life of the sites are written off directly to the income statement and not charged to the provision.
Discounting All long term provisions for deferred consideration, restoration, aftercare and onerous leases are calculated based on the NPV of estimated future costs.
The effects of inflation and unwinding of the discount element on existing provisions are reflected within the financial statements as a finance charge.
The real discount factor currently applied is 2%.
Retirement benefits The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits under IAS19 Employee Benefits.
For defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst plan assets are recorded at market value.
The operating and financing costs of the plans are recognised separately in the income statement and actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full through the statement of comprehensive income.
Surpluses on defined benefit plans are recognised only to the extent that they are recoverable.
Movements in irrecoverable surpluses are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged to the income statement as they become due.
The Group participates in several multi-employer schemes in the Netherlands.
These are accounted for as defined contribution plans as it is not possible to split the assets and liabilities of the schemes between participating companies, and the Group has been informed by the schemes that it has no obligation to make additional contributions in the event that the schemes have an overall deficit.
73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 ACCOuNTING POLICIES GrOuP AND COMPANy CONTINUED Tax i Current tax Current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years or that are never taxable or deductible.
The liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted, or substantially enacted, by the balance sheet date.
ii Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in full where the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the financial statements is different to the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profits.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that the taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited through the statement of comprehensive income or directly to reserves, when it is charged or credited there.
Foreign currencies Foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the year end exchange rate.
Transactions and the results of overseas subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures in foreign currencies are translated at the average rate of exchange for the year and the resulting exchange differences are recognised in the Groups exchange reserve.
Cumulative exchange differences are recognised in the income statement in the year in which an overseas subsidiary undertaking is disposed of.
The Group applies the hedge accounting principles of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement relating to net investment hedging to offset the exchange differences arising on foreign currency denominated borrowings with the translation of foreign operations.
Net investment hedges are accounted for by recognising exchange rate movements in the exchange reserve, with any hedge ineffectiveness being charged to the income statement in the period the ineffectiveness arises.
Financial instruments i Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry interest and are stated at their nominal value reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
ii Financial assets relating to PFI contracts Financial assets relating to PFI contracts are classified as loans and receivables and are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration paid and subsequently amortised using the effective interest rate method.
iii Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with a maturity of three months or less.
iv External borrowings Interest bearing bank loans are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis to the income statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the borrowings to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
v Trade payables Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
vi Derivative financial instruments As part of the Groups PFI contracts and loan facility requirements, the Group has a number of interest rate swaps.
Swaps entered into before 31 March 2009 are measured at fair value at each reporting date with gains or losses between period ends being taken to finance charges in the income statement.
Swaps entered into after 31 March 2009 are considered to be used for hedging purposes when it alters the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk management policies and is in accordance with established guidelines, which require that the hedging relationship is documented at its inception, ensure that the derivative is highly effective in achieving its objective, and require that its effectiveness can be reliably measured.
The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument which is effective is recognised directly in equity while any ineffectiveness is recognised in the income statement.
The gains or losses that are recognised directly in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the highly probable forecast transaction affects income, for example when the future interest payment is required.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 74 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
