Charitable and Political Donations Galloway, Argyll & Bute and Cumbria Councils.
Under these contracts the Group is responsible for managing the municipal During the financial year donations made by the Group for wastes and recyclables collected by the local authority or their charitable purposes amounted to 2,000 2009: 550. in subcontractors.
in The Netherlands, the Groups hazardous the UK, through the Landfill Communities Fund, the Group waste business has long term contracts with the oil and gas has also supported local environmental and social projects industry and is a major supplier of cleaning services to the in areas around its remaining landfill sites.
This Fund aims to petrochemical industry.
The Netherlands business also has a offset some of the negative impacts of residing near to such number of long term source segregated organic contracts with sites by enabling operators to channel a proportion of their municipalities and provinces.
in Belgium there are a number of landfill tax liability to not-for-profit organisations to undertake municipal waste collection contracts, the largest being for the projects such as disused land restoration, public park city of Liege under a ten year contract which was renewed in maintenance and habitat conservation.
During the financial 2005. in addition, the Foronex business in Belgium has a small year over 550,000 was applied for these purposes.
in number of long-term wood supply agreements with biomass addition, staff at individual Group businesses have organised burning renewable energy producing plants.
various fund raising events to support local and national charities.
No donations were made by the Group for political Disclosure of Information to the Companys Auditors purposes during the financial year 2009: Nil.
Each of the Companys Directors in office as at the date of this Payment of Suppliers report confirms that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information in connection with preparing their report of The Company does not currently subscribe to any code or which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each Director has standard on payment practice.
it is the Companys policy, taken all steps which he ought to have taken as a Director in however, to settle terms of payment with suppliers when order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that suppliers and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the terms of payment.
The amount owed to trade creditors at the Annual General Meeting year end in proportion to the amounts invoiced by suppliers Notice of the AGM of the Company to be held at the offices during the year, expressed as a number of days, was 66 days of the Royal Bank of Scotland, 250 Bishopsgate, London, 2009: 68 days for the Group and was 33 days 2009: 34 EC2M 4AA on Thursday 22 July 2010 at 11.00am will be made days for the Company.
available to shareholders, together with a form of proxy, and will Change of Control - Significant Agreements also be available on the website at www.
The Groups principal financing instrument at 31 March Resolutions will be proposed to receive the 2010 Report 2010, a multicurrency 360m term loan and revolving credit and Accounts, approve the 2010 Remuneration Report, refacility with six major banks, contains an option for those elect the Chairman and Non-executive Directors, re-appoint banks to declare by notice that all sums outstanding under  LLP as auditors of the Company and that agreement are repayable immediately in the event of a authorise the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
change of control of the Company.
Any such notice may take Shareholders will also be asked to renew the general authority effect no earlier than thirty days from the change of control of the Directors to issue shares, together with the authority to and, if exercised at 31 March 2010, would have required the disapply pre-emption rights and authorise the Company to make repayment of 194.4m in principal and interest.
purchases of its own shares.
A resolution will also be proposed to authorise the Company to call a general meeting on not less The 2001 notes issued under the Groups private placement than fourteen clear days notice.
Finally, a resolution will be contain an option for the noteholders to enforce prepayment proposed to delete provisions of the Companys Memorandum between thirty days and sixty days from a change of control of and adopt new Articles of Association for the Company to take outstanding principal and interest which would have amounted account of recent changes in the law, including provisions in total at 31 March 2010 to 32.6m.
in addition, a make-whole enacted by the Companies Act 2006. payment amounting to 4.4m which is not provided for in these financial statements would be payable to private placement The Directors consider that all the resolutions to be proposed noteholders based on treasury yields at 31 March 2010. at the AGM to be held on 22 July 2010 are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and they in addition, the rules of the Companys employee share recommend unanimously that all shareholders vote in favour plans provide that awards and options may vest and become of the resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their exercisable on a change of control of the Company.
Persons with Whom the Company has Essential Contractual By order of the Board and Other Arrangements The Companys largest customers for its products and services include local authorities and municipalities.
in the UK these include, notably, long term integrated waste management Philip Griffin-Smith contracts with the East London waste Authority, Dumfries and Company Secretary 20 May 2010 49 GOVERNANCE
