Computershare can also be contacted by telephone on 0870 707 1290.
Shareholders can also manage their holding online by registering at www.
Shareholders who do not currently have their dividends paid directly to a bank or building society account and who wish to do so should complete a mandate form obtainable from Computershare.
Tax vouchers are sent to the shareholders registered address under this arrangement, unless requested otherwise.
Shareholders are strongly encouraged to receive their cash dividends by direct transfer as this ensures dividends are credited promptly and efficiently.
Electronic Shareholder Communication Following the introduction of new legislation shareholders may elect to receive future shareholder documents and information by email or via the Companys website.
This is intended to help the environment by reducing paper and transport as well as enabling the Company to save on administration, printing and postage costs.
The Shanks Group plc website contains copies of our financial reports, corporate news and other shareholder information.
Shareholder information will be made available by way of publication on the website.
Shareholders have the following options: Option A.
Receive email notification that documents and information are available on the Shanks Group plc website.
You may register for this option by registering your email address at www.
You will require your SRN or Shareholder Reference Number which can be found on either your Share Certificate or recent Dividend Certificate Tax Voucher.
If you choose this option, we will plant a tree under the Woodland Trusts tree for all campaign.
Receive all documents and information by post.
Option C. Receive notification by post that documents and information are available on the Shanks Group plc website including the Annual Report.
You may change your mind as to how you receive your shareholder information at any time by notifying Computershare.
You may also request a hard copy of a particular document at any time from the Company.
Low cost share dealing service A low cost, execution only share-dealing service for the purchase and sale of Shanks Group plc shares is available from Natwest Stockbrokers.
Natwest Stockbrokers is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority and is a member of the London Stock Exchange.
Natwest Stockbrokers, Premier Place, 2 Devonshire Square, London, EC2M 4BA.
