Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1 ACCOuNTING POLICIES GrOuP AND COMPANy General information Shanks Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, which are stated at fair value.
The policies set out below have been consistently applied.
The Group has applied all accounting standards and interpretations issued relevant to its operations and effective for accounting periods beginning on 1 April 2009.
The following new standards and amendments to standards, which are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 April 2009, are relevant for the Group: IAS 1 revised, Presentation of financial statements, requires non-owner changes in equity to be shown in either one performance statement the statement of comprehensive income or two statements the income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
The Group has elected to present two statements.
Owner changes in equity are required to be shown in a statement of changes in equity.
IFRS 2 amendment, Share-based payments Vesting conditions and cancellations, clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions and performance conditions only.
Other features that are not vesting conditions are required to be included in the grant date fair value.
The impact of this on the results presented has not been significant.
The following new standards and interpretations, which are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 April 2009, are relevant but were already applied by the Group: IFRS 8, Operating segments: and IAS 23, Borrowing Costs revised.
The following amendments to standards and interpretations, which are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 April 2009, are either not currently relevant or material for the Group: IAS 39 amendment, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurements: IAS 39 and IFRS 7 amendment, Reclassification of financial assets: IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes: IFRIC 14, The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction: IFRIC 15, Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate: IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation: and IFRIC 18, Transfer of Assets from Customers.
It is anticipated that the adoption of the following amendments to standards and interpretations in future periods which were also in issue but were not effective at the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, will have no material impact on the results of the Group.
IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009: IAS 39 Amendment, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009: IFRS 1 Revised, First-time Adoption of IFRS, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009: IFRS 2 Amendment, Share-based Payment Group Cash settled Share-based Payment Transactions, effective for annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2010, subject to EU endorsement: IFRS 1 Amendment, Additional Exemptions for First-time Adopters, effective for annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2010, subject to EU endorsement: Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 70 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
