Computershare can also be contacted by telephone on 0870 707 1290.
Shareholders can also manage their holding online by registering at www.
Shareholders who do not currently have their dividends paid directly to a bank or building society account and who wish to do so should complete a mandate form obtainable from Computershare.
Tax vouchers are sent to the shareholders registered address under this arrangement, unless requested otherwise.
Shareholders are strongly encouraged to receive their cash dividends by direct transfer as this ensures dividends are credited promptly and efficiently.
Electronic Shareholder Communication Following the introduction of new legislation shareholders may elect to receive future shareholder documents and information by email or via the Companys website.
This is intended to help the environment by reducing paper and transport as well as enabling the Company to save on administration, printing and postage costs.
The Shanks Group plc website contains copies of our financial reports, corporate news and other shareholder information.
Shareholder information will be made available by way of publication on the website.
Shareholders have the following options: Option A.
Receive email notification that documents and information are available on the Shanks Group plc website.
You may register for this option by registering your email address at www.
You will require your SRN or Shareholder Reference Number which can be found on either your Share Certificate or recent Dividend Certificate Tax Voucher.
If you choose this option, we will plant a tree under the Woodland Trusts tree for all campaign.
Receive all documents and information by post.
Option C. Receive notification by post that documents and information are available on the Shanks Group plc website including the Annual Report.
You may change your mind as to how you receive your shareholder information at any time by notifying Computershare.
You may also request a hard copy of a particular document at any time from the Company.
Low cost share dealing service A low cost, execution only share-dealing service for the purchase and sale of Shanks Group plc shares is available from Natwest Stockbrokers.
Natwest Stockbrokers is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority and is a member of the London Stock Exchange.
Natwest Stockbrokers, Premier Place, 2 Devonshire Square, London, EC2M 4BA.
109 SHAREHOLDER & COMPANY INFORMATION Shar Shareholder and Company Infor eholder and Company Information mation Shareholder Information continued Shareholder warning unsolicited mail In recent years many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turns out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and make a record of any information they give you: check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved.
uk register: the FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted UK investors.
Any approach from such an organisation should be reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate action can be considered.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts form.
shtml or if you do not have internet access, by telephone on 0300 500 5000: and inform our Registrars on 0870 707 1290.
Details of any sharedealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.
Share price information On 31 March 2010, the middle market price of Shanks Group plc ordinary 10 pence shares was 101 pence per share, having varied during the year between a low of 48.47 pence rebased and a high of 135.2 pence.
Share price information on Shanks Group plc is widely available in the financial press and on financial websites.
The ISIN International Securities Identification Number code for the Companys ordinary shares is GB0007995243 and the SEDOL Stock Exchange Official Daily List number is 0799524.
ShareGift If shareholders have only a small number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell, they may wish to consider donating them to the charity ShareGift registered charity no.
Further information may be obtained from their website at www.
Company Websites The Shanks Group plc website, containing Company details, financial information and current news can be found at www.
The website for Shanks companies within Belgium can be found at www.
be, that for the Netherlands at www.
nl, that for the United Kingdom at www.
co. uk and that for Canada at www.
Financial calendar 7 July 2010 Ex-dividend date for final 2010 dividend 9 July 2010 Record date for final 2010 dividend 22 July 2010 Annual General Meeting 6 August 2010 Payment of final 2010 dividend November 2010 Announcement of interim results and dividends January 2011 Payment of interim dividend 31 March 2011 2011 financial year ends May 2011 Announcement of 2011 results and dividend recommendation For updates to the calendar during the year, please visit our website.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 110 110 SHAREHOLDER & COMPANY INFORMATION
