Governance Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy The principal objectives of the Remuneration Committee, which is chaired by Mr E van Amerongen and comprises the Non-executive Directors, are to attract, retain and motivate high quality senior management with a competitive package of incentives and awards linked to performance and the interests of shareholders.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the Executive Directors are fairly rewarded taking into account all elements of their remuneration package in the light of the Groups performance.
The Committee has appointed Deloitte LLP to provide independent market information and advice relating to executive remuneration and benefits.
Deloitte LLP are considered to be independent as they provide only very limited other services to the Group.
As described below, a significant proportion of potential total remuneration is performance related and is built around annual and longer term incentives.
For Directors achieving median performance, performance related pay would represent approximately 40% of total remuneration.
if performance were such that the maximum award available under each incentive scheme was paid, performance related pay would represent approximately 70% of total remuneration.
Basic Salary The basic salary element is determined primarily by reference to external data which takes into account the Executive Directors duties and responsibilities.
Basic salary is generally reviewed on an annual basis or following a significant change in responsibilities.
in recognition of their performance, the importance of retention and market comparison of Executive Director remuneration, the Committee awarded pay increases with effect from 1 April 2010.
Mr T Drurys basic salary was increased from 390,000 to 420,000 per annum and that of Mr C. Surch from 250,000 to 275,000 per annum.
Annual Cash Bonuses Annual cash bonuses for Executive Directors are paid at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee as a percentage of base salary dependent upon corporate financial performance compared to target and achievement of personal objectives.
For the year to 31 March 2010 having considered previously the advice of remuneration consultants and consulted with shareholders, a minimum 10% of salary was payable for threshold corporate financial performance, representing 90% of budget.
A total of 25% and 20% of salary was payable to the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director respectively for achievement of 2009 10 budget whilst a maximum 75% and 50% respectively would be payable for outperformance of budget.
Together with the retained 25% component for achievement of personal objectives, which included a cash target element based on underlying free cash flow as a percentage of trading profit, the maximum aggregate bonus potential for the positions of Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director were 100% and 75% respectively, having been reduced from 125% and 100% in the previous year.
Minimum threshold performance of the corporate financial component was exceeded for 2009 10 equating to a pro-rated entitlement of 19.4% and 16.3% of base salary for Mr T Drury and Mr C Surch respectively.
Together with achievement of personal objectives relating to 18.8% of base salary for both Directors, the Remuneration Committee determined that total bonuses of 38.2% and 35.1% be awarded to Mr T Drury and Mr C Surch respectively.
A proportion of these payments equivalent to 35.2% and 30.3% of salary based on forecast financial performance and an assessment of personal objectives was paid to Mr T Drury and Mr C Surch respectively at the end of March 2010, subject to a strict clawback mechanism in the event of potential overpayment.
The outstanding proportion of bonus now due will be paid in June 2010.
Given the ongoing difficulty in predicting financial performance and forecasting earnings in the current economic climate the Remuneration Committee have determined to operate a similar but more stretching bonus plan for 2010 11 based on the achievement of Full Potential Plan targets.
The Full Potential Plan represents a stretch of approximately 13% on profit before tax.
For the corporate financial performance element 25% of base salary will be paid as a bonus for achievement of budget, with up to 75% payable for achievement of the Full Potential Plan.
Together with a 25% component for achievement of personal objectives, including an underlying free cash flow target element, the maximum aggregate bonus potential for both Executive Directors is 100%.
The Remuneration Committee will continue to review these arrangements for future years.
Long Term Incentive Plan Under the Long Term incentive Plan LTiP Executive Directors and senior employees may be granted an award annually, the vesting of which is subject to the attainment of performance conditions measured over a three year period.
Awards are in the form of Shanks Group plc shares.
The maximum value in any financial year is limited to 100% of basic salary as at the date of grant and is calculated on the Companys share price at that time.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 54 GOVERNANCE For awards up to and including those made in 2008, two performance conditions have been applied.
The first performance condition was based on Total Shareholder Return TSR, where the Companys TSR achieved during the three year performance period is measured against the TSR achieved by those companies that constituted the FTSE Support Services Sector immediately before the date of grant of an award.
An award will only vest in full if the Companys TSR results in it being ranked in the upper quartile of the companies in the comparator group where the company with the highest TSR is ranked first.
if the TSR of the Company results in a median position in the comparator group, then 25% of the award will vest.
Vesting above the median position is on a sliding scale.
if the Companys TSR for the performance period results in a position below the median then the award will lapse.
The second performance condition is based on Earnings per Share EPS and for an award to vest, the average growth in the Companys underlying EPS calculated on a consistent basis must exceed the growth in the Retail Price index over the same period by at least nine percentage points.
Having reviewed this performance condition and in light of market conditions at the time the Remuneration Committee increased this to twelve percentage points for those grants awarded during the financial year 2008 09.
The Remuneration Committee decided to amend the performance conditions for LTiP awards in 2009, adopting a single TSR condition as the best measure of performance.
As such the Companys TSR performance will be compared to the TSR of the FTSE Support Services Sector with awards only vesting to the extent the Committee is satisfied that the Companys TSR performance reflects underlying performance of the Company.
Reflecting a lowering of the share price and investor views on this topic, the Committee also decided to reduce award levels in 2009, the quantum of awards for Executive Directors being limited to 50% of basic salary compared to 100% of salary in 2008.
None of the awards will vest if the Companys TSR is ranked below median.
Subject to the underlying performance of the Company, awards with an initial value at grant of 25% of salary will vest at median performance with the balance vesting in full for upper quartile performance.
Awards will vest on a straight line basis between median and upper quartile.
The Remuneration Committee have determined to re-apply the 100% of basic salary limit for awards in 2010 and retain the TSR performance condition with 25% vesting for median performance.
During the year and pursuant to the 2009 Rights issue a standard HM Revenue & Customs HMRC formula was used to make fair adjustment to the number of outstanding LTiP awards.
The Committee also confirmed that as only one of the relevant two performance conditions for the financial year ended 31 March 2009 had been achieved, none of the awards granted in 2006 would vest.
The Committee determined the same result for those LTiPs granted in 2007.
The Shanks Group plc Employee Share Trust has been established for the purpose of granting awards under the LTiP and to hold shares in the Company either purchased in the market or new shares subscribed for, with funds provided by the Company or its subsidiaries.
As at 31 March 2010 the Employee Share Trust did not hold any of the Companys shares.
Shanks Group plc Total Shareholder Return for the period 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2010 225 Shanks Group plc 200 FTSE Support Services Sector 175 150 125 100 75 50 25 0 2005 06 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 2009 10 Source: Datastream The graph shows the Total Shareholder Return of the Company and that of the FTSE Support Services Sector index over the five year period to 31 March 2010.
This index has been selected as it is a broad equity index of which Shanks Group plc is a constituent member.
