Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Group and Company Under the terms of the sale agreement with Terra Firma for the disposal of the Groups UK landfill and power operations, the Group has given a number of indemnities and warranties relating to the disposed operations.
Provision is made for the Directors best estimate of all known legal claims and all legal actions in progress.
The Group takes legal advice as to the likelihood of success of claims and actions and no provision is made where the Directors consider, based on that advice, that the action is unlikely to succeed or a sufficiently reliable estimate of the potential obligation cannot be made.
The Company and certain subsidiaries have, in the normal course of business, given guarantees and performance bonds relating to the Groups contracts.
In addition the Company has contingent liabilities in respect of both VAT and HM Revenue & Customs group payment arrangements of 2.1m 2009: 0.2m.
The Company has given guarantees in respect of the Groups and subsidiary undertakings bank borrowing facilities totalling 37.5m 2009: 29.2m.
Joint Ventures The Groups joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities.
30 rELATED PArTy TrANSACTIONS Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries A list of the Companys principal subsidiaries is set out in note 31.
Transactions with subsidiaries relate to interest on intercompany loans and management charges.
Net interest expense was 7.0m 2009: 10.9m and management charges received were 3.8m 2009: 2.1m.
Total outstanding balances are listed in notes 19 and 22.
Remuneration of key management personnel Key management comprises the Board of Directors and the managing directors of the country operations.
The disclosures required by the Companies Act 2006 and those specified by the Financial Services Authority relating to Directors remuneration including pension benefits and incentive plans, interests in shares, share options and other interests, are set out within the Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 59, and form part of these financial statements.
The aggregate emoluments paid to the country managing directors was 984,000.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 106 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
