One Vision To be Europes leading provider of sustainable waste management solutions 1.1 VISION Context Across the world governments are urging the waste industry to support them in recovering more resources and energy from waste.
Legislation and fiscal incentives are increasingly used to encourage the move away from landfill.
This trend is driven by recognition of the role that more sustainable forms of waste management can play in accelerating the move to a low carbon economy and building a society that recognises the value of the earths finite resources.
The preferred approach is reflected in the Waste Hierarchy embedded in European and national waste legislation.
The Waste Hierarchy Prevention Reuse Recycling Shanks Shanks Energy Recovery Disposal Positioning Shanks is firmly positioning itself in the recycling and energy recovery area of the hierarchy.
Following recent divestments, Shanks has only minimal amounts of landfill left within its treatment portfolio.
Through investment in new technologies and processes, we are developing an infrastructure that can provide sustainable solutions that firstly maximise the recovery of reusable resources and then process the residue into renewable energy.
This approach is also known as zero waste.
Strategy Our vision is an ambitious but achievable one.
Whilst Shanks is not, and is unlikely to be, the largest waste company in Europe, we are a major player with high market share in the Benelux.
We already operate with high levels of recycling and are a market leader in implementing such technologies as Anaerobic Digestion, Mechanical Biological Treatment and the production of high calorific value fuel from waste.
Our growth strategy is to build upon this expertise and develop a reputation as the leading provider of sustainable alternatives to landfill and incineration.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 2 BUSINESS OVERVIEW ORGANIC PROCESSING Orgaworld operate a 100,000 tonnes per annum anaerobic digestion and 75,000 tonnes per annum tunnel composting facility in the municipality of Lelystad in the Netherlands 1 million tonnes The Shanks Group has capacity to treat over 1 million tonnes per annum of organic waste including garden waste, food waste and municipal solid waste through a network of organic waste treatment plants in the Netherlands, Belgium, the UK and Canada.
