Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 77 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 77 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 1 DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS Where applicable, all revenues are stated net of value added and similar taxes, and trade discounts.
No revenue is recognized for Shire plc and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as either Shire consideration, the value or receipt of which is dependent on future or the Group is a leading specialty biopharmaceutical company that events or future performance.
focuses on meeting the needs of the specialist physician.
The Groups principal revenue streams and their respective accounting The Group has grown through acquisition, completing a series of major treatments are discussed below: mergers or acquisitions that have brought therapeutic, geographic and pipeline growth and diversification.
The Group will continue to evaluate Product sales companies, products and pipeline opportunities that offer a good Revenue for the sale of products is recognized upon shipment to strategic fit and enhance shareholder value.
customers or at the time of delivery to the customer depending on the terms of sale.
Provisions for rebates, product returns and discounts Shires strategic goal is to become the leading specialty to customers are provided for as reductions to revenue in the same biopharmaceutical company that focuses on meeting the needs period as the related sales are recorded.
The Group monitors and of the specialist physician.
Shire focuses its business on attention tracks the amount of sales deductions based on historical experience deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD, human genetic therapies to estimate the reduction to revenues.
HGT and gastrointestinal GI diseases as well as opportunities in other specialty therapeutic areas to the extent they arise through Royalty income acquisitions.
Shires in-licensing, merger and acquisition efforts are Royalty income relating to licensed technology is recognized when focused on products in specialist markets with strong intellectual the licensee sells the underlying product, with the amount of royalty property protection and global rights.
Shire believes that a carefully income recorded based on sales information received from the relevant selected and balanced portfolio of products with strategically aligned licensee.
The Group estimates sales amounts and related royalty and relatively small-scale sales forces will deliver strong results.
income based on the historical product information for any period that the sales information is not available from the relevant licensee.
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Licensing revenues Other revenue includes revenues derived from product out-licensing a Basis of preparation agreements.
These arrangements typically consist of an initial up-front The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the payment on inception of the license and subsequent milestone accounts of Shire plc, all of its subsidiary undertakings and the Income payments dependent on achieving certain clinical and sales milestones.
Access Share trust, after elimination of inter-company accounts and transactions.
Noncontrolling interests in the equity and earnings or Initial license fees received in connection with product out-licensing losses of a consolidated subsidiary are reflected in Noncontrolling agreements, even where such fees are non-refundable and not interest in subsidiaries in the Groups consolidated balance sheet and creditable against future royalty payments, are deferred and recognized consolidated statements of income.
Noncontrolling interest adjusts the over the period in which the Group has continuing substantive Groups consolidated results of operations to present the net income performance obligations.
or loss attributable to the Group exclusive of the earnings or losses attributable to the noncontrolling interest.
The format and disclosure Milestone payments which are non-refundable, non creditable and of the comparative period information included in the consolidated contingent on achieving certain clinical milestones are recognized as financial statements has been presented in conformity with Securities revenues either on achievement of such milestones if the milestones and Exchange Commission SEC regulations.
are considered substantive or over the period the Group has continuing substantive performance obligations, if the milestones are not b Use of estimates in consolidated financial statements considered substantive.
If milestone payments are creditable against The preparation of consolidated financial statements, in conformity future royalty payments, the milestones are deferred and released over with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States the period in which the royalties are anticipated to be paid.
US GAAP and SEC regulations, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets d Sales deductions and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts i Rebates of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results Rebates primarily consist of statutory rebates to state Medicaid could differ from those estimates.
Estimates and assumptions agencies and contractual rebates with health-maintenance are primarily made in relation to the valuation of intangible assets, organizations.
These rebates are based on price differentials between the valuation of equity investments, sales deductions, income taxes, a base price and the selling price.
As a result, rebates generally provisions for litigation and legal proceedings, and contingent increase as a percentage of the selling price over the life of the product consideration receivable from product divestments.
Provisions for rebates are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded, c Revenue recognition with the amount of the rebate based on the Groups best estimate The Group recognizes revenue when: if any uncertainty exists over the unit rebate amount, and with estimates of future utilization derived from historical trends.
there is persuasive evidence of an agreement or arrangement: delivery of products has occurred or services have been rendered: ii Returns The Group estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that will result the sellers price to the buyer is fixed or determinable: and in a return, based on historical trends and when applicable, specific collectability is reasonably assured.
factors affecting certain products at the balance sheet date.
The accrual is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 78 78 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES h Advertising expense continued The Group expenses the cost of advertising as incurred.
Advertising costs amounted to $93.3 million, $81.3 million and $134.5 million for iii Coupons the years to December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively and were The Group uses coupons as a form of sales incentive.
An accrual is included within Selling, general and administrative SG&A expenses.
established based on the Groups expectation of the level of coupon redemption, estimated using historical trends.
The accrual is recorded i Research and development R&D expense as a reduction to revenue in the same period as the related sales are R&D costs are expensed as incurred.
Upfront and milestone payments recorded or the date the coupon is offered, if later than the date the made to third-parties for in-licensed products that have not yet related sales are recorded.
received marketing approval and for which no alternative future use has been identified are also expensed as incurred.
iv Discounts The Group offers cash discounts to customers for the early payment Milestone payments made to third-parties on and subsequent to of receivables which are recorded as reductions to revenue and regulatory approval are capitalized as intangible assets, and amortized accounts receivable in the same period as the related sale is recorded.
over the remaining useful life of the related product.
v Wholesaler chargebacks j Valuation and impairment of long-lived assets other than The Group has contractual agreements whereby it supplies certain goodwill and investments products to third-parties at predetermined prices.
Wholesalers acting The Group evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets other than as intermediaries in these transactions are reimbursed by the Group goodwill and investments for impairment whenever events or changes if the predetermined prices are less than the prices paid by the in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of the relevant wholesaler to the Group.
Accruals for wholesaler chargebacks, which assets may not be recoverable.
When such a determination is made, are based on historical trends, are recorded as reductions to revenue managements estimate of undiscounted cash flows to be generated in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
by the use and ultimate disposition of these assets is compared to the carrying value of the assets to determine whether the carrying value e Collaborative arrangements is recoverable.
If the carrying value is deemed not to be recoverable, The Group enters into collaborative arrangements to develop and the amount of the impairment recognized in the consolidated financial commercialize drug candidates.
These collaborative arrangements statements is determined by estimating the fair value of the relevant often require up-front, milestone, royalty or profit share payments, assets and recording an impairment loss for the amount by which or a combination of these, with payments often contingent upon the the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value.
This fair value success of the related development and commercialization efforts.
is usually determined based on estimated discounted cash flows.
Collaboration agreements entered into by the Group may also include expense reimbursements or other such payments to the k Finance costs of debt collaborating partner.
Finance costs relating to debt issued are recorded as a deferred charge and amortized to the consolidated statements of income The Group reports costs incurred and revenue generated from over the period to the earliest redemption date of the debt, using the transactions with third-parties as well as payments between parties effective interest rate method.
On extinguishment of the related debt, to collaborative arrangements either on a gross or net basis, any unamortized deferred financing costs are written off and charged depending on the characteristics of the collaborative relationship.
to interest expense in the consolidated statements of income.
f Cost of product sales l Foreign currency Cost of product sales includes the cost of purchasing finished product Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into for sale, the cost of raw materials and manufacturing for those the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary in which they arise products that are manufactured by the Group, shipping and handling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Transactions costs, depreciation and amortization of intangible assets in respect in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency of favorable manufacturing contracts.
Royalties payable on products at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Transaction to which the Group does not own the rights are also included in Cost gains and losses, other than those related to current and deferred of product sales.
tax assets and liabilities, are recognized in arriving at income from continuing operations before income taxes, equity in earnings losses g Leased assets of equity-method investees and discontinued operations.
Transaction The costs of operating leases are charged to operations on a straightgains and losses arising on foreign currency denominated current line basis over the lease term, even if rental payments are not made and deferred tax assets and liabilities are included within income taxes on such a basis.
in the consolidated statements of income.
Assets acquired under capital leases are included in the consolidated The results of operations for subsidiaries, whose functional currency is balance sheet as property, plant and equipment and are depreciated not the US dollar, are translated into the US dollar at the average rates over the shorter of the period of the lease or their useful lives.
of exchange during the period, with the subsidiaries balance sheets The capital element of future lease payments is recorded as a liability, translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The cumulative while the interest element is charged to operations over the period effect of exchange rate movements is included in a separate of the lease to produce a level yield on the balance of the capital component of Other comprehensive income.
Foreign currency exchange transaction gains included in consolidated net income in the years to December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 amounted to $1.7 million, $2.3 million and $4.6 million respectively.
Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 79 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 79 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Group records deferred tax assets for awards that result in continued deductions on the Groups income tax returns, based on the amount of compensation cost recognized and the Groups statutory tax rate m Income taxes in the jurisdiction in which it will receive a deduction.
Differences Uncertain tax positions are recognized in the consolidated financial between the deferred tax assets recognized for financial reporting statements for positions which are considered more likely than not of purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on the Groups income being sustained based on the technical merits of the position on audit tax return are recorded in additional paid-in capital if the tax deduction by the tax authorities.
The measurement of the tax benefit recognized exceeds the deferred tax asset or in the consolidated statements in the consolidated financial statements is based upon the largest of income if the deferred tax asset exceeds the tax deduction and amount of tax benefit that, in managements judgement, is greater than no additional paid-in capital exists from previous awards.
50% likely of being realized based on a cumulative probability assessment of the possible outcomes.
The Group recognizes interest The Groups share-based compensation plans are described more relating to unrecognized tax benefits and penalties within income taxes.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for differences p Cash and cash equivalents between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Cash and cash equivalents are defined as short-term highly liquid consolidated financial statements and the tax bases of assets and investments with original maturities of ninety days or less.
liabilities that will result in future taxable or deductible amounts.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted q Financial  tax laws and rates applicable to the periods in which the differences The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure are expected to affect taxable income.
to foreign exchange risk associated with third-party transactions and inter-company financing.
These instruments consist of swap and Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Group does not apply hedge in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some accounting for these instruments.
The fair values of these instruments portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
are included on the balance sheet in current assets liabilities, with changes in the fair value recognized in the consolidated statements n Earnings per share of income.
The cash flows relating to these instruments are presented Basic earnings per share is based upon net income attributable within net cash provided by operating activities in the consolidated to Shire plc divided by the weighted-average number of Ordinary statement of cash flows, unless the derivative instruments are Shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share economically hedging specific investing or financing activities.
is based upon net income attributable to Shire plc adjusted for the impact of interest expense on convertible debt on an if-converted r Inventories basis where the effect is dilutive divided by the weighted-average Inventories are stated at the lower of cost including manufacturing number of Ordinary Share equivalents outstanding during the period, overheads, where appropriate or market.
Cost incurred in bringing adjusted for the dilutive effect of all potential Ordinary Shares that each product to its present location and condition is based on were outstanding during the year.
Such potentially dilutive shares are purchase costs calculated on a first-in, first-out basis, including excluded when the effect would be to increase diluted earnings per transportation costs.
share or reduce the diluted loss per share.
Inventories include costs relating to both marketed products and, o Share-based compensation for certain products, cost incurred prior to regulatory approval.
Share-based compensation represents the cost of share-based Inventories are capitalized prior to regulatory approval if the Group awards granted to employees.
The Group measures share-based considers that it is probable that the US Food and Drug Administration compensation cost for awards classified as equity at the grant date, FDA or another regulatory body will grant commercial and based on the estimated fair value of the award.
Predominantly all manufacturing approval for the relevant product, and it is probable of the Groups awards have service and or performance conditions that the value of capitalized inventories will be recovered through and the fair values of these awards are estimated using a Blackcommercial sale.
Inventories are written down for estimated obsolescence or For share-based compensation awards which cliff vest, the Group unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost recognizes the cost of the relevant share-based payment award of inventory and estimated market value based upon assumptions as an expense on a straight-line basis net of estimated forfeitures about future demand and market conditions.
If actual market over the employees requisite service period.
For those share-based conditions are less favorable than those anticipated, inventory compensation awards with a graded vesting schedule, the Group adjustments may be required.
recognizes the cost of the relevant share-based payment award as an expense on a straight-line basis net of estimated forfeitures over the s Assets held-for-sale requisite service period for the entire award that is, over the requisite An asset is classified as held-for-sale when, amongst other things, service period for the last separately vesting portion of the award.
the Group has committed to a plan of disposition, the asset is available The share-based compensation expense is recorded in Cost for immediate sale, and the plan is not expected to change significantly.
of product sales, R&D, and SG&A in the consolidated statements Assets held-for-sale are carried at the lower of their carrying amount of income based on the employees respective functions.
or fair value less cost to sell.
Assets acquired in a business combination that will be sold rather than held and used are classified as held-for sale at the date of acquisition when it is probable that the Group will dispose of the assets within one year.
Newly acquired assets held-for-sale are carried at their fair value less cost to sell at the acquisition date.
The Group does not record depreciation or amortization on assets classified as held-for-sale.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 80 80 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES v Goodwill and Other intangible assets continued i Goodwill t Investments In business combinations completed subsequent to January 1, 2009, The Group has certain investments in pharmaceutical and goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration biotechnology companies.
given and the fair value of any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
For Investments are accounted for using the equity-method of accounting business combinations completed prior to January 1, 2009 goodwill if the investment gives the Group the ability to exercise significant represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given influence, but not control over, the investee.
Significant influence is over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
generally deemed to exist if the Group has an ownership interest in the voting stock of the investee between 20% and 50%, although other Goodwill is not amortized to operations, but instead is reviewed factors such as representation on the investees Board of Directors and for impairment, at least annually or whenever events or changes the nature of commercial arrangements, are considered in determining in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be whether the equity-method of accounting is appropriate.
For the purpose of assessing the carrying value of equity-method of accounting, the Group records its investments in goodwill for impairment, goodwill has been allocated to the Groups equity-method investees in the consolidated balance sheet under two reporting units, being SP and HGT.
Events or changes in Investments and its share of the investees earnings or losses together circumstances which could trigger an impairment review include: with other-than-temporary impairments in value under equity in significant underperformance of a reporting unit relative to expected earnings losses of equity-method investees in the consolidated historical or projected future operating results: significant changes statements of income.
in the manner of the Groups use of acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business: and significant negative industry trends.
All other equity investments, which consist of investments for which the Group does not have the ability to exercise significant influence, Goodwill is reviewed for impairment by comparing the carrying value are accounted for under the cost method or at fair value.
Investments of each reporting units net assets including allocated goodwill to the in private companies are carried at cost, less provisions for other-thanfair value of the reporting unit.
If the reporting units carrying amount temporary impairment in value.
For public companies that have readily is greater than its fair value, a second step is performed whereby the determinable fair values, the Group classifies its equity investments as portion of the reporting units fair value relating to goodwill is compared available-for-sale and, accordingly, records these investments at their to the carrying value of the reporting units goodwill.
The Group fair values with unrealized holding gains and losses included in the recognizes a goodwill impairment charge for the amount by which the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, net of any related carrying value of goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value.
Realized gains and losses, and declines in value of availablehas determined that there are no impairment losses in respect of for-sale securities judged to be other-than-temporary, are included goodwill for any of the reporting periods covered by these consolidated in other income expense, net see Note 27.
The cost of securities financial statements.
sold is based on the specific identification method.
Interest and dividends on securities classified as available-for-sale are included ii Other intangible assets as interest income.
Other intangible assets principally comprise intellectual property rights for products with a defined revenue stream and IPR&D.
Intellectual u Property, plant and equipment property rights for currently marketed products are recorded at cost Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost reduced for and amortized over the estimated useful life of the related product, impairment losses, less accumulated depreciation.
The cost which ranges from 5 to 35 years weighted-average 16 years.
of significant assets includes capitalized interest incurred during the IPR&D acquired through a business combination which completed construction period.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis subsequent to January 1, 2009 is capitalized as an indefinite lived at rates calculated to write-off the cost less estimated residual value intangible asset until the completion or abandonment of the associated of each asset over its estimated useful life as follows: R&D efforts.
Once the R&D efforts are completed the useful life of the relevant assets will be determined, and the IPR&D asset amortized Buildings 15 to 50 years over this useful economic life.
Office furniture, fittings and equipment 3 to 10 years Warehouse, laboratory and manufacturing The following factors are considered in estimating the useful lives equipment 3 to 15 years of Other intangible assets: The cost of land is not depreciated.
Assets under the course ofexpected use of the asset: construction are not depreciated until the relevant assets are available regulatory, legal or contractual provisions, including the regulatory and ready for their intended use.
approval and review process, patent issues and actions by government agencies: Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to the consolidated statements of income as incurred.
The costs of majorthe effects of obsolescence, changes in demand, competing renewals and improvements are capitalized.
At the time property, products and other economic factors, including the stability of the plant and equipment is retired or otherwise disposed of, the cost market, known technological advances, development of competing and accumulated depreciation are eliminated from the asset and drugs that are more effective clinically or economically: accumulated depreciation accounts.
The profit or loss on such actions of competitors, suppliers, regulatory agencies or others disposition is reflected in operating income.
that may eliminate current competitive advantages: and historical experience of renewing or extending similar arrangements.
Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 81 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 81 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements continued On January 1, 2010 the Group adopted new guidance issued by the FASB requiring new disclosures for amounts transferred in and out When a number of factors apply to an intangible asset, these factors of Levels 1 and 2 and for activity in Level 3 of the hierarchy for fair are considered in combination when determining the appropriate useful value measurements.
The guidance also clarifies existing fair value life for the relevant asset.
measurement disclosures in respect of the level of disaggregation and disclosures about inputs and valuation techniques.
This guidance is w Non-monetary transactions effective for the Group from January 1, 2010, except for the additional The Group enters into certain non-monetary transactions that involve disclosures about activity in Level 3 of the hierarchy for fair value either the granting of a license over the Groups patents or the disposal measurements, which is effective from January 1, 2011 and for interim of an asset or group of assets in exchange for a nonmonetary asset, periods within that year.
The adoption of the guidance did not impact usually equity.
The Group accounts for these transactions at fair value the Groups disclosure on fair value measurement.
if the Group is able to determine the fair value within reasonable limits.
To the extent the Group concludes that it is unable to determine the fair To be adopted in future periods value of a transaction, that transaction is accounted for at the recorded amounts of the assets exchanged.
Management is required to exercise Revenue Recognition in Multiple Deliverable Revenue its judgement in determining whether or not the fair value of the asset Arrangements received or given up can be determined.
In September 2009, the FASB issued guidance on revenue recognition in multiple deliverable revenue arrangements.
This amends the existing x New accounting pronouncements guidance on allocating consideration received between the elements in a multiple-deliverable arrangement and establishes a selling price Adopted during the period hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable.
The selling price used for each deliverable will be based on vendor specific Amendments to the Accounting and Disclosure Requirements objective evidence VSOE if available, third-party evidence if VSOE for the Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities is not available, or estimated selling price if neither VSOE or third-party On January 1, 2010 the Group adopted new guidance issued by the evidence is available.
It replaces the term fair value in the revenue Financial Accounting Standard Board FASB on the consolidation allocation with selling price to clarify that the allocation of revenue of variable interest entities.
This guidance changes how a reporting is based on entity specific assumptions rather than the assumptions entity determines when an entity that is insufficiently capitalized or is of a marketplace participant.
The guidance eliminates the residual not controlled through voting or similar rights should be consolidated.
method of allocation and requires that arrangement consideration be The determination of whether a reporting entity is required to allocated using the relative selling price method.
The guidance also consolidate another entity is based on, among other things, the other significantly expands the disclosures related to a vendors multipleentitys purpose and design and the reporting entitys ability to direct deliverable revenue arrangements.
It will be effective prospectively the activities of the other entity that most significantly impact the other for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified for fiscal entitys economic performance.
The guidance also requires a reporting years beginning on or after June 15, 2010.
The guidance is being entity to provide additional disclosures about its involvement with adopted for new or materially modified arrangements from January 1, variable interest entities and any significant changes in risk exposure 2011.
The Group does not expect the guidance to have a material due to such involvement.
The adoption of the guidance did not effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations impact the Groups consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
Effect of Denominating the Exercise Price of a Share-Based The effective date of these amendments has been deferred for Payment Award in the Currency of the Market in Which the a reporting entitys interest in an entity 1 that has all the attributes Underlying Equity Security Trades of an investment company or 2 for which it is industry practice In April 2010, the FASB issued guidance on the effect of denominating to apply measurement principles for financial reporting purposes that the exercise price of a share-based payment award in the currency of are consistent with those followed by investment companies.
the market in which the underlying equity security trades.
This guidance clarifies that an employee share-based payment award with an Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets exercise price denominated in the currency of a market in which a On January 1, 2010 the Group adopted new guidance issued by the substantial portion of the entitys equity securities trades should not FASB on the accounting for transfers of financial assets.
This guidance be considered to contain a condition that is not a market, performance, requires more information about transfers of financial assets, including or service condition.
Therefore, an entity would not classify such an securitization transactions, and where entities have continuing award as a liability if it otherwise qualifies as equity.
The guidance will exposure to the risks related to transferred financial assets.
It eliminates be effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2010. the concept of a qualifying special-purpose entity, changes the The Group has historically accounted for share-based payment requirements for derecognizing financial assets, and requires additional awards in a manner consistent with the guidance, and therefore does disclosures.
The adoption of the guidance did not impact the Groups not expect the adoption of this guidance to impact its consolidated consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 82 82 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES y Scheme of arrangement continued Shire Limited now known as Shire plc was incorporated under the laws of Jersey Channel Islands on January 28, 2008, is a public Milestone Method of Revenue Recognition company limited by shares, and is tax resident in the Republic of In April 2010, the FASB issued guidance on defining a milestone and Ireland.
On May 23, 2008 Shire Limited became the holding company determining when it may be appropriate to apply the milestone method of the former holding company of the Shire Group Old Shire, now of revenue recognition for research or development transactions.
This called Shire Biopharmaceutical Holdings, pursuant to a scheme of guidance clarifies that: consideration that is contingent on achievement arrangement approved by the High Court of Justice in England and of a milestone in its entirety may be recognized as revenue in the period Wales and the shareholders of Old Shire the Scheme.
Prior to May in which the milestone is achieved only if the milestone is judged to 23, 2008 Shire Limited had not commenced trading or made any meet certain criteria to be considered substantive: milestones should profits or trading losses.
On October 1, 2008 Shire Limited changed be considered substantive in their entirety and may not be bifurcated: its name to Shire plc following the approval of the change of name an arrangement may contain both substantive and non substantive by shareholders at the Groups Annual General Meeting.
milestones: and each milestone should be evaluated individually to determine if it is substantive.
The guidance is effective on a prospective Pursuant to the Scheme, Ordinary Shares, each having a nominal basis for milestones achieved in fiscal years, and interim periods within value of 0.05 of Old Shire Shire Ordinary Shares were exchanged those years, beginning on or after June 15, 2010.
The Group does not for Ordinary Shares, each having a nominal value of 0.05, of Shire plc expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material effect on its Shire plc Ordinary Shares, on a one for one basis.
consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
Shire plc Ordinary Shares carry substantially the same rights as did Fees Paid to Federal Government by Pharmaceutical the Shire Ordinary Shares.
The Scheme did not involve any payment Manufacturers for the Shire plc Ordinary Shares.
Immediately after the Scheme In December 2010, the FASB issued guidance on the annual fee paid became effective, Shire plc had the same Board of Directors, by pharmaceutical manufacturers to the US Treasury in accordance management and corporate governance arrangements as Old Shire with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as amended by had immediately prior thereto.
The consolidated assets and liabilities the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act the Acts for each of Shire plc immediately after the effective time of the Scheme calendar year beginning on or after January 1, 2011.
The annual fee were substantially the same as the consolidated assets and liabilities ranges from $2.5 billion to $4.2 billion in total, a portion of which will of Old Shire immediately prior thereto.
be allocated to individual entities on the basis of the amount of their branded prescription drug sales for the preceding year as a percentage The Shire Ordinary Shares underlying the Shire American Depositary of the industrys branded prescription drug sales for the same period.
Shares the Shire ADSs, each representing three Shire Ordinary This guidance specifies that the liability for the fee should be estimated Shares, participated in the Scheme like all other Shire Ordinary Shares.
and recorded in full upon the first qualifying sale with a corresponding Upon the Scheme becoming effective, the Shire ADSs remained deferred cost that is amortized to expense using a straight-line method outstanding but became Shire plc ADSs, each representing three of allocation unless another method better allocates the fee over Shire plc Ordinary Shares.
The Scheme did not involve any payment the calendar year that it is payable.
The guidance is effective on a for the Shire plc ADSs.
prospective basis for calendar years beginning after December 31, 2010, when the fee initially becomes effective.
Shire does not currently The corporate restructuring has been accounted for as a expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material effect on its re-organization of entities under common control.
Accordingly, consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
the historical consolidated financial statements prior to the re-organization are labeled as those of Shire plc, but continue Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business to represent the operations of Old Shire.
Combinations In December 2010, the FASB issued guidance to clarify the acquisition Earnings per share were unaffected by the re-organization.
date that should be used for reporting pro-forma financial information disclosures in a business combination when comparative financial statements are presented.
The guidance specifies that the entity should disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period.
The guidance also improves the usefulness of the pro-forma revenue and earnings disclosures by requiring a description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro-forma adjustments that are directly attributable to the business combination.
The guidance is effective prospectively for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2010.
The Group has historically accounted for business combinations in accordance with the guidance, and therefore does not expect the adoption of guidance to impact its disclosure on business combinations.
Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 83 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 83 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The Group reviews its indefinite lived intangible assets principally relating to IPR&D assets for impairment annually, or more frequently The preparation of consolidated financial statements, in conformity if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might with US GAAP and SEC regulations, requires management to make be impaired.
Indefinite lived assets are reviewed for impairment using estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets a one-step approach, which compares the fair value of the indefinite and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date lived asset with its carrying amount.
An impairment loss is recognized of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results of the intangible asset.
could differ, potentially significantly, from amounts recorded based on the Groups estimates and assumptions.
Estimates and Events or circumstances that could suggest that the Groups assumptions are primarily made in relation to the valuation of intangible intangible assets may not be recoverable, and which would lead assets, the valuation of equity investments, sales deductions, income to an evaluation of the relevant asset for impairment, include but taxes, provisions for litigation and contingent consideration receivable are not limited to the following: from product divestments.
changes to a products commercialization strategy: i Valuation of intangible assetsthe loss of patent protection, regulatory exclusivity or challenge or circumvention by competitors of the Groups regulatory exclusivity a Estimation of intangible asset amortization charges and patents: impairment losses the development and marketing of competitive products, including At December 31, 2010 the carrying value of the Groups intangible generic entrants into the marketplace: assets was $1,978.9 million, primarily comprising the following currently marketed products or products under development: changes to the product labels, or other regulatory intervention: FIRAZYR $240.8 million, REPLAGAL $252.0 million, RESOLOR sustained government pressure on prices and, specifically, $434.8 million, and VYVANSE $878.8 million.
competitive pricing: The Groups intangible assets are comprised of: i finite lived intangiblethe occurrence of significant adverse events in respect to the assets which are amortized over their estimated useful life, principally Groups products: for currently marketed products with a defined revenue stream : and a significant deterioration in a products operating performance ii indefinite lived IPR&D assets which are either subject to amortization compared to expectations: following completion, or impairment on abandonment, of the relevant development project, IPR&D assets relate to development projectsan expectation that the intangible asset will be divested before acquired through business combinations which closed subsequent the end of its previously estimated useful life: and to January 1, 2009. adverse changes to the technological or commercial viability of development projects which the Groups IPR&D assets represent, Managements estimate of the useful life of its intangible assets which could include abandonment of the relevant project.
considers, inter alia, the following factors: the expected use of the asset by the Group: The occurrence of any such events or circumstance could adversely affect the Groups estimates of the future net cash flows generated any legal, regulatory, or contractual provisions that may limit by its intangible assets.
or extend the useful life: the effects of demand and competition, including the launch After the identification of such events, circumstances, and the of generic products: and resultant impairment reviews, the Group recognized intangible asset impairment losses of $42.7 million in the year to December 31, other general economic and or industry specific factors such 2010 which related to its DAYTRANA intangible asset as a result as the stability of the industry, known technological advances, of divestment to Noven 2009: $nil: 2008: $97.1 million, of which legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory $94.6 million related to DYNEPO which the Group stopped environment, and expected changes in distribution channels.
Dependent on future events or circumstances, the Groups operating results could be materially and adversely The Group reviews the useful life of its intangible assets subject to affected by future impairment losses relating to its intangible assets.
amortization at each reporting period, and revises its estimate of the useful life if warranted by events or circumstances.
Any future changes to the useful life of the Groups intangible assets could result in higher or lower amortization charges in future periods, which could materially affect the Groups operating results.
The Group reviews its finite lived intangible assets for impairment using a two-step approach, whenever events or circumstances suggest that their carrying value may not be recoverable.
Under step one, if the undiscounted cash flows resulting from the use and ultimate disposition of the finite lived intangible asset are less than its carrying value, the intangible asset is considered impaired.
The impairment loss is determined under step two as the amount by which the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 84 84 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES continued Prior to January 1, 2009 the fair value ascribed to such technologies or development projects was immediately expensed to the b Intangible assets acquired through business combinations consolidated statements of income in the year of acquisition.
The The fair values of all identifiable intangible assets for commercialized Group recorded IPR&D expense on the following significant business products acquired through business combinations primarily the combinations that closed prior to January 1, 2009: $128 million on acquisitions of TKT in 2005, New River in 2007, Jerini in 2008 and acquisition of Jerini in 2008, $1,866 million for New River in 2007 Movetis in 2010 have been determined using an income approach and $815 million for TKT in 2005.
In 2008 the Group also recorded on a project-by-project basis using the multi-period excess earnings IPR&D expense of $135 million following the asset acquisition method.
This method starts with a forecast of all expected future net of METAZYM from Zymenex.
Additionally, non-refundable fees paid cash flows which a market participant could have either generated on the in-licensing of products that have not yet received regulatory or saved as a result of ownership of the intellectual property, customer approval and have no alternative future use have been expensed relationships and other intangible assets.
These cash flows are then and presented within R&D.
adjusted to present value by applying a market participant discount rate that reflects the risk factors that a market participant would IPR&D for business combinations that closed subsequent to January 1, associate with the cash flows to the extent the underlying cash flows 2009 is recorded as an indefinite lived intangible asset.
The Group have not similarly been risk adjusted.
recorded indefinite lived IPR&D assets of $139 million on acquisition of Movetis in 2010, and $6 million on acquisition of EQUASYM from The forecast of future cash flows requires various assumptions to be UCB in 2009. made, including: The Group considers that a technology or development project has revenue that is reasonably likely to result from the sale of products an alternative future use if it is probable that the Group will use the including the estimated number of units to be sold, estimated selling asset in its current, incomplete state as it existed at the acquisition prices, estimated market penetration and estimated market share date, the asset will be used in another development project that has and year-over-year growth rates over the product lifecycles: not yet commenced, and future economic benefit is expected from royalty or license fees saved by owning the intellectual property that use.
The Group has determined that historically all such acquired associated with the products: development projects did not have an alternative future use.
cost of sales for the products using historical data, industry data The fair value of IPR&D assets is determined using the income or other sources of market data: approach on a project-by-project basis using the multi-period excess sales and marketing expense using historical data, industry data earnings method.
The fair value of the acquired IPR&D assets has been or other sources of market data: based on the present value of probability adjusted incremental cash flows which a market participant would expect to be generated by the general and administrative expenses: IPR&D projects after the deduction of contributory asset charges for R&D expenses: other assets employed in these projects.
This method incorporates an evaluation of the risks associated with the development project, which the estimated life of the products: and include applying an appropriate discount rate commensurate with the the tax amortization benefit available to a market participant projects stage of completion, the nature of the product, the scientific purchasing the relevant assets outside of a business combination.
data associated with the technology, the current patent situation and market competition.
The valuations are based on information at the time of the acquisition of the identifiable intangible assets, and the expectations and The forecast of future cash flows required the following assumptions assumptions that i have been deemed reasonable by the Groups to be made: management and ii are based on information, expectations and revenue that is likely to result from specific IPR&D projects, including assumptions that would be available to and made by a market the likelihood of approval of the product, estimated number of units participant.
No assurance can be given, however, that the underlying to be sold, estimated selling prices, estimated market penetration, assumptions or events associated with such assets will occur as estimated market share and year-over-year growth rates over the projected.
For these reasons, among others, the actual cash flows product lifecycles: may vary from forecasts of future cash flows, and dependent on the outcome of future events or circumstances impairment losses ascost of sales related to the potential products using historical data, outlined at a above may result.
industry data or other sources of market data: sales and marketing expense using historical data, industry data c IPR&D acquired through business combinations or other market data: IPR&D represents the fair value assigned to incomplete technologies and development projects that the Group has acquired throughgeneral and administrative expenses: business combinations or asset acquisitions, which at the date of the R&D expenses to complete the development of the acquired relevant acquisition have not reached technological feasibility or have products: and no alternative future use.
the tax amortization benefit available to a market participant purchasing the relevant assets outside of a business combination.
Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 85 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 85 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES continued In instances when this review indicates that there is an other-thantemporary impairment of the Groups investment in private companies, The major risks and uncertainties associated with the timely completion the Group records an other-than-temporary impairment loss to record of the acquired IPR&D projects consist of the ability to confirm the the investment at its then current fair value.
For the Groups safety and efficacy of the technology based on the data from ongoing investments in public companies which are accounted for as availableclinical trials, and obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals.
for-sale securities, if these investments are deemed to be other-thanThe use of different estimates and assumptions to those used by temporarily impaired, any unrealized holding loss is reclassified from the Group could result in a materially different valuation of IPR&D.
other comprehensive income by recording an other-than-temporary However, as the valuation process for IPR&D involves a number of impairment charge in the consolidated statements of income.
inter-relating assumptions, the Group does not consider it meaningful to quantify the sensitivity of the valuation of IPR&D to changes in any During 2010, 2009 and 2008 Shire did not record any impairment individual assumption.
charges for its non-current investments in private companies.
During the year to December 31, 2010, the Group recorded other-thanThe valuation of IPR&D has been based on information that existed temporary impairment charges of $1.5 million for its available-for-sale at the time of the acquisition of the relevant development project, and securities 2009: $0.8 million: 2008: $58.0 million.
At December 31, utilized expectations and assumptions that i have been deemed 2010 the Group has net unrealized holding gains of $0.3 million reasonable by Shires management, and ii are based on information, net of taxes on its available-for-sale securities and has one  and assumptions that would be available to and made for-sale security in an unrealized holding loss position $5.6 million by a market participant.
However, no assurance can be given that the at December 31, 2010. underlying assumptions or estimates associated with the valuation of IPR&D will occur as projected.
If certain of the IPR&D projects fail Other-than-temporary impairment charges of $58.0 million recorded during development, are abandoned, or do not receive the relevant in 2008 included $44.3 million for the Groups investment in Renovo regulatory approvals, the Group may not realize the future cash flows Group plc.
During the third quarter of 2008, the Group considered that it has estimated nor recover the value of the R&D investment the following factors in its determination of whether its impairment made subsequent to acquisition of the relevant project.
If such in Renovo Group plc was temporary or other-than-temporary: circumstances occur, the Groups future operating results could be the severity of the decline from historical cost 87% decline and its materially adversely impacted.
duration eleven months : market analysts targets of Renovo Group plcs share price for the next 1824 months: and the revised expected ii Valuation of equity investments filing date for JUVISTA due to the adoption of a sequential rather than At December 31, 2010 the carrying value of the Groups investments parallel Phase 3 development plan.
These factors, together with the in certain public and private pharmaceutical and biotechnology significant decline in global equity markets during the third quarter companies amounted to $101.6 million, principally represented by of 2008 meant that the Group was unable to reasonably estimate the Groups available-for-sale investment in Vertex.
The carrying the period over which a full recovery in the value of its investment values of these investments are periodically reviewed for otherin Renovo Group plc could occur.
As such, at the end of the third than-temporary impairment, at least quarterly or more frequently quarter of 2008 the Group concluded that the decline in value was if certain events or circumstances suggest that the carrying value other-than-temporary.
of an investment exceeds its fair value.
The determination of the fair value of private company investments Indicators of other-than-temporary impairment which are considered and the determination of whether an unrealized holding loss on a by the Group, include: publicly quoted investment is other-than-temporary requires significant management judgement.
Any future events or circumstances which the market value of a quoted investment being below the cost could lead to the recognition of other-than-temporary impairment of the investment: charges, particularly in respect of the Groups investment in Vertex adverse news on a companys progress in scientific carrying value at December 31, 2010 $68.4 million, could have technology development of compounds: and a material adverse impact on the Groups financial condition and results of operations.
recent stock issuances at a price below the investment price.
iii Sales deductions If the fair value appears to be below the investments cost the Group Sales deductions consist of statutory rebates to state Medicaid considers all available evidence in assessing whether there is an and other government agencies, contractual rebates with  impairment.
This evidence would include, but maintenance organizations HMOs, product returns, sales discounts is not limited to: including trade discounts and distribution service fees, wholesaler the length of time and or the extent to which the market value chargebacks, and allowances for coupon sampling programs.
These of the investee is less than the cost of the investment: deductions are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales with estimates of future utilization derived from the level of progress in the investees scientific technology historical experience adjusted to reflect known changes in the factors development of compounds: that impact such reserves.
On the balance sheet the Group records ongoing activity in collaborations with the investee: wholesaler chargebacks and prompt payment discounts as a reserve against accounts receivable, whereas all other sales deductions are whether or not other substantial investee-specific adverse events recorded within current liabilities.
have occurred which may cause a decline in value: analysis and valuation of comparable companies: and the overall financial condition and near term prospects of the investee, including its ability to obtain financing to progress development of its compounds.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 86 86 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES continued Shire believes that its interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation is reasonable and correct.
In addition, the 2010 Affordable Care Act The Group has the following significant categories of sales deductions, contained a provision, effective as of October 1, 2010, that provided all of which involve estimates and judgements which the Group further clarity, in a manner consistent with the Groups interpretation, considers to be critical accounting estimates, and require the Group as to how shipments of authorized generics should be included to use information from external sources: in Medicaid rebate calculations from October 1, 2010 forward.
CMS has explicitly referred manufacturers with authorized generics to this Medicaid and Managed Care Rebates new provision in making their branded rebate calculations, further Statutory rebates to state Medicaid agencies and contractual rebates supporting the Groups interpretation.
However, CMS could disagree to Managed Care Organizations MCO under managed care programs with the Groups interpretation, require Shire to apply an alternative are based on statutory or negotiated discounts to the selling price.
interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation for the period prior to Medicaid rebates generally increase as a percentage of the selling price October 1, 2010 and pay up to $210 million above the recorded liability.
over the life of the product if prices increase faster than inflation.
For 2009 rebates this would represent a URA substantially in excess of the unit sales price of ADDERALL XR and accordingly in excess of As it can take up to six months for information to reach the Group on the approximate amount of the full cost to the States of reimbursement actual usage of the Groups products in managed care and Medicaid for Medicaid prescriptions of ADDERALL XR.
For rebates in respect programs and on the total rebates to be reimbursed, the Group of 2010 prescriptions, as a result of provisions in the 2010 Affordable maintains reserves for amounts payable under these programs relating Care Act, the URA would be limited to an amount approximating the to sold products.
unit sales price of ADDERALL XR.
The amount of the reserve is based on historical experience of rebates, Should CMS require Shire to apply an alternative interpretation of the the timing of payments, the level of reimbursement claims, changes Medicaid rebate legislation for the period prior to October 1, 2010, Shire in prices both normal selling prices and statutory or negotiated prices, could seek to limit any additional payments for 2009 rebates to a level changes in prescription demand patterns, projected product returns approximating the full, un-rebated cost to the States of ADDERALL XR, and the levels of inventory in the distribution channel.
Adjustments or $130 million above the recorded liability.
Further, Shire believes it has are made for known changes in these factors, such as how shipments a strong legal basis supporting its interpretation of the Medicaid rebate of authorized generic ADDERALL XR to Teva and Impax should legislation, and that there would be a strong basis to initiate litigation be included in the Medicaid rebate calculation pursuant to Medicaid to recover any amount paid in excess of the recorded liability.
of any such litigation cannot be predicted and could result in additional rebate liability above Shires current best estimate.
Shires estimates of the level of inventory in the distribution channel are based on product-by-product inventory data provided by wholesalers: Any future change in the Groups best estimate of the ADDERALL XR results of independently commissioned retail inventory surveys and Medicaid rebate liability for the period prior to October 1, 2010 could third-party prescription data such as IMS Health National Prescription significantly decrease reported ADDERALL XR net product sales Audit data.
and impact the Groups financial condition and results of operations in the period in which any such change of estimate were to occur.
Revisions or clarification of guidelines from the CMS related to state Medicaid and other government program reimbursement practices Aggregate accruals for Medicaid and MCO rebates at December 31, with retroactive application can result in changes to managements 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $549.9 million, $341.6 million and estimates of the rebates reported in prior periods.
$222.5 million respectively, or 18%, 13% and 8% of net product sales.
Historically, actual rebates have not varied significantly from the The accrual estimation process for Medicaid and Managed Care rebates reserves provided.
involves in each case a number of interrelating assumptions, which vary for each combination of product and Medicaid agency or MCO.
Product returns Accordingly it would not be meaningful to quantify the sensitivity to The Group typically accepts customer product returns in the following change for any individual assumption or uncertainty.
However, with the circumstances: a expiration of shelf life: b product damaged while exception of the estimation of the Medicaid URA for ADDERALL XR for in the possession of Shire: c under sales terms that allow for the period prior to October 1, 2010 see below, Shire does not believe unconditional return guaranteed sales : or d following product recalls that the effect of these uncertainties, taken as a whole, significantly or product withdrawals.
Returns are generally accepted up to one impacts the Groups financial condition or results of operations.
year after expiration date of the relevant product.
The Group typically refunds the agreed proportion of the sales price by the issuance There are potentially different interpretations as to how shipments of a credit, rather than cash refund or exchanges from inventory, of authorized generic ADDERALL XR to Teva and Impax should and the returned product is destroyed.
be included in the Medicaid rebate calculation pursuant to Medicaid rebate legislation.
As a result, more than one URA is calculable for Shire estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that will result the purposes of determining the Groups Medicaid rebate liability to the in a return by considering relevant factors, including: States after authorized generic launch.
In the years to December 31, past product returns activity: 2010 and 2009 the Group has recorded its accrual for ADDERALL XR Medicaid rebates based on its best estimate of the rebate payable.
the duration of time taken for products to be returned: This best estimate is consistent with i the Groups interpretation the estimated level of inventory in the distribution channel: of the Medicaid rebate legislation as amended in 2010 by the relevant provisions of the 2010 Affordable Care Act, ii the Groups repeatedproduct recalls and discontinuances: and consistent submission of price reporting to the CMS using the shelf life of products: the Groups interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation, iii CMS calculating the URA based on that interpretation, the launch of new drugs or new formulations: and iv States submitting Medicaid rebate invoices using this URA, and the loss of patent protection or new competition.
Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 87 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 87 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES continued Any outcome upon settlement that differs from the recorded provision for uncertain tax positions may result in a materially higher or lower Shires estimate of the level of inventory in the distribution channel is tax expense in future periods, which could significantly impact the based on product-by-product inventory data provided by wholesalers, Groups results of operations or financial condition.
However, we do third-party prescription data and, for some product return provisions, not believe it possible to reasonably estimate the potential impact market research of retail pharmacies.
of any such change in assumptions, estimates or judgements and the resultant change, if any, in the Groups provision for uncertain tax Returns reserves for new products generally require a higher level positions, as any such change is dependent on factors such as future of estimation than estimates for established products.
For shipments changes in tax law or administrative practice, the amount and nature made to support the commercial launch of a new product which can of additional taxes which may be asserted by the taxation authorities, include guaranteed sales the Groups policy is to defer recognition and the willingness of the relevant tax authorities to negotiate a of the sales revenue until there is evidence of end-patient acceptance settlement to any such position.
of the new product primarily through third-party prescription data.
For shipments after launch under standard terms i. e. not guaranteed At December 31, 2010 the Group recognized a liability of $290.8 million sales, the Groups initial estimates of sales return accruals are primarily for total unrecognized tax benefits 2009: $254.0 million and had based on the historical sales returns experience of similar products accrued $110.5 million 2009: $111.5 million for the payment of interest shortly after launch.
Once sufficient historical data on actual returns and penalties.
The Group is required in certain tax jurisdictions to make of the product are available, the returns provision is based on this data advance deposits to tax authorities on receipt of a tax assessment.
and any other relevant factors as noted above.
These payments are offset against the income tax liability but do not reduce the provision for unrecognized tax benefits.
The accrual estimation process for product returns involves in each case a number of interrelating assumptions, which vary for each The Group has significant deferred tax assets due to various tax combination of product and customer.
Accordingly, it would not be attributes including, net operating losses NOLs, tax credits from meaningful to quantify the sensitivity to change for any individual Research and Development, Investment Tax Credits and Alternative assumption or uncertainty.
However, Shire does not believe that the Minimum Tax principally in the Republic of Ireland, the US, Belgium, effect of uncertainties, as a whole, significantly impacts the Groups Germany and the UK.
The realization of these assets is not assured financial condition or results of operations.
and is dependent on the generation of sufficient taxable income in future periods.
Management is required to exercise judgement in At December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, provisions for product returns determining whether it is more likely than not that it would realize these were $69.8 million, $62.7 million and $47.1 million or 2%, 2% and 2% deferred tax assets, based upon estimates of future taxable income respectively, of net product sales.
Historically, actual returns have not and the availability of prudent and feasible tax-planning strategies varied significantly from the reserves provided.
in the various jurisdictions in which these NOLs and other tax attributes exist.
Where there is an expectation that on the balance of probabilities iv Income taxes there will not be sufficient taxable profits to utilize these tax attributes In accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, management is a valuation allowance is held against these deferred tax assets.
If actual required to develop estimates as to whether a tax benefit should be events differ from managements estimates, or to the extent that these recognized in the consolidated financial statements, based on whether estimates are adjusted in the future, any changes to the valuation it is more likely than not that the technical merits of the position will allowance could significantly impact the Groups financial condition be sustained based on audit by the tax authorities.
The measurement and results of operations.
of the tax benefit recognized in the consolidated financial statements is based upon the largest amount of tax benefit that, in managements At December 31, 2010 the Group had deferred tax liabilities of judgement, is greater than 50% likely to be realized based on $433 million and gross deferred tax assets of $569 million, against which the Group had recorded valuation allowances of $200 million.
a cumulative probability assessment of the possible outcomes.
In accounting for income tax uncertainties, management is required At December 31, 2009 the Group had deferred tax liabilities of to make judgements in the determination of the unit of account, the evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information in respect $448 million and gross deferred tax assets of $515 million, against which the Group had recorded valuation allowances of $149 million.
of the tax position taken, together with the estimates of amounts that the Group may be required to pay in ultimate settlement with At December 31, 2008 the Group had deferred tax liabilities of the tax authority.
$504 million and gross deferred tax assets of $472 million, against which the Group had recorded valuation allowances of $119 million.
Shire operates in numerous countries where its income tax returns are subject to audit and adjustment by local tax authorities.
As Shire operates globally, the nature of the uncertain tax positions is often very complex and subject to change and the amounts at issue can be substantial.
Shire develops its cumulative probability assessment to measure uncertain tax positions using internal expertise, experience and judgement, together with the assistance from professional advisors.
Original estimates are refined as additional information becomes known.
For example, in the year to December 31, 2010 the Group recognized additional provisions in relation to ongoing compliance management for prior years totaling $30.4 million.
These increases were partially offset by $11.4 million primarily following conclusion of ongoing audits.
In the year to December 31, 2009 the Group recognized additional interest expense of $21.3 million on its provision for uncertain tax positions following the receipt of new information on the amount of interest that may be payable upon settlement of the relevant tax position.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 88 88 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES continued vi Contingent consideration receivable from product divestments Consideration receivable by the Group on the divestment of product v Litigation and legal proceedings rights typically includes up-front receipts and or milestones and The Group has a number of lawsuits pending that relate to intellectual royalties which are contingent on the outcome of future events, property infringement claims, and in September 2009 the Group for example based upon the future sales performance of the divested received a subpoena from the US Department of Health and Human product.
Contingent consideration occasionally represents a significant Services Office of the Inspector General seeking production of proportion of the economic value receivable by the Group for a documents related to the sales and marketing of ADDERALL XR, divested product: in these situations the Group initially recognizes this DAYTRANA and VYVANSE, See Note 20 Commitments and contingent consideration as an asset at its divestment date fair value, contingencies to the consolidated financial statements for further with re-measurement of this asset to its then current fair value at details.
Shire records a loss contingency provision for probable losses subsequent balance sheet dates.
when management is able to reasonably estimate the loss.
Where the estimated loss lies within a range, management records a loss At December 31, 2010 the Group has contingent consideration assets contingency provision based on its best estimate of the probable loss.
of $61.0 million 2009: $nil, related to the divestment of DAYTRANA Where no particular amount within that range is a better estimate than to Noven in October 2010.
Estimation of the fair value of this contingent any other amount, the minimum amount is recorded.
These estimates consideration asset relies predominantly upon unobservable, Level 3 are often developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, inputs including: future sales of the divested product with estimates so estimates are refined each accounting period, as additional of future anticipated pricing, market share and market growth : information becomes known.
Best estimates are reviewed quarterly relevant contractual royalty rates: an appropriate discount rate: and estimates are changed when expectations are revised.
Any and assumed weightings applied to potential scenarios in deriving outcome upon settlement that deviates from Shires best estimate may a probability weighted fair value.
Significant judgement is employed result in an additional or lesser expense in a future accounting period, by the Group in developing these estimates and assumptions, both which could materially impact the Groups financial condition and at the date of divestment and in subsequent periods.
If actual events results of operations.
differ from managements estimates, or to the extent that these estimates are adjusted in the future, the Groups financial condition On November 5, 2008 the Group announced that it had successfully and results of operations could be affected in the period of any such settled all aspects of the TKT appraisal rights litigation with all parties.
Shire paid the same price of $37 per share originally offered to all TKT shareholders at the time of the July 2005 merger, plus interest.
The settlement represents a total payment of $567.5 million, representing 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS consideration at $37 per share of $419.9 million and an interest cost of $147.6 million.
Prior to reaching this settlement, the Group accrued Acquisition of Movetis interest based on a reasonable estimate of the amount that may be On September 6, 2010 the Group launched a voluntary public takeover awarded by the Court to those former TKT shareholders who requested offer for all the shares and warrants in Movetis, a Belgium-based appraisal.
This estimate of interest was based on Shires cost of specialty GI company, at a price of 19 per share in cash.
Between the close of the merger and November 5, 2008 the Group applied this interest rate on a quarterly compounding basis to the On October 12, 2010 the Groups wholly owned subsidiary, Shire $419.9 million of consideration to calculate its provision for interest.
Holdings Luxembourg S. a. r. l. acquired 99.21% of the shares of Movetis as a result of the successful tender offer.
By November 8, 2010, following Upon reaching agreement in principle with all the dissenting a statutory squeeze-out of the remaining shares and warrants not shareholders, the Group determined that settlement had become the tendered in the offer, the Group had acquired 100% of the shares and probable manner through which the appraisal rights litigation would warrants in Movetis for a total cash consideration of $592.0 million.
Under current law, although not applicable in this case acquisition of Movetis was funded from Shires existing cash resources.
because the merger was entered into before the relevant amendment to the law became effective the court presumptively awards interest The acquisition significantly broadens Shires global GI portfolio in appraisal rights cases at a statutory rate that is 5 percentage points and adds growing revenues from RESOLOR, a new chemical entity above the Federal Reserve discount rate as it varies over the duration indicated for the symptomatic treatment of chronic constipation of the case.
In connection with the settlement, the Group agreed to in women in whom laxatives fail to provide adequate relief.
Movetis an interest rate that approximates to this statutory rate.
Based on the has the rights to RESOLOR in the European Union EU, Iceland, settlement, the Group amended the method of determining its interest Lichtenstein, Norway and Switzerland the Movetis Territory and provision to reflect this revised manner of resolution, and recorded is entitled to royalties on sales of RESOLOR outside of Europe from additional interest expense of $73.0 million in its consolidated financial Johnson & Johnson J&J.
The acquisition also brought to Shire statements for the year to December 31, 2008 on reaching settlement world-class R&D talent and a promising GI pipeline.
Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 89 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 89 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued The acquisition of Movetis has been accounted for as a purchase business combination.
The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from Movetis have been recorded at their fair value at October 12, 2010, being the date of acquisition.
The Groups consolidated financial statements and results of operations include the results of Movetis from October 12, 2010.
The Groups allocation of the purchase price to the Movetis assets acquired and liabilities assumed is outlined below: Fair value $M Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 109.0 Short-term investments 7.0 Other current assets 8.6 Total current assets 124.6 Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment 1.1 Goodwill 27.9 Other intangible assets: currently marketed product 317.0 IPR&D 139.0 other intangible assets 14.0 Other non-current assets 0.8 Deferred tax asset 40.4 Total assets 664.8 LIABILITIES Current liabilities: Accounts payable and other current liabilities 19.0 Non-current liabilities: Deferred tax liabilities 53.8 Total liabilities 72.8 Fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 592.0 Consideration Cash consideration paid 592.0 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 90 90 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued Acquisition of EQUASYM IR and XL On March 31, 2009 the Group acquired the worldwide rights a Other intangible assetscurrently marketed product excluding the US, Canada and Barbados to EQUASYM IR and XL Other intangible assets include $317.0 million relating to intellectual for the treatment of ADHD from UCB Pharma Limited UCB for cash property rights in the Movetis Territory for Movetis currently marketed consideration of $72.8 million.
Included in the recognized purchase product, RESOLOR, for the treatment of chronic constipation in price for the acquisition is further consideration of $18.2 million, of women in whom laxatives fail to provide adequate relief.
The fair value which $12.0 million was paid to UCB in the year to December 31, 2010 of RESOLOR for the treatment of chronic constipation in women in and the remaining $6.2 million may become payable in 2011 if certain the Movetis Territory has been estimated using an income approach, sales targets are met.
This acquisition broadened the scope of Shires based on the present value of incremental after-tax cash flows ADHD portfolio and facilitated immediate access to the European attributable to the asset after deduction of contributory asset charges.
ADHD market as well as providing Shire the opportunity to enter additional markets around the world.
The estimated useful life of the RESOLOR currently marketed product intangible asset is 14 years, with amortization being recorded on a The acquisition of EQUASYM IR and XL was accounted for as straight-line basis.
The purchase price was allocated to the currently marketed products $73.0 million, IPR&D $5.5 million, b Other intangible assetsIPR&D other liabilities $0.7 million and goodwill $13.2 million.
IPR&D relates to development projects acquired with Movetis, that have been initiated and have achieved material progress and whose Acquisition of Jerini fair value is estimable with reasonable certainty but i have not yet On July 3, 2008 the Group announced that it was launching a reached technological feasibility or have not yet received the relevant voluntary public takeover offer for all outstanding shares in Jerini, regulatory approval and ii have no alternative future use.
a German corporation, at a price of 6.25 per share.
By August 6, 2008 the Group had acquired 80.1% of the voting interests in Jerini IPR&D principally relates to RESOLOR for the treatment of chronic for a cash consideration of $456.3 million.
In the year to December 31, constipation in men $93 million and children $42 million in the 2008 the Group acquired 98.6% of the voting interests in Jerini for Movetis Territory.
The fair value of these IPR&D assets have been a cash consideration of $556.5 million, represented by Jerini shares, estimated based on an income approach, using the present value $539.8 million, the cash cost of cancelling Jerini stock options of incremental after-tax cash flows expected to be generated by these $9.4 million and direct costs of acquisition $7.3 million.
In the year development projects after the deduction of contributory asset charges to December 31, 2009 the Group acquired the rights to the remaining for other assets employed in these projects.
The estimated cash flows 1.4% of the voting interests in Jerini for additional cash consideration have been probability adjusted to take into account their stage of of $10.5 million including direct acquisition costs, such that the completion and the remaining risks and uncertainties surrounding their Group owned 100% of Jerini.
The acquisition added Jerinis hereditary future development and commercialization.
The estimated, probability angioedema HAE product FIRAZYR to the Groups portfolio.
adjusted after-tax cash flows have been discounted at rates between 1214% to determine a present, or fair, value.
The acquisition of Jerini has been accounted for as a purchase business combination.
The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from The major risks and uncertainties associated with the timely completion Jerini have been recorded at the date of acquisition at their fair value.
of the acquired IPR&D projects consist of the ability to confirm the Consolidated financial statements and reported results of operations efficacy of the technology based on the data from clinical trials, and of the Group issued after the acquisition of a majority holding reflect obtaining the relevant regulatory approvals.
The valuation of IPR&D these values, with the results of Jerini included from August 1, 2008, has been based on information available at the time of the acquisition for convenience purposes, in the consolidated statements of income.
and on expectations and assumptions that i have been deemed Between acquiring the Groups controlling voting interest in early August reasonable by the Groups management and ii are based on 2008 and December 31, 2009, the Group acquired the remaining voting information, expectations and assumptions that would be available interests totaling 19.9% of Jerinis issued share capital.
The additional to a market participant.
However, no assurance can be given that the voting interests have been accounted for as step-acquisitions using the assumptions and events associated with such assets will occur as purchase method of accounting.
For these reasons, the actual cash flows may vary from forecast future cash flows.
c Goodwill Goodwill arising of $27.9 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes, has been assigned to the Specialty Pharmaceuticals operating segment.
In the year to December 31, 2010 the Group expensed transaction costs of $6.9 million relating to the Movetis acquisition, which have been recorded within Integration and acquisition costs in the Groups consolidated statements of income.
The amounts of Movetiss revenue and losses included in the Groups consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2010 are $0.3 million of revenues and $17.5 million of pre-tax losses.
Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 91 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 91 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued The final fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed were determined in July 2009, and the adjustment in the second quarter of 2009 to recognize assumed liabilities is detailed in section c below.
The following table presents the Groups preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their fair values based on the Groups 80.1% voting interest acquired by August 6, 2008: Fair value $M ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 56.7 Restricted cash 0.4 Inventories 1.9 Assets held-for-sale 24.4 Other current assets 4.9 Total current assets 88.3 Property, plant and equipment 3.6 Goodwill 121.0 Other intangible assets: currently marketed product 257.6 in-process R&D 104.1 Deferred tax asset 0.5 Total assets 575.1 LIABILITIES Current liabilities: 31.3 Deferred tax liability 76.3 Other long-term liabilities 0.8 Total liabilities 108.4 Estimated fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 466.7 Noncontrolling interest 10.4 Cost of 80.1% voting interest acquired 456.3 a Other intangible assetscurrently marketed product b Other intangible assetsIPR&D Other intangible assets include $320.2 million being $257.6 million The IPR&D assets of $129.7 million being $104.1 million acquired acquired as at August 6, 2008 and $62.6 million in the subsequent as at August 6, 2008 and $25.6 million in the subsequent step step acquisitions relating to intellectual property rights in respect of acquisitions relate to FIRAZYR for the treatment of acute HAE in the Jerinis currently marketed product, FIRAZYR, which received US $64.9 million, and the rest of the world excluding the US and EU marketing authorization from the European Commission in July 2008 $64.8 million.
These IPR&D assets have not received approval from for the treatment of acute HAE in the EU.
These intellectual property the relevant regulatory authorities at the acquisition date.
In the US rights include the right to develop, use, market, sell and or offer for FIRAZYR received a not approvable letter from the FDA in April 2008. sale the technical processes, intellectual property and institutional The Group considers that these IPR&D assets have no alternative understanding including the way in which FIRAZYR reacts in body, future use outside of their current development projects and the fair an understanding of the mechanisms of action which allow FIRAZYR value of these IPR&D assets has therefore been charged to the to work and the knowledge related to the associated clinical and consolidated statements of income in accordance with the US GAAP marketing studies performed to obtain approval of FIRAZYR.
The fair for business combinations which completed prior to January 1, 2009. value of FIRAZYR in the EU has been determined using an income approach applying the multi-period excess earnings method, based The fair value of the FIRAZYR IPR&D assets was determined using the on the present value of incremental after-tax cash flows attributable income approach applying the multi-period excess earnings method.
to the asset after the deduction of contributory asset charges for the The fair value of the IPR&D assets has been based on the incremental assets employed including working capital, the assembled workforce cash flows expected to be generated by the development projects and other fixed assets.
after the deduction of contributory asset charges in respect of other assets employed in these research projects including working capital, This intangible asset has an estimated useful life of 17 years, will be the assembled workforce and other fixed assets.
These estimated amortized on a straight-line basis, and has been allocated to the HGT future cash flows were then probability adjusted to take into account reporting segment.
the stage of completion and the remaining risks and uncertainties surrounding the future development and commercialization of FIRAZYR.
These estimated probability adjusted, after-tax cash flows were then discounted at 1718% to determine a present, or fair, value.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 92 92 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued In May 2009 JPT was divested for cash consideration of $6.7 million, resulting in a loss on disposal of $0.5 million.
The major risks and uncertainties associated with the timely completion of the acquired IPR&D projects consist of the ability to confirm the For the years to December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 the Group has efficacy of the technology based on data from the clinical trials, and presented JOI and JPT as discontinued operations, recording revenues obtaining the relevant regulatory approvals.
The valuations have been and the pre-tax loss from these businesses within discontinued based on information at the time of the acquisition and expectations operations for the year to December 31, 2010 of $nil and $nil 2009: and assumptions that i have been deemed reasonable by the Groups $2.3 million and $12.4 million: 2008: $3.6 million and $17.6 million management, and ii are based on information, expectations and respectively.
The loss from discontinued operations for the year to assumptions that would be available to and be made by a market December 31, 2009 includes loss on disposal of JPT of $0.5 million, participant.
However, no assurance can be given that the underlying and charges of $5.9 million relating to re-measurement of JOI assets assumptions or events associated with such assets will occur as to fair value, as a result of the closure, rather than divestment, of JOI.
For these reasons, among others, the actual cash flows The loss from discontinued operations in the year to December 31, may vary from forecast future cash flows.
2008 also includes a charge of $12.9 million arising on the remeasurement of assets held-for-sale to their fair value less costs c Goodwill to sell at December 31, 2008.
Goodwill of $152.8 million being $121.0 million acquired as at August 6, 2008 and $31.8 million in the subsequent step acquisitions has Further, in 2009, the Group adjusted the preliminary purchase price been wholly allocated to the HGT operating segment and is not allocation to recognize assumed liabilities for onerous contract costs deductible for tax purposes.
and employee involuntary termination costs incurred on closure of JOI and the pre-clinical projects totaling $9.1 million see Note 7.
These d Assets held-for-sale adjustments were recognized as an increase in acquired goodwill.
On acquisition of Jerini the Group and Jerini commenced a strategic review of the acquired assets to identify which of the assets were METAZYM acquisition non-core to the newly combined business.
In October 2008 Jerini On June 4, 2008 Shire completed the asset acquisition of the global announced that its Supervisory and Management Boards had rights to METAZYM from Zymenex A S Zymenex for $135.0 million concluded that it was in the best interests of Jerini to divest Jerini in cash, and recognized an IPR&D charge of $135.0 million during Ophthalmic, Inc. JOI, Jerini Peptide Technologies GmbH JPT and 2008 for the acquired development project.
The Group presented the fair value less costs to sell of JOI and JPT as assets held-for-sale at the acquisition date.
These held-for-sale assets were recorded at their aggregate fair value less costs to sell of $27.8 million within the purchase price allocation, the carrying value being primarily represented by the fair value of IPR&D.
Supplemental disclosure of pro-forma information The following unaudited pro-forma financial information presents the combined results of the operations of Shire, Movetis and Jerini as if the acquisition of Movetis, which occurred during 2010 had occurred at January 1, 2009 and the acquisition of Jerini, which occurred during 2008 had occurred at January 1, 2007 based upon Shires ownership interest of 100% and 98.6% of Movetis and Jerini respectively.
The unaudited proforma financial information is not necessarily indicative of what the consolidated results of operations actually would have been had the acquisition been completed at the dates indicated.
In addition, the unaudited pro-forma financial information does not purport to project the future results of operations of the combined Group.
2010 2009 2008 $M $M $M Revenues 3,472.2 3,007.7 3,031.6 Net income from continuing operations 524.8 453.0 114.7 Net income attributable to Shire plc 524.8 440.6 97.1 Per share amounts: Net income from continuing operations per sharebasic 96.1 83.8 21.2 Net income per Ordinary Share attributable to Shire plcbasic 96.1 81.5 18.0 Net income from continuing operations per sharediluted 94.2 82.7 21.0 Net income per Ordinary Share attributable to Shire plcdiluted 94.2 80.4 17.8 Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 93 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 93 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued On February 24, 2009 Shire and Duramed amended this agreement such that it terminated on December 31, 2009.
Pursuant to this The unaudited pro-forma financial information above reflects the amendment, Shire agreed to return to Duramed its rights under the following pro-forma adjustments: agreement effective February 24, 2009.
Shire also agreed to reimburse Duramed for incurred US development expenditures in 2009 up Movetis to a maximum of $30.0 million.
Shire has no rights with respect to i an adjustment to decrease interest income increase interest the products on which such development expenditures are incurred.
expense by $2.7 million and $3.6 million in the year to December In addition, Shire agreed to a one-time payment to Duramed of 31, 2010 and 2009 respectively, to reflect the interest foregone $10.0 million, which was paid during the first quarter of 2009, and on the Groups cash resources used to fund the acquisition to forego royalties receivable from Barr Laboratories, Inc. Barr of Movetis: and a subsidiary of Teva and cost of goods otherwise payable by Barr to Shire in 2009 under the License Agreement between the parties ii an adjustment to increase amortization expense by approximately for the supply of authorized generic ADDERALL XR, up to a maximum $17.7 million and $23.6 million for the years to December 31, 2010 of $25.0 million.
During the year to December 31, 2009 the Group and 2009 respectively, to reflect amortization of intangible assets recorded a charge of $62.9 million to research and development, within relating to the currently marketed product, over the estimated the Specialty Pharmaceuticals segment, to reflect the cash payment useful life of 14 years.
made in the first quarter of 2009 and other termination related costs.
iii in the year to December 31, 2010 the calculation of pro-forma diluted earnings per share does not include the effect of the A reconciliation of the contract termination liability is presented below: Companys convertible bond as it would be anti-dilutive on a Opening Closing pro-forma basis.
liability at liability at January 1, Amount December 31, Jerini 2010 paid 2010 i an adjustment to decrease interest income by $9.1 million in the $M $M $M year to December 31, 2008 to reflect the interest foregone on the Contract termination costs 10.0 10.0 Groups cash resources used to fund the acquisition of a majority voting interest in Jerini: and 6 DIVESTMENT OF PRODUCT RIGHTS ii an adjustment to increase amortization expense by approximately $12.1 million for the year to December 31, 2008 to reflect During 2007 and 2008 the Group streamlined its operations through amortization of intangible assets relating to the currently marketed product, over the estimated useful life of 17 years.
the divestment of certain non-core products.
In 2007 the Group received cash consideration of $234.4 million on the disposal of The unaudited pro-forma financial information for the year to December non-core products, which included $209.6 million from Laboratorios Almirall S. A Almirall on the transfer of product licenses, including 31, 2008 does not include the IPR&D charge of $128.1 million in respect of FIRAZYR outside of the EU because the IPR&D charge SOLARAZE and VANIQA, and in 2008 Shire received a further $5.0 million in cash for the transfer of other non-core product rights.
The Group recognizes gains in respect of these divested product rights when the relevant regulatory or other consents for the transfer 5 TERMINATION OF DURAMED PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. of these product rights are obtained.
DURAMED COLLABORATION AGREEMENT On October 1, 2010 the Group completed the divestment of DAYTRANA to Noven Pharmaceutical Inc. Noven Noven developed In August 2006, Shire and Duramed, a subsidiary of Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd, Teva entered into an agreement and manufactures DAYTRANA, and Shire licensed DAYTRANA from Noven in 2003.
No consideration was received at the time related to SEASONIQUE, a number of products using Durameds transvaginal ring technology and other oral products the Collaboration of divestment, however future consideration is receivable from Noven dependent on DAYTRANAs future performance.
Under this agreement, Shire was required to reimburse Duramed for US development expenses incurred on Collaboration recorded the fair value of contingent consideration receivable from Noven within current and non-current assets.
During the fourth quarter Products up to a maximum of $140 million over eight years from September 2006, and Shire had the right to commercialize these of 2010 the Group recognized a gain of $10.4 million due to changes in the fair value of this contingent consideration.
At December 31, 2010 products in a number of markets outside of North America, including the larger European markets.
the Group has recorded receivables and the fair value of future contingent consideration totaling $65.3 million, split between current assets $21.6 million and non-current assets $43.7 million.
Accordingly Shire recognized gains of $16.5 million, $6.3 million and $20.7 million in the years to December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively on disposal of product rights.
All assets disposed of during 2010, 2009 and 2008 formed part of the Specialty Pharmaceuticals segment.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 94 94 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 7 RE-ORGANIZATION COSTS re-organization costs of $13.0 million which relate to employee involuntary termination benefits and other costs.
The total reEstablishment of an International Commercial Hub in Switzerland organization costs incurred since March 2009 are $25.7 million.
In March 2010 the Group initiated plans to relocate certain commercial and R&D operations to Switzerland to support its HGT and Specialty As a result of the decision to transfer manufacturing from the Owings Pharmaceuticals businesses outside the US.
In the year to December Mills site the Group revised the useful life of property, plant and 31, 2010, the Group incurred re-organization costs totaling $21.3 million equipment in the facility and in the year to December 31, 2010 incurred relating to employee involuntary termination benefits and other accelerated depreciation of $25.7 million, which has been charged re-organization costs.
The transition to the international commercial to Cost of product sales.
The re-organization costs and accelerated hub in Switzerland will be effected over 2010 and 2011.
The Group depreciation have been recorded within the Specialty Pharmaceuticals estimates that further costs of approximately $9 million to $17 million operating segment.
Jerini non-core operations Owings Mills In the second quarter of 2009 the operations of JOI, and certain other In March 2009 the Group initiated plans to phase out operations and non-core pre-clinical operations acquired through the acquisition of close its Specialty Pharmaceuticals manufacturing facility at Owings Jerini were closed down, and the Group recorded a closure costs Mills, Maryland.
Between 2009 and 2011, all products manufactured liability of $9.1 million, relating to employee involuntary termination by Shire at this site will transition to DSM Pharmaceutical Products, benefits, contract termination costs and other closure costs.
The Group and operations and employee numbers at the site will wind down paid all remaining closure costs during the year to December 31, 2010 over this period.
In the year to December 31, 2010 the Group incurred and no liability for these closure costs remains at December 31, 2010.
The liability for re-organization costs arising on the establishment of the international commercial hub in Switzerland and transfer of manufacturing from Owings Mills at December 31, 2010 is as follows: Opening Closing liability at Amount liability at January 1, charged to December 31, 2010 re-organization Paid utilized 2010 $M $M $M $M Involuntary termination benefits 4.1 11.8 5.8 10.1 Contract termination costs 2.8 2.8 Other re-organization costs 22.5 20.2 2.3 6.9 34.3 28.8 12.4 At December 31, 2010 the closing re-organization cost liability was recorded within accounts payable and accrued expenses $10.9 million and other non-current liabilities $1.5 million.
8 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, NET Accounts receivable at December 31, 2010 of $692.5 million December 31, 2009: $597.5 million, are stated net of a provision for discounts and doubtful accounts of $23.4 million December 31, 2009: $20.8 million, December 31, 2008: $20.2 million.
Provision for discounts and doubtful accounts: 2010 2009 2008 $M $M $M As at January 1, 20.8 20.2 9.8 Provision charged to operations 178.1 127.4 95.0 Provision utilization 175.5 118.5 84.6 Reclassification 8.3 As at December 31, 23.4 20.8 20.2 During the year to December 31, 2009 the Group reclassified its provision for Tricare Health Care Program rebates of $8.3 million at January 1, 2009 from provisions for discounts and doubtful accounts to accounts payable and accrued expenses.
At December 31, 2010 accounts receivable included $75.8 million December 31, 2009: $92.4 million related to royalty income.
Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 95 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 95 9 INVENTORIES Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market value and comprise: December 31, December 31, 2010 2009 $M $M Finished goods 91.9 50.9 Work-in-progress 113.9 102.1 Raw materials 54.2 36.7 260.0 189.7 At December 31, 2010 inventories included $4.1 million December 31, 2009: $18.8 million of costs capitalized prior to regulatory approval of the related product or manufacturing process.
Pre-approval inventory as at December 31, 2010 relate to product manufactured at the new manufacturing facility at Lexington Technology Park LTP which has not yet received regulatory approval.
Pre-approval inventories at December 31, 2009 related to VPRIV, which was granted marketing approval by the FDA on February 26, 2010 and marketing authorization by the European Commission on August 26, 2010.
10 PREPAID EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT ASSETS December 31, December 31, 2010 2009 $M $M Prepaid expenses 45.1 44.9 Income tax receivable 42.4 Value added taxes receivable 21.5 37.3 Other current assets 59.4 33.0 168.4 115.2 11 INVESTMENTS December 31, December 31, 2010 2009 $M $M Investments in private companies 5.9 3.9 Available-for-sale securities 83.9 87.0 Equity-method investments 11.8 14.8 101.6 105.7 Disposal of Virochem Pharma Inc. Virochem During the year to December 31, 2008 the Group recognized impairment On March 12, 2009 the Group completed the disposal of its investment charges of $44.3 million relating to its investment in Renovo Group plc, in Virochem to Vertex in a cash and stock transaction.
The disposal representing unrealized holding losses that were reclassified out of other was part of a transaction entered into by all the shareholders of comprehensive income into earnings in 2008, as management concluded Virochem with Vertex.
The carrying amount of the Groups investment in that the impairment was other-than-temporary.
The decline in the market Virochem on March 12, 2009 was $14.8 million.
In 2009 Shire received value of the Groups investment in Renovo Group plc initially arose from consideration of $19.2 million in cash and 2 million Vertex shares valued the results of clinical trials for JUVISTA which were announced over 2007 at $50.8 million from the disposal, recognizing a gain of $55.2 million and 2008.
During the third quarter of 2008, in considering whether the in other income expense, net in the year to December 31, 2009. decline in value was temporary or other-than-temporary the Group considered the following factors: the severity of the decline from historical In the year to December 31, 2010 the Group received further cost 87% and its duration eleven months : market analysts targets consideration of $2.0 million in cash and 0.2 million Vertex shares of Renovo Group plcs share price for the next 1824 months: and the valued at $9.1 million which had been held in escrow until certain revised expected filing date for JUVISTA due to the adoption of a substantive conditions expired in March 2010.
The Group recognized sequential rather than parallel Phase 3 development plan.
an additional gain on disposal of $11.1 million in other income expense, net in the year to December 31, 2010.
These factors, together with the significant decline in global equity markets during the third quarter of 2008 meant that the Group was The Vertex stock received has been accounted for as an available-forunable to reasonably estimate the period over which a full recovery in the sale investment.
value of its investment in Renovo Group plc could occur.
As such, the Group concluded that the decline in value was other-than-temporary.
Disposal of Questcor Pharmaceutical Inc. Questcor Therefore the full difference between the book value of the investment In the year to December 31, 2008 other income expense, net includes and the fair market value was recognized as an other-than-temporary a gain of $9.4 million from the disposal of the Groups available-for-sale impairment.
Accordingly the Group recognized an impairment charge investment in Questcor for cash consideration of $10.3 million.
of $44.3 million for its investment in Renovo Group plc through the consolidated statements of income in the third quarter of 2008.
For Other-than-temporary impairment of available-for-sale securities purposes of computing the impairment charge, fair value was assumed The Group recorded other-than-temporary impairments of $1.5 million, to be 0.26 per share, representing the closing price of Renovo Group $0.8 million and $58.0 million against its available-for-sale securities plc securities on the London Stock Exchange on September 30, 2008. in the years to December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 96 96 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 12 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET December 31, December 31, 2010 2009 $M $M Land and buildings 689.9 398.7 Office furniture, fittings and equipment 304.9 280.5 Warehouse, laboratory and manufacturing equipment 119.4 114.5 Assets under construction 167.7 193.2 1,281.9 986.9 Less: Accumulated depreciation 428.5 310.1 853.4 676.8 Depreciation expense for the years to December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $119.2 million, $105.0 million, and $77.2 million respectively.
The expense included impairment losses of $nil, $6.3 million and $2.2 million in the years to December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively.
Purchase of the Lexington Technology Park campus in Lexington, Massachusetts On June 30, 2010 Shire completed the purchase of certain properties on the Lexington Technology Park campus in Lexington, Massachusetts, some of which the Group had previously leased, for a cash purchase price of $165.0 million.
The purchase price of $165.0 million has been allocated to the acquired properties and extinguishment of existing building finance obligations using a relative fair value approach: $121.9 million has been recorded as Property, plant and equipment, being land $72.1 million and buildings $49.8 million.
The remaining $43.1 million relates to the extinguishment of existing building finance obligations and has been applied against the relevant financing obligations, see Note 18.
13 GOODWILL December 31, December 31, 2010 2009 $M $M Goodwill arising on businesses acquired 402.5 384.7 During the year to December 31, 2010 the Group acquired all the shares and warrants in Movetis for cash consideration of $592.0 million, which resulted in goodwill of $27.9 million see Note 4.
The goodwill has been assigned to the SP operating segment.
During the year to December 31, 2009 the Group acquired the worldwide rights excluding the US, Canada and Barbados to EQUASYM IR and XL for a total consideration of $91.0 million, which resulted in goodwill of $13.2 million see Note 4.
At December 31, 2010 goodwill of $245.9 million 2009: $214.5 million is held in the SP segment and $156.6 million 2009: $170.2 million in the HGT segment.
2010 2009 $M $M As at January 1, 384.7 350.8 Acquisitions including finalization of purchase price allocation for Jerini in 2009 27.9 27.1 Foreign currency translation 10.1 6.8 As at December 31, 402.5 384.7 Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 97 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 97 14 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS, NET December 31, December 31, 2010 2009 $M $M Intellectual property rights acquired Currently marketed products 2,516.4 2,351.6 IPR&D 139.7 6.1 Other intangible assets 22.0 8.7 2,678.1 2,366.4 Less: Accumulated amortization 699.2 575.7 1,978.9 1,790.7 At December 31, 2010 the net book value of intangible assets allocated to the SP segment was $1,482.9 million December 31, 2009: $1,238.0 million and in the HGT segment was $496.0 million December 31, 2009: $552.7 million.
The change in the net book value of other intangible assets for the year to December 31, 2010 is shown in the table below: Other intangible assets 2010 2009 $M $M As at January 1, 1,790.7 1,824.9 Acquisitions 472.7 84.0 Amortization charged 135.2 138.6 Impairment on re-measurement of DAYTRANA to fair value less costs to sell 42.7 Divestment of DAYTRANA to Noven 56.0 Foreign currency translation 50.6 20.4 As at December 31, 1,978.9 1,790.7 In the year to December 31, 2010 the Group acquired intangible assets In the year to December 31, 2008 the Group recognized impairment totaling $472.7 million, principally relating to the RESOLOR currently charges of $97.1 million, of which $94.6 million related to the writemarketed product $317.0 million and IPR&D $139.0 million acquired down of its DYNEPO intangible asset to its fair value $nil.
Changes in through the Movetis business combination, see Note 4 for further the external environment, including the launch of several competing details.
The weighted-average amortization period for acquired bio-similars at lower prices made DYNEPO uneconomic for the Group.
currently marketed products is 14 years.
Accordingly Shire decided to stop commercializing DYNEPO.
Product sales were wound down over the second half of 2008 as all patients Amortization charged for the years to December 31, 2010, 2009 and were transferred off DYNEPO by the end of 2008.
The fair value of 2008 was $135.2 million, $138.6 million and $127.9 million, respectively.
DYNEPO was determined using an expected present value technique.
The Group additionally recorded impairment losses of $42.7 million, $nil The impairment charges related to the SP operating segment.
Management estimates that the annual amortization charge in respect In the year to December 31, 2010 the Group divested DAYTRANA to of intangible assets held at December 31, 2010 will be approximately Noven see Note 6.
On approval of the divestment in the third quarter $147 million for each of the five years to December 31, 2015.
Estimated of 2010, the Group recognized an impairment loss of $42.7 million amortization expense can be affected by various factors including to record the DAYTRANA disposal group at the lower of its carrying future acquisitions, disposals of product rights, regulatory approval amount or fair value less costs to sell.
The impairment loss has been and subsequent amortization of the acquired IPR&D projects, foreign recorded to SG&A expenses in the year to December 31, 2010.
The exchange movements and the technological advancement and DAYTRANA disposal group formed part of the SP operating segment.
regulatory approval of competitor products.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 98 98 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 15 ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES December 31, December 31, 2010 2009 $M $M Trade accounts payable and accrued purchases 234.7 170.6 Accrued rebatesMedicaid 379.6 188.2 Accrued rebatesManaged care 170.3 153.4 Sales return reserve 69.8 62.7 Accrued bonuses 91.6 66.8 Accrued employee compensation and benefits payable 48.1 42.6 R&D accruals 60.7 53.1 Marketing accruals 26.5 31.5 Deferred revenue 13.7 52.2 Other accrued expenses 144.3 108.0 1,239.3 929.1 Accrued Medicaid rebates have increased by $191.4 million Medicaid rebate calculations from October 1, 2010 forward.
CMS has to $379.6 million at December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009: explicitly referred manufacturers with authorized generics to this new $188.2 million due to higher utilization and rebate levels, together provision in making their branded rebate calculations, further supporting with higher product sales.
There are potentially different interpretations as to how shipments However, CMS could disagree with the Groups interpretation for of authorized generic ADDERALL XR to Teva and Impax should be determining Medicaid rebates payable for the period prior to October 1, included in the Medicaid rebate calculation pursuant to Medicaid rebate 2010, require Shire to apply an alternative interpretation of the Medicaid legislation, including the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 the Medicaid rebate legislation and pay up to $210 million above the recorded liability.
As a result, more than one unit rebate amount For rebates in respect of 2009 prescriptions 2009 rebates this URA is calculable for the purposes of determining the Groups would represent a URA substantially in excess of the unit sales price Medicaid rebate liability to the States after authorized generic launch.
of ADDERALL XR and accordingly in excess of the approximate In the years to December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Group recorded amount of the full cost to the States of reimbursement for Medicaid its accrual for Medicaid rebates based on its best estimate of the prescriptions of ADDERALL XR.
For rebates in respect of 2010 rebate payable.
This best estimate is consistent with i the Groups prescriptions, as a result of provisions in the 2010 Affordable Care interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation, as amended in 2010 Act, the URA would be limited to an amount approximating the unit by the relevant provisions of the 2010 Affordable Care Act, ii the sales price of ADDERALL XR.
Groups repeated and consistent submission of price reporting to the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services CMS, using the Groups Should CMS require Shire to apply an alternative interpretation of the interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation, iii CMS calculating Medicaid rebate legislation for the period prior to October 1, 2010, Shire the URA based on that interpretation, iv States submitting Medicaid could seek to limit any additional payment for 2009 rebates to a level rebate invoices using this URA, and v Shire paying these invoices.
approximating the full, un-rebated cost to the States of ADDERALL XR, or $130 million above the recorded liability.
Further, Shire believes it has Shire believes that its interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation a strong legal basis supporting its interpretation of the Medicaid rebate is reasonable and correct.
In addition, the 2010 Affordable Care Act legislation, and that there would be a strong basis to initiate litigation contained a provision, effective as of October 1, 2010, that provided to recover any amount paid in excess of the recorded liability.
The result further clarity, in a manner consistent with the Groups interpretation, of any such litigation cannot be predicted and could result in additional as to how shipments of authorized generics should be included in rebate liability above Shires current best estimate.
16 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES December 31, December 31, 2010 2009 $M $M Income taxes payable 16.2 46.7 Value added taxes 9.9 10.3 Other accrued liabilities 23.5 31.0 49.6 88.0 Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 99 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 99 17 LONG-TERM DEBT The conversion price is subject to adjustment in respect of i any dividend or distribution by the Group, ii a change of control and iii Shire 2.75% Convertible Bonds due 2014 customary anti-dilution adjustments for, inter alia, share consolidations, On May 9, 2007 Shire issued $1,100 million in principal amount share splits, spin-off events, rights issues, bonus issues and reof 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 and convertible into fully paid organizations.
The initial conversion price of $33.5879 was adjusted Ordinary Shares of Shire plc the Bonds.
The net proceeds of issuing to $33.17 with effect from March 11, 2009 as a result of cumulative the Bonds, after deducting the commissions and other direct costs dividend payments during the period from October 2007 to April 2009 of issue, totaled $1,081.7 million.
In connection with the Scheme the inclusive.
The Ordinary Shares issued on conversion will be delivered Trust Deed was amended and restated in 2008 in order to provide credited as fully paid, and will rank pari passu in all respects with that, following the substitution of Shire plc in place of Old Shire as the all fully paid Ordinary Shares in issue on the relevant conversion date.
principal obligor and issuer of the Convertible Bonds, the Bonds would be convertible into Ordinary Shares of Shire plc.
Revolving credit facilities agreement On November 23, 2010 Shire entered into a committed multicurrency The Bonds were issued at 100% of their principal amount, and revolving and swingline facilities agreement with a number of financial unless previously purchased and cancelled, redeemed or converted, institutions, for which Abbey National Treasury Services Plc trading will be redeemed on May 9, 2014 the Final Maturity Date at their as Santander Global Banking and Markets, Bank of America Securities principal amount.
Limited, Barclays Capital, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc acted as mandated The Bonds bear interest at 2.75% per annum, payable semi-annually lead arrangers and bookrunners the new RCF.
The new RCF is for in arrears on November 9 and May 9.
The Bonds constitute direct, an aggregate amount of $1,200 million and cancelled Shires existing unconditional, unsubordinated and unsecured obligations of the Group, committed revolving credit facility the old RCF.
The new RCF, which and rank pari passu and ratably, without any preference amongst includes a $250 million swingline facility, may be used for general themselves, and equally with all other existing and future unsecured corporate purposes and matures on November 23, 2015. and unsubordinated obligations of the Group.
The interest rate on each loan drawn under the new RCF for each The Bonds may be redeemed at the option of the Group, at their interest period is the percentage rate per annum which is the aggregate principal amount together with accrued and unpaid interest if: i at any of the applicable margin ranging from 0.90 to 2.25% per annum time after May 23, 2012 if on no less than 20 dealing days in any period and LIBOR for the applicable currency and interest period.
Shire also of 30 consecutive dealing days the value of Shires Ordinary Shares pays a commitment fee on undrawn amounts at 35% per annum underlying each Bond in the principal amount of $100,000 would of the applicable margin.
exceed $130,000: or ii at any time conversion rights have been exercised, and or purchases and corresponding cancellations, and or Under the new RCF it is required that i Shires ratio of Net Debt redemptions effected in respect of 85% or more in principal amount to EBITDA as defined within the new RCF agreement does not of Bonds originally issued.
The Bonds may also be redeemed at the exceed 3.5:1 for either the 12 month period ending December 31 option of the Bond holder at their principal amount including accrued or June 30 unless Shire has exercised its option which is subject to but unpaid interest on May 9, 2012 the Put Option, or following the certain conditions to increase it to 4.0:1 for two consecutive testing occurrence of a change of control of Shire.
The Bonds are repayable dates: ii the ratio of EBITDA to Net Interest as defined in the new in US dollars, but also contain provisions entitling the Group to settle RCF agreement must not be less than 4.0:1, for either the 12 month redemption amounts in Pounds sterling, or in the case of the Final period ending December 31 or June 30, and iii additional limitations Maturity Date and following exercise of the Put Option, by delivery on the creation of liens, disposal of assets, incurrence of indebtedness, of the underlying Ordinary Shares and a cash top-up amount.
making of loans, giving of guarantees and granting security over assets.
The Bonds are convertible into Ordinary Shares during the conversion On entering into the new RCF agreement the Group paid arrangement period, being the period from June 18, 2007 until the earlier of: i the costs of $8.0 million, which have been recorded as deferred charges close of business on the date falling fourteen days prior to the Final and amortized from the fourth quarter of 2010 over the contractual Maturity Date: ii if the Bonds have been called for redemption by the term of the new RCF.
Group, the close of business fourteen days before the date fixed for redemption: iii the close of business on the day prior to a Bond holder The availability of loans under the new RCF is subject to customary giving notice of redemption in accordance with the conditions: and conditions.
iv the giving of notice by the trustee that the Bonds are accelerated by reason of the occurrence of an event of default.
Upon conversion, the Bond holder is entitled to receive Ordinary Shares at the conversion price of $33.17 per Ordinary Share, subject to adjustment as outlined below.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 100 100 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 18 OTHER LONG-TERM DEBT substantial modification of the existing building finance obligation, whereby the existing liability was derecognized and a building financing During 2007 and 2009 Shire entered into certain multi-year leases for obligation based on the fair value of the liability under the revised lease its HGT business unit at North Reading and Lexington, Massachusetts.
terms recorded in its place.
The substantial modification resulted in a For some of these leases Shire was considered the in substance owner non-cash gain of $5.7 million in the year to December 31, 2009 which of the related properties over their construction period and as a result was recorded to other income expense, net.
Shire recorded assets being the fair value of the building element at inception of the relevant lease within property, plant and equipment On June 30, 2010, as outlined in Note 12, Shire completed the and the corresponding building financing obligations were recorded purchase of certain properties on the Lexington Technology Park within other long-term debt.
The land element of these leases was campus, including the properties held under building finance accounted for as an operating lease.
Accordingly Shire applied $43.1 million of the purchase price for the Lexington campus to extinguish the existing building In the year to December 31, 2009, on entering into certain of these finance obligations, recognizing a loss of $3.6 million within other leases Shire extended the term of the existing leases at Lexington income expense, net in the year to December 31, 2010.
This lease extension was accounted for as a 19 OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES December 31, December 31, 2010 2009 $M $M Income taxes payable 130.0 170.4 Deferred revenue 14.1 20.0 Deferred rent 12.8 14.5 Insurance provisions 13.5 18.3 Other accrued liabilities 12.5 23.9 182.9 247.1 20 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES a Leases Future minimum lease payments under operating leases at December 31, 2010 are presented below: Operating leases $M 2011 34.2 2012 21.9 2013 19.8 2014 19.0 2015 16.3 Thereafter 39.0 150.2 The Group leases land, facilities, motor vehicles and certain equipment under operating leases expiring through 2019.
Lease and rental expense amounted to $33.3 million, $35.5 million and $32.6 million for the years to December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively, which is predominantly included in SG&A expenses in the consolidated statements of income.
Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 101 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 101 20 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES continued Shire and Santaris have formed a joint research committee to monitor R&D activities through pre-clinical lead candidate selection at which b Letters of credit and guarantees point all development and commercialization costs will be the At December 31, 2010 the Group had irrevocable standby letters of responsibility of Shire.
credit and guarantees with various banks totaling $24.3 million, providing security for the Groups performance of various obligations.
These iii JUVISTA obligations are primarily in respect of the recoverability of insurance On June 19, 2007 Shire signed an agreement with Renovo Limited claims, lease obligations and supply commitments.
The Group has Renovo to develop and commercialize JUVISTA, Renovos novel restricted cash of $9.2 million, as required by these letters of credit.
drug candidate being investigated for the reduction of scarring in connection with surgery, outside of the EU.
On March 1, 2010 the c Collaborative arrangements license agreement was revised.
Details of significant collaborative arrangements are included below: In the revised license agreement, the rights to sell JUVISTA in all In-licensing arrangements territories outside the US, Mexico and Canada were returned to Renovo.
Milestone and royalty obligations remain unchanged from i Collaboration with Acceleron Pharma Inc. Acceleron the original agreement except that Shire will pay Renovo an additional for activin receptor type IIB ActRIIB class of molecules $5 million milestone if Shire elects to commence a clinical trial following On September 9, 2010 Shire announced that it had expanded its Shires review of the clinical trial report from Renovos first EU Phase 3 HGT pipeline by acquiring an exclusive license in markets outside clinical trial.
On February 11, 2011, Renovo announced that its Phase 3 of North America for the ActRIIB class of molecules being developed trial for JUVISTA in scar revision surgery did not meet its primary or by Acceleron.
The collaboration will initially focus on further developing secondary endpoints.
Shire is currently considering the trial data and HGT-4510 also called ACE-031, the lead ActRIIB drug candidate, whether to exercise its rights to terminate the license agreement.
which is in development in for the treatment of patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy DMD.
Phase 2a trial is on hold and clinical safety Shire has remaining obligations to pay Renovo $25 million on the filing is under review.
HGT-4510 and the other ActRIIB class of molecules of JUVISTA with the FDA: up to $150 million on FDA approval: royalties have the potential to be used in other muscular and neuromuscular on net sales of JUVISTA: and up to $525 million on the achievement of disorders with high unmet medical need.
Under the revised agreement, each party is responsible for its own development costs but future development In the year to December 31, 2010 Shire made an up-front payment costs can be shared by agreement.
Each party has free-of-charge of $45 million to Acceleron which has been expensed to R&D.
Shire access to the other partys data to support regulatory filings in their will pay Acceleron up to a further $165 million, subject to certain respective territories.
In the year to December 31, 2010 Shire made development, regulatory and sales milestones being met for HGT-4510 a payment to Renovo of $3.2 million 2009: $3.9 million, 2008: in DMD, up to an additional $288 million for successful commercialization $7.4 million, being the final payment under the terms of the original of other indications and molecules, and royalties on product sales.
license agreement, which has been charged by Shire to R&D.
Shire and Acceleron will conduct the collaboration through a joint Out-licensing arrangements steering committee, with subcommittees including a joint manufacture Shire has entered into various collaborative arrangements under which committee, and a joint patent committee to monitor the development the Group has out-licensed certain product or intellectual property of HGT-4510 and other compounds.
rights for consideration such as up-front payments, development milestones, sales milestones and or royalty payments.
In certain of ii Research Collaboration with Santaris Pharma A S Santaris these arrangements Shire and the licensee are both actively involved on Locked Nucleic Acid LNA Drug Platform in the development and commercialization of the licensed product and On August 24, 2009 Shire announced that it had entered into a have exposure to risks and rewards dependent on its commercial research collaboration with Santaris, to develop its proprietary LNA success.
In the year to December 31, 2010 Shire received milestone technology in a range of rare diseases.
LNA technology has the payments totaling $nil 2009: $4.0 million: 2008: $9.0 million.
benefit of shortened target validation and proof-of-concept, potentially In the year to December 31, 2010 Shire recognized milestone income increasing the speed and lowering the cost of development.
As part of $8.4 million 2009: $8.8 million: 2008: $4.2 million within other of the joint research project Santaris will design, develop and deliver revenues and $51.1 million 2009: $29.4 million: 2008: $24.3 million pre-clinical LNA oligonucleotides for Shire-selected orphan disease within product sales for shipment of product to the relevant licensee.
targets, and Shire will have the exclusive right to further develop and commercialize these candidate compounds on a worldwide basis.
Co-promotion agreementsVYVANSE In the year to December 31, 2010, Shire terminated its co-promotion In the year to December 31, 2009 Shire made an up-front payment agreement for VYVANSE with GSK.
Under the terms of the agreement, to Santaris of $6.5 million, for technology access and R&D funding, no termination payment or any other payments were made or are which was expensed to R&D.
due to GSK since agreed-upon sales thresholds were not achieved.
The Group does not believe that the termination of the co-promotion In the year to December 31, 2010 Shire paid success milestones agreement will impact the future performance of VYVANSE in the of $3.0 million to Santaris, expensed to R&D.
Shire has remaining United States.
Following Shires termination, GSK filed a lawsuit against obligations to pay Santaris $10.5 million subject to certain success Shire in the Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas relating to the cocriteria, and development and sales milestones up to a maximum of promotion agreement.
GSK is seeking compensation despite the failure $72 million for each indication.
Shire will also pay single or double-digit to achieve the required sales thresholds.
Shire believes that the lawsuit tiered royalties on net sales of the product.
is frivolous and without merit, and Shire will vigorously defend itself.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 102 102 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 20 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES continued Specific d Commitments VYVANSE On February 24, 2009 Actavis Elizabeth LLC brought a lawsuit in the i Clinical testing US District Court for the District of Columbia the District Court At December 31, 2010 the Group had committed to pay approximately against the FDA seeking to overturn the FDAs decision granting new $156.2 million December 31, 2009: $183.9 million to contract chemical entity exclusivity to VYVANSE.
Shire intervened in the lawsuit.
vendors for administering and executing clinical trials.
The timing On October 23, 2009, following a period for public comment, the FDA of these payments is dependent upon actual services performed issued a letter setting forth its analysis of the legal and regulatory issues by the organizations as determined by patient enrollment levels and reaffirming its decision that VYVANSE is entitled to new chemical and related activities.
A hearing on cross-motions for summary judgement was held on February 17, 2010.
On March 4, 2010 the District Court ii Contract manufacturing upheld the FDAs decision that VYVANSE is entitled to five-year market At December 31, 2010 the Group had committed to pay approximately exclusivity and confirmed that the FDAs actions complied with federal $108.6 million December 31, 2009: $152.3 million in respect administrative law standards as a reasonable exercise of the agencys of contract manufacturing.
The Group expects to pay $58.6 million scientific expertise.
Actavis Elizabeth LLC appealed the District Courts of these commitments in 2011. ruling to the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.
On November 9, 2010 the US Court of Appeals for the District of iii Other purchasing commitments Columbia circuit affirmed the rulings of the District Court and the FDA At December 31, 2010 the Group had committed to pay approximately to grant five-year new chemical entity exclusivity to VYVANSE.
$104.1 million December 31, 2009: $22.9 million for future purchases of goods and services, predominantly relating to active pharmaceutical INTUNIV ingredients sourcing.
The Group expects to pay $98.4 million of these In March and April, 2010 Shire was notified that three separate ANDAs commitments in 2011. were submitted under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market generic versions of 1mg, 2mg, 3mg, and 4mg strengths iv Investment commitments of INTUNIV.
The notices were from Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. At December 31, 2010 the Group had outstanding commitments and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd collectively, Teva : Actavis to subscribe for interests in companies and partnerships for amounts Elizabeth LLC and Actavis Inc. collectively, Actavis : and Anchen totaling $5.7 million December 31, 2009: $5.4 million which may Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Anchen, Inc. collectively, Anchen.
Within all be payable in 2011, depending on the timing of capital calls.
the requisite 45 day period, Shire filed lawsuits in the US District Court of the District of Delaware against each of Teva, Actavis and Anchen v Capital commitments for infringement of certain of Shires INTUNIV patents.
The filing At December 31, 2010 the Group had committed to spend of the lawsuits triggered a stay of approval of these ANDAs for up $76.0 million December 31, 2009: $41.4 million on capital projects.
A Markman hearing is scheduled to occur on May 27, This includes commitments for the expansion and modification 2011.
No trial date has been set.
of its offices and manufacturing facilities at the HGT campus in Lexington, Massachusetts.
On October 25, 2010 Shire received a Paragraph IV Notice Letter from Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. advising of the filing of an ANDA for a e Legal and other proceedings generic version of the 4mg strength of INTUNIV.
On October 29, 2010 Shire received a Paragraph IV Notice Letter from Impax Laboratories, General Inc. advising of the filing of an ANDA for a generic version of the 4mg The Group recognizes loss contingency provisions for probable losses strength of INTUNIV.
Shire was subsequently advised that Impax when management is able to reasonably estimate the loss.
Where the amended its ANDA to include the 1mg, 2mg and 3mg strengths of estimated loss lies within a range the Group records a loss contingency INTUNIV.
Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire filed a lawsuit in the provision based on its best estimate of the probable loss.
Where no US District Court of the Northern District of California against each particular amount within that range is a better estimate than any other of Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Watson Laboratories, Inc. -Florida, amount, the minimum amount is recorded.
These estimates are often Watson Pharma, Inc. ANDA, Inc. and Impax Laboratories, Inc. developed substantially before the ultimate loss is known, so estimates for infringement of certain of Shires INTUNIV patents.
The filing are refined each accounting period, as additional information becomes of the lawsuits triggered a stay of approval of these ANDAs for up known.
In instances where the Group is unable to develop a to 30 months.
reasonable estimate of loss, no litigation loss is recorded at that time.
As information becomes known a loss provision is set up when a On February 9, 2011 Shire received a Paragraph IV Notice Letter from reasonable estimate can be made.
The estimates are reviewed Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Mylan advising of the filing of an ANDA quarterly and the estimates are changed when expectations are for a generic version of the 4mg strength of INTUNIV.
Any outcome upon settlement that deviates from the Groups reviewing the details of Mylans Paragraph IV Notice Letter which was estimate may result in an additional expense or release in a future directed to two of the three Orange Book listed patents for INTUNIV.
At December 31, 2010 provisions for litigation losses, insurance claims and other disputes totaled $33.8 million December 31, 2009: $20.1 million.
Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 103 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 103 20 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES continued 21 DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS REPLAGAL Treasury policies and organization Mt.
Sinai School of Medicine of New York University Mt.
Sinai The Groups principal treasury operations are co-ordinated by its initiated lawsuits against Shire in Sweden on April 14, 2010 and in corporate treasury function.
All treasury operations are conducted Germany on April 20, 2010 alleging that Shires ERT for Fabry disease, within a framework of policies and procedures approved annually REPLAGAL, infringes Mt.
As a matter of policy, the Group does not undertake granted April 14, 2010.
Sinai is seeking an injunction against the speculative transactions that would increase its currency or interest use of REPLAGAL in these jurisdictions until expiration of the patent.
Sinai has been granted a Supplementary Protection Certificate in respect of the patent which extends the patent until August 2016.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on restricted cash, cash On January 18, 2011, the German Court found that REPLAGAL and cash equivalents and on foreign exchange contracts on which infringes Mt.
Sinais patent, and granted their request for an injunction.
interest is at floating rates.
This exposure is primarily to US dollar, Shire will appeal this decision.
As a result of the supply shortage for Pound sterling, Euro and Canadian dollar interest rates.
As the Group the only other ERT for Fabry Disease, Mt.
Sinai has undertaken not to maintains all of its cash and liquid investments and foreign exchange enforce the injunction in Germany prior to September 30, 2011 at the contracts on a short-term basis for liquidity purposes, this risk is not earliest.
There have been no substantive proceedings in the Swedish actively managed.
In the year to December 31, 2010 the average case to date.
Shire will continue to defend its right to commercialize interest rate received on cash and cash equivalents was less than 1% REPLAGAL in these countries and will vigorously oppose the validity per annum.
The largest proportion of these cash and cash equivalents of this patent.
Shire filed an opposition against Mt.
Sinais patent before was in US dollar money market and liquidity funds.
the European Patent Office on July 23, 2010, and commenced an invalidation proceeding in the UK on December 8, 2010.
Sinai The Group incurs interest at a fixed rate of 2.75% on the Bonds due has counterclaimed alleging infringement in the UK proceedings.
The building financing obligation of $8.4 million is also subject to a fixed interest rate over the lease term on the amount outstanding.
FOSRENOL In February 2009 Shire was notified that three separate Abbreviated During the year to December 31, 2010 the Group did not enter into New Drug Applications ANDAs were submitted under the Hatchany derivative instruments to manage interest rate exposure.
The Waxman Act seeking permission to market generic versions of 500mg, Group continues to review its interest rate risk and the policies in place 750mg and 1,000mg strengths of FOSRENOL.
The notices were to manage the risk.
received from Barr: Mylan, Inc. Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Matrix Laboratories, Inc. collectively, Mylan : and Natco Pharma Limited Market risk of investments Natco.
Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire filed lawsuits in the At December 31, 2010 the Group had investment of $101.6 million US District Court of the Southern District of New York against each of comprising available-for-sale investments in publicly quoted Barr, Mylan and Natco for infringement of certain of Shires FOSRENOL companies $83.9 million, equity-method investments $11.8 million patents.
The filing of the lawsuits triggered a stay of approval of these and cost method investments in private companies $5.9 million.
The lawsuits have been consolidated into The investments in publicly quoted companies and equity-method a single case.
A Markman hearing was held on June 17, 2010.
No trial investments, for certain investment funds which contain a mixed date has been set.
portfolio of public and private investments, are exposed to market risk.
No financial instruments or derivatives have been employed to hedge LIALDA MEZAVANT this risk.
In May 2010 Shire was notified that an ANDA was submitted under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market a generic version Credit risk of LIALDA.
The notice was received from Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA, Financial instruments that potentially expose Shire to concentrations Inc. Zydus.
Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire filed a lawsuit of credit risk consist primarily of short-term cash investments, trade in the US District Court of the District of Delaware against Zydus and accounts receivable from product sales and royalty receipts and Cadila Healthcare Limited, doing business as Zydus Cadila.
Cash is invested in short-term money market of the lawsuits triggered a stay of approval of the ANDA for up to instruments, including money market and liquidity funds and bank 30 months.
The money market and liquidity funds in which Shire invests are all triple A rated by both Standard & Poors and by Moodys ADDERALL XR credit rating agencies.
On November 1, 2010 Impax filed suit against Shire claiming that Shire is in breach of its supply contract for the authorized generic version The Group is exposed to the credit risk of the counterparties with of ADDERALL XR.
Shire has been supplying Impax with authorized which it enters into derivative contracts.
The Group aims to limit generic ADDERALL XR since October 1, 2009.
Shires ability to supply this exposure through a system of internal credit limits which require this product, however, is limited by quota restrictions that the US Drug counterparties to have a long-term credit rating of A A2 or better Enforcement Administration places on amphetamine, which is the from the major rating agencies.
The internal credit limits are approved products active ingredient.
Impax is seeking specific performance, by the Board and exposure against these limits is monitored by the equitable relief and unspecified damages.
Shire will defend the action.
The counterparties to the derivative contracts are major international financial institutions.
Subpoena related to ADDERALL XR, DAYTRANA and VYVANSE On September 23, 2009 the Group received a subpoena from the US Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General in coordination with the US Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania seeking production of documents related to the sales and marketing of ADDERALL XR, DAYTRANA and VYVANSE.
The Group is cooperating with this investigation.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 104 104 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 21 DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS continued Transactional exposure arises where transactions occur in currencies different to the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
The main The Groups revenues from product sales are mainly governed by trading currencies of the Group are the US dollar, the Canadian dollar, agreements with major pharmaceutical wholesalers and relationships Pounds sterling and the Euro.
It is the Groups policy that these with other pharmaceutical distributors and retail pharmacy chains.
For exposures are minimized to the extent practicable by denominating the year to December 31, 2010 there were two customers in the US transactions in the subsidiarys functional currency.
who accounted for 44% of the Groups product sales.
However, such customers typically have significant cash resources and as such the Where significant exposures remain, the Group uses foreign exchange risk from concentration of credit is considered minimal.
The Group has contracts being spot, forward and swap contracts to manage the taken positive steps to manage any credit risk associated with these exposure for balance sheet assets and liabilities that are denominated transactions and operates clearly defined credit evaluation procedures.
in currencies different to the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
These assets and liabilities relate predominantly to interForeign exchange risk company financing and accruals for royalty receipts.
The foreign The Group trades in numerous countries and as a consequence has exchange contracts have not been designated as hedging instruments.
transactional and translational foreign exchange exposure.
Translational foreign exchange exposure arises on the translation into US dollars of the financial statements of non-US dollar functional subsidiaries.
At December 31, 2010 the Group had 31 swap and forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding to manage currency risk.
The swaps and forward contracts mature within 90 days.
The Group did not have credit risk related contingent features or collateral linked to the derivatives.
These foreign exchange contracts were classified in the consolidated balance sheet as follows: Fair value Fair value December 31, December 31, 2010 2009 $M $M Assets: Prepaid expenses and other current assets 3.7 5.4 Liabilities: Other current liabilities 2.7 1.2 Net losses both realized and unrealized arising on foreign exchange contracts have been classified in the consolidated statements of income as follows: Location of net gain loss Amount of net gain loss recognized in income recognized in income December 31, December 31, 2010 2009 $M $M Foreign exchange contracts Other income expense, net 24.8 1.4 These net foreign exchange gains losses are offset within other income expense, net by net foreign exchange losses gains arising on the balance sheet items that these contracts were put in place to manage.
22 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis At December 31, 2010 and 2009 the following financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a recurring basis using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets Level 1 : significant other observable inputs Level 2 : and significant unobservable inputs Level 3.
Carrying value Fair value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 At December 31, 2010 $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets: 1 Available-for-sale securities 83.9 83.9 83.9 2 Contingent consideration receivable 61.0 61.0 61.0 Foreign exchange contracts 3.7 3.7 3.7 Financial liabilities: Foreign exchange contracts 2.7 2.7 2.7 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 At December 31, 2009 $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets: 1 Available-for-sale securities 87.0 87.0 87.0 Foreign exchange contracts 5.4 5.4 5.4 Financial liabilities: Foreign exchange contracts 1.2 1.2 1.2 1 Available-for-sale securities are included within Investments in the consolidated balance sheet.
2 Contingent consideration receivable is included within Prepaid expenses and other current assets and Other non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheet.
Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 105 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 105 22 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT continued Assets and liabilities that have been measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis after initial recognition Certain estimates and judgements were required to develop the fair As outlined in Note 18, the building financing obligation for leased value amounts.
The fair value amounts shown above are not property in Lexington, Massachusetts was substantially modified in necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Group would realize the year to December 31, 2009 by extension of the term of the relevant upon disposition, nor do they indicate the Groups intent or ability underlying lease on July 31, 2009.
The existing liability of $45.1 million to dispose of the financial instrument.
was derecognized, and a building financing obligation of $39.4 million was recorded, such liability measured using the fair value of the liability The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the under the revised terms.
This extension of the term of the building fair value of each material class of financial instrument: finance obligation was treated as a substantial modification resulting in a gain of $5.7 million, which has been recorded within Other Available-for-sale securitiesthe fair values of available-for-sale income expense, net in the year to December 31, 2009. securities are estimated based on quoted market prices for those investments.
The fair value of the building financing obligation was estimated based Contingent consideration receivablethe fair value of the contingent on the present value of the contractual cash flows under the revised consideration receivable has been estimated using the income lease and the estimated residual value of the property at the end of the approach using a discounted cash flow method.
This discounted lease term, such payments being discounted at a risk-free interest rate cash flow approach uses significant unobservable inputs, such as adjusted for Shires credit risk.
The fair value measurement falls within future sales of the divested product, relevant contractual royalty Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy because the estimate of Shires credit rates, an appropriate discount rate and assumed weightings applied risk was based on a significant unobservable input.
to potential scenarios in deriving a probability weighted fair value.
Foreign exchange contractsthe fair values of the swap and forward foreign exchange contracts have been determined using an income approach based on current market expectations about the future cash flows.
Fair value at measurement date Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 $M $M $M $M Building financing obligation 39.4 39.4 Financial assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis The carrying amounts and estimated fair values as at December 31, 2010 and 2009 of the Groups financial assets and liabilities which are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis are as follows: December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value $M $M $M $M Financial liabilities: Convertible bonds 1,100.0 1,139.8 1,100.0 1,067.0 Building financing obligation 8.4 8.2 46.7 47.3 Certain estimates and judgements were required to develop the fair value amounts.
The fair value amounts shown above are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Group would realize upon disposition, nor do they indicate the Groups intent or ability to dispose of the financial instrument.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each material class of financial instrument: Convertible bondsthe fair value of Shires $1,100 million 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 is determined by reference to the market price of the instrument as the convertible bonds are publicly traded.
Building finance obligationsthe fair value of building finance obligations are estimated based on the present value of future cash flows, and an estimate of the residual value of the underlying property at the end of the lease term, associated with these obligations.
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximate to fair value because of the short-term maturity of these amounts.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 106 106 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 23 SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY The ADS Depositary has made an election on behalf of all holders of ADSs such that they will receive dividends from Old Shire under Authorized common stock the income access share arrangements.
Dividends paid by Old Shire The authorized stock of Shire plc as at December 31, 2010 was under the income access share arrangements will not, under current 1,000,000,000 Ordinary Shares and 2 Subscriber Ordinary Shares.
legislation, be subject to any UK or Irish withholding taxes.
If a holder of ADSs does not wish to receive dividends from Old Shire under the Dividends income access share arrangements, she he must withdraw his her Under Jersey law, Shire plc is entitled to make payments of Ordinary Shares from the ADS program prior to the dividend record dividends from its accumulated profits and other distributable date set by the Depositary and request delivery of the Shire plc reserves.
At December 31, 2010 Shire plcs distributable reserves Ordinary Shares.
This will enable him her to receive dividends from were approximately $3.6 billion.
Shire plc if necessary, by making an election to that effect.
Treasury stock It is the expectation, although there can be no certainty, that Old Shire The Company records the purchase of its own shares by the ESOT will distribute dividends on the income access share to the Trustee as a reduction of shareholders equity based on the price paid for the for the benefit of all Ordinary Shareholders who make or are deemed shares.
At December 31, 2010, the ESOT held 4.4 million Ordinary to make an income access share election in an amount equal to what Shares 2009: 5.8 million: 2008: 7.3 million and 3.2 million ADSs would have been such Ordinary Shareholders entitlement to dividends 2009: 4.0 million: 2008: 4.5 million.
During the year to December 31, from Shire plc in the absence of the income access share election.
2010 a total of 0.02 million 2009: 0.1 million: 2008: 0.2 million If any dividend paid on the income access share and or paid to the Ordinary Shares and 0.02 million 2009: 0.02 million: 2008: 2.8 million Ordinary Shareholders is less than such Ordinary Shareholders ADSs had been purchased for total consideration of $1.7 million entitlement to dividends from Shire plc in the absence of the income 2009: $1.0 million: 2008: $146.6 million, including stamp duty and access share election, the dividend on the income access share will broker commission.
be allocated pro-rata among the Ordinary Shareholders and Shire plc will pay the balance to these Ordinary Shareholders by way of dividend.
Income Access Share Arrangements IAS Trust In such circumstances, there will be no grossing up by Shire plc in Shire has put into place income access arrangements which enable respect of, and Old Shire and Shire plc will not compensate those Ordinary Shareholders, other than ADS holders, to choose whether Ordinary Shareholders for, any adverse consequences including any they receive their dividends from Shire, a company resident for tax Irish withholding tax consequences.
purposes in the Republic of Ireland, or Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings Old Shire, from a Shire group company resident for tax Shire will be able to suspend or terminate these arrangements at any purposes in the UK.
time, in which case the full Shire plc dividend will be paid directly by Shire plc to those Ordinary Shareholders including the Depositary Old Shire has issued one income access share to the Income Access who have made or are deemed to have made an income access Trust the IAS Trust which is held by the trustee of the IAS Trust share election.
In such circumstances, there will be no grossing up by the Trustee.
The mechanics of the arrangements are as follows: Shire plc in respect of, and Old Shire and Shire plc will not compensate those Ordinary Shareholders for, any adverse consequences including i If a dividend is announced or declared by Shire plc on its Ordinary any Irish withholding tax consequences.
Shares, an amount is paid by Old Shire by way of a dividend on the income access share to the Trustee, and such amount is In the year ended December 31, 2010 Old Shire paid dividends totaling paid by the Trustee to Ordinary Shareholders who have elected $58.3 million 2009: $45.9 million: 2008: $7.2 million on the income or are deemed to have elected to receive dividends under these access share to the Trustee in an amount equal to the dividend Shire arrangements.
The dividend which would otherwise be payable Ordinary Shareholders would have received from Shire.
by Shire plc to its Ordinary Shareholders will be reduced by an amount equal to the amount paid to its Ordinary Shareholders by the Trustee.
ii If the dividend paid on the income access share and on-paid by the Trustee to Ordinary Shareholders is less than the total amount of the dividend announced or declared by Shire plc on its Ordinary Shares, Shire plc will be obliged to pay a dividend on the relevant Ordinary Shares equivalent to the amount of the shortfall.
In such a case, any dividend paid on the Ordinary Shares will generally be subject to Irish withholding tax at the rate of 20% or such lower rate as may be applicable under exemptions from withholding tax contained in Irish law.
iii An Ordinary Shareholder is entitled to make an income access share election such that he she will receive his her dividends which would otherwise be payable by Shire plc under these arrangements from Old Shire.
iv An Ordinary Shareholder who holds 25,000 or fewer Ordinary Shares at the first record date after he she first becomes an Ordinary Shareholder, and who does not make a contrary election, will be deemed to have made an election pursuant to the Shire plc articles of association such that he she will receive his her dividends under these arrangements from Old Shire.
Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:28 Page 107 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 107 24 EARNINGS PER SHARE The following table reconciles net income attributable to Shire plc and the weighted-average Ordinary Shares outstanding for basic and diluted earnings per share for the periods presented: 2010 2009 2008 $M $M $M Amounts attributable to Shire plc shareholders Income from continuing operations, net of taxes 588.0 503.8 170.0 Loss from discontinued operations 12.4 17.6 Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest in subsidiaries 0.2 3.6 Numerator for basic earnings per share 588.0 491.6 156.0 1 Interest on convertible bonds, net of tax 33.5 Numerator for diluted earnings per share 621.5 491.6 156.0 Millions Millions Millions Weighted-average number of shares: 2 Basic 546.2 540.7 541.6 Effect of dilutive shares: 3 Share-based awards to employees 10.9 7.3 3.8 4 Convertible bonds 2.75% due 2014 33.2 Diluted 590.3 548.0 545.4 1 For the years to December 31, 2009 and 2008 interest on the convertible bond has not been added back as the effect would be anti-dilutive.
2 Excludes shares purchased by the ESOT and presented by the Company as treasury stock.
3 Calculated using the treasury stock method.
4 Calculated using the if-converted method.
Year to December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Earnings per Ordinary Sharebasic Earnings from continuing operations attributable to Shire plc shareholders 107.7 93.2 32.1 Loss from discontinued operations attributable to Shire plc shareholders 2.3 3.3 Earnings per Ordinary Share attributable to Shire plc shareholdersbasic 107.7 90.9 28.8 Earnings per Ordinary Sharediluted Earnings from continuing operations attributable to Shire plc shareholders 105.3 91.9 31.8 Loss from discontinued operations attributable to Shire plc shareholders 2.2 3.2 Earnings per Ordinary Share attributable to Shire plc shareholdersdiluted 105.3 89.7 28.6 The share equivalents not included in the calculation of the diluted weighted-average number of shares are shown below: 1 1 2 1 2 2010 2009 2008 Number Number Number of shares of shares of shares Millions Millions Millions Share awards out of the money 5.4 16.4 17.3 Convertible bonds 2.75% due 2014 33.2 32.7 1 For the year to December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 certain stock options have been excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS because their exercise prices exceeded Shire plcs average share price during the calculation period.
2 For the year to December 31, 2009 and 2008 the Ordinary Shares underlying the convertible bonds have not been included in the calculation of the diluted weighted-average number of shares, as the effect of their inclusion would be anti-dilutive.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:29 Page 108 108 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 25 SEGMENTAL REPORTING Shires internal financial reporting is in line with its business unit and management reporting structure and includes two segments: SP and HGT.
The SP and HGT reportable segments represent the Groups revenues and costs for currently promoted and sold products, together with the costs of developing projects for future commercialization.
All Other has been included in the table below in order to reconcile the two operating segments to the total consolidated figures.
The Group evaluates performance based on revenue and operating income.
The Group does not have inter-segment transactions.
Assets that are directly attributable or allocable to the segments have been separately disclosed.
SP HGT All Other Total 2010 $M $M $M $M Product sales 2,219.2 909.0 3,128.2 Royalties 173.3 154.8 328.1 Other revenues 7.1 2.6 5.1 14.8 Total revenues 2,399.6 911.6 159.9 3,471.1 1 Cost of product sales 332.1 129.3 2.0 463.4 1 Research and development 348.9 312.2 0.4 661.5 1 Selling, general and administrative 1,035.8 297.7 192.8 1,526.3 Gain on sale of product rights 16.5 16.5 Re-organization costs 13.0 21.3 34.3 Integration and acquisition costs 8.0 8.0 Total operating expenses 1,721.3 739.2 216.5 2,677.0 Operating income loss 678.3 172.4 56.6 794.1 Total assets 2,483.5 1,786.9 1,117.2 5,387.6 2 Long-lived assets 154.7 655.4 47.3 857.4 2 Capital expenditure on long-lived assets 21.8 281.1 12.9 315.8 1 Depreciation from manufacturing plants $38.1 million and amortization of favorable manufacturing contracts $1.7 million is included in Cost of product sales: depreciation of research and development assets $19.0 million is included in Research and development: and all other depreciation, amortization and impairment charges $238.3 million is included in Selling, general and administrative.
2 Long-lived assets comprise all non-current assets excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, deferred contingent consideration assets, deferred tax assets, investments, income tax receivable and financial instruments.
SP HGT All Other Total 2009 $M $M $M $M Product sales 2,138.2 555.5 2,693.7 Royalties 127.2 165.3 292.5 Other revenues 9.9 2.6 9.0 21.5 Total revenues 2,275.3 558.1 174.3 3,007.7 1 Cost of product sales 299.3 88.7 388.0 1 Research and development 375.0 257.2 6.1 638.3 1 Selling, general and administrative 954.4 208.7 179.5 1,342.6 Gain on sale of product rights 6.3 6.3 IPR&D charge 1.6 1.6 Re-organization costs 12.7 12.7 Integration and acquisition costs 2.9 7.7 10.6 Total operating expenses 1,638.0 563.9 185.6 2,387.5 Operating income loss 637.3 5.8 11.3 620.2 Total assets 2,067.1 1,576.1 974.3 4,617.5 2 Long-lived assets 202.6 422.4 55.6 680.6 2 Capital expenditure on long-lived assets 46.9 194.4 18.0 259.3 1 Depreciation from manufacturing plants $21.8 million and amortization of favorable manufacturing contracts $1.7 million is included in Cost of product sales: depreciation of research and development assets $15.5 million is included in research and development: and all other depreciation and amortization $204.7 million is included in selling, general and administrative.
2 Long-lived assets comprise all non-current assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, deferred tax assets, investments, income tax receivable and financial instruments.
Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:29 Page 109 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 109 25 SEGMENTAL REPORTING continued SP HGT All Other Total 2008 $M $M $M $M Product sales 2,272.5 481.7 2,754.2 Royalties 1.5 244.0 245.5 Other revenues 8.2 4.0 10.3 22.5 Total revenues 2,282.2 485.7 254.3 3,022.2 1 Cost of product sales 329.0 58.9 20.1 408.0 1 Research and development 288.0 200.3 6.0 494.3 1 Selling, general and administrative 1,118.5 172.7 164.0 1,455.2 In-process R&D charge 263.1 263.1 Gain on sale of product rights 20.7 20.7 Integration and acquisition costs 10.3 10.3 Total operating expenses 1,714.8 695.0 200.4 2,610.2 Operating income loss 567.4 209.3 53.9 412.0 Total assets 2,161.2 1,107.7 664.8 3,933.7 2 Long-lived assets 192.2 263.5 82.1 537.8 2 Capital expenditure on long-lived assets 54.1 169.5 30.6 254.2 1 Depreciation from manufacturing plants $16.2 million and amortization of favorable manufacturing contracts $1.7 million is included in Cost of product sales: depreciation of research and development assets $12.5 million is included in Research and development: and all other depreciation, amortization and intangible asset impairment charges $271.9 million are included in Selling, general and administrative.
2 Long-lived assets comprise all non-current assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, deferred tax assets, investments and financial instruments.
Geographic information Revenues based on the geographic location from which the sale originated : 2010 2009 2008 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Republic of Ireland 21.1 19.5 17.8 United Kingdom 203.9 163.9 160.0 North America 2,333.1 2,141.3 2,299.6 Rest of World 913.0 683.0 544.8 Total revenues 3,471.1 3,007.7 3,022.2 Long-lived assets comprise all non-current assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, contingent consideration assets, deferred tax assets, investments and financial instruments based on the geographic location within which the economic benefits arise: 2010 2009 Year to December 31, $M $M Republic of Ireland 0.7 United Kingdom 70.9 79.5 North America 777.8 593.5 Rest of World 8.7 6.9 Total 857.4 680.6 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:29 Page 110 110 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 25 SEGMENTAL REPORTING continued Material customers In the periods set out below, certain customers, all within the SP operating segment, accounted for greater than 10% of the Groups total revenues: 2010 2010 2009 2009 2008 2008 Year to December 31, $M % revenue $M % revenue $M % revenue Cardinal Health Inc. 791.2 25 797.0 27 888.7 29 McKesson Corp. 574.3 19 576.3 19 674.3 22 Amounts outstanding as at December 31, in respect of these material customers were as follows: 2010 2009 December 31, $M $M Cardinal Health Inc. 143.3 113.0 McKesson Corp. 93.0 82.9 Revenue by product In the periods set out below, revenues by major product were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 $M $M $M SPECIALTY PHARMACEUTICALS VYVANSE 634.2 504.7 318.9 ADDERALL XR 360.8 626.5 1,101.7 INTUNIV 165.9 5.4 DAYTRANA 49.4 71.0 78.7 EQUASYM 22.0 22.8 LIALDA MEZAVANT 293.4 235.9 140.4 PENTASA 235.9 214.8 185.5 RESOLOR 0.3 FOSRENOL 182.1 184.4 155.4 XAGRID 87.3 84.8 78.7 CARBATROL 82.3 82.4 75.9 REMINYL REMINYL XL 42.9 42.4 34.4 CALCICHEW 38.9 43.7 52.8 Other 23.8 19.4 50.1 2,219.2 2,138.2 2,272.5 HUMAN GENETIC THERAPIES ELAPRASE 403.6 353.1 305.1 REPLAGAL 351.3 193.8 176.1 VPRIV 143.0 2.5 FIRAZYR 11.1 6.1 0.5 909.0 555.5 481.7 3,128.2 2,693.7 2,754.2 Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:29 Page 111 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 111 26 INTEREST EXPENSE This estimate of interest was based on Shires cost of borrowing.
Between the close of the merger and November 5, 2008 the Group Interest expense for the years to December 31, 2010, 2009 and applied this interest rate on a quarterly compounding basis to the 2008 was $35.1 million, $39.8 million and $139.0 million respectively.
$419.9 million of consideration to calculate its provision for interest.
Interest expense in the years to December 31, 2010 and 2009 primarily includes interest on Shires convertible bond of $33.5 million Upon reaching agreement in principle with all the dissenting 2009: $33.3 million: 2008: $33.3 million.
shareholders, the Group determined that settlement had become the probable manner through which the appraisal rights litigation would Interest expense for the year to December 31, 2008 included be resolved.
Under current law, although not applicable in this case $87.3 million 2010: $nil and 2009: $nil in respect to the TKT appraisal because the merger was entered into before the relevant amendment rights litigation.
On November 5, 2008 Shire successfully settled all to the law became effective the court presumptively awarded interest aspects of this litigation with all parties.
Shire paid the same price in appraisal rights cases at a statutory rate that is 5 percentage points of $37 per share originally offered to all TKT shareholders at the above the Federal Reserve discount rate as it varies over the duration time of the July 2005 merger, plus interest.
The Delaware Chancery of the case.
In connection with the settlement, the Group agreed to Court approved dismissal of the case and Shire made payment an interest rate that approximates to this statutory rate.
Based on the to the dissenting shareholders on November 7, 2008.
The settlement settlement, the Group amended the method of determining its interest represented a total payment of $567.5 million, representing provision to reflect this revised manner of resolution and upon reaching consideration at $37 per share of $419.9 million and an interest cost settlement with the dissenting shareholders recorded an additional of $147.6 million.
interest expense of $73.0 million in its consolidated financial statements for the year to December 31, 2008.
Prior to reaching this settlement, the Group accrued interest based on a reasonable estimate of the amount that may be awarded by the Court to those former TKT shareholders who requested appraisal.
27 OTHER INCOME EXPENSE, NET 2010 2009 2008 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Impairment of non-current investments see Note 11 1.5 0.8 58.0 Gain on sale of non-current investments see Note 11 11.1 55.2 9.4 Loss on extinguishment gain on substantial modification of building finance obligation see Note 18 3.6 5.7 Other 1.9 0.6 15.7 7.9 60.7 32.9 28 RETIREMENT BENEFITS The Group makes contributions to defined contribution retirement plans that together cover substantially all employees.
The level of the Groups contribution is fixed at a set percentage of employees pay.
Group contributions to personal defined contribution pension plans totaled $31.8 million, $27.9 million and $26.3 million for the years to December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and were charged to operations as they became payable.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:29 Page 112 112 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 29 TAXATION The components of pre-tax income from continuing operations are as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Republic of Ireland 170.0 232.3 83.5 UK 35.4 62.8 39.2 US 745.5 552.2 238.7 IPR&D in the Republic of Ireland and other jurisdictions 1.6 263.1 Other jurisdictions 158.4 261.9 334.3 769.3 643.0 265.6 The provision for income taxes by location of the taxing jurisdiction for the years to December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 consisted of the following: 2010 2009 2008 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Current income taxes: US federal tax 176.4 154.3 12.0 US state and local taxes 6.6 14.4 6.4 UK corporation tax 0.3 Other 25.9 16.8 10.8 Total current taxes 208.9 185.5 7.9 Deferred taxes: Republic of Ireland 1.0 1.3 US federal tax 6.0 24.5 75.2 US state and local taxes 9.8 32.2 17.2 UK corporation tax 0.1 6.1 29.8 Other 10.3 4.6 3.6 Total deferred taxes 26.2 47.0 90.1 1 Total income taxes 182.7 138.5 98.0 1 Total income taxes relate solely to continuing operations as there is no tax provision benefit relating to discontinued operations for the years to December 31, 2010, 2009 or 2008.
Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:29 Page 113 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 113 29 TAXATION continued The reconciliation of income from continuing operations before income taxes, noncontrolling interests and equity in earnings of equity-method investees at the statutory tax rate to the provision for income taxes is shown in the table below: 2010 2009 2008 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of equity-method investees 769.3 643.0 265.6 1 Statutory tax rate 25.0% 25.0% 25.0% Adjustments to derive effective rate: Non-deductible items: IPR&D 12.1% Other permanent differences: US R&D credit 5.7% 5.2% 9.1% Effect of the convertible bond 1.8% 2.0% 5.0% 2 Intangible asset amortization 0.1% 6.5% 3 Intra-Group items 12.0% 11.8% 6.2% Other permanent items 0.8% 2.2% 1.4% Other items: Change in valuation allowance 5.1% 1.3% 12.4% Difference in taxation rates 11.0% 8.5% 3.1% Change in provisions for uncertain tax positions 2.2% 2.3% 1.9% Prior year adjustment 4.2% 2.7% 9.2% Change in tax rates 1.9% 0.2% Other 0.2% 2.1% 4.8% Provision for income taxes on continuing operations 23.8% 21.5% 36.9% 1 In addition to being subject to the Irish Corporation tax rate of 25%, in 2010 the Group is also subject to income tax in other territories in which the Group operates, including: Canada 19.5% : France 33.3% : Germany 15% : Italy 27.5% : Malta 35% : the Netherlands 25.5% : Belgium 33.99% : Spain 30% : Sweden 28% : Switzerland 8.5% : United Kingdom 28.0% and the US 35%.
The rates quoted represent the headline federal income tax rates in each territory, and do not include any state taxes or equivalents or surtaxes or other taxes charged in individual territories, and do not purport to represent the effective tax rate for the Group in each territory.
2 The permanent difference results from tax deductible amortization available following inter-company asset transfers for which the recognition of a deferred tax asset is prohibited.
3 Intra-Group items principally relate to the effect of inter-company dividends, capital receipts either taxable or non-taxable and other intra-territory eliminations, the pre-tax effect of which has been eliminated in arriving at the Groups consolidated income from continuing operations before income taxes, noncontrolling interests and equity in earnings losses of equity-method investees.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions The Group files income tax returns in the Republic of Ireland, the UK, the US both federal and state and various other jurisdictions see footnote 1 to the table above for major jurisdictions.
With few exceptions, the Group is no longer subject to income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 1999.
Tax authorities in various jurisdictions are in the process of auditing the Groups tax returns for fiscal periods from 1999: these tax audits cover a range of issues, including transfer pricing, potential restrictions on the utilization of net operating losses, potential taxation of overseas dividends and controlled foreign companies rules.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: 2010 2009 2008 $M $M $M Balance at January 1, 254.0 228.7 292.2 Increases based on tax positions related to the current year 12.4 4.2 30.5 Decreases based on tax positions taken in the current year 1.7 0.2 Increases for tax positions taken in prior years 18.0 25.2 3.9 Decreases for tax positions taken in prior years 3.2 19.4 17.4 Decreases resulting from settlements with the taxing authorities 6.5 16.1 16.6 Decreases as a result of expiration of the statute of limitations 13.8 1 Foreign currency translation adjustments 17.8 31.6 50.1 2 Balance at December 31, 290.8 254.0 228.7 1 Recognized within Other comprehensive income.
2 The full amount of which would affect the effective rate if recognized.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:29 Page 114 114 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 29 TAXATION continued payments have been offset against the income tax liability within the balance sheet but have not reduced the provision for unrecognized The Group considers it reasonably possible that the total amount tax benefits.
of unrecognized tax benefits recorded at December 31, 2010 could decrease by approximately $6.5 million in the next twelve months as a The Group recognizes interest and penalties accrued related result of the conclusion of audits currently being conducted by various to unrecognized tax benefits within income taxes.
During the years tax authorities.
While tax audits remain open, the Group also considers ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Group recognized it reasonably possible that issues may be raised by tax authorities $1.0 million, $21.3 million and $26.1 million respectively in interest resulting in increases to the balance of unrecognized tax benefits, and penalties and the Group had a liability of $110.5 million and however an estimate of such an increase cannot be made.
$111.5 million for the payment of interest and penalties accrued at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
The Group is required in certain tax jurisdictions to make advance deposits to tax authorities on receipt of a tax assessment.
These Deferred taxes The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities and their balance sheet classifications, as at December 31, are as follows: December 31, December 31, 2010 2009 $M $M Deferred tax assets: Deferred revenue 9.2 24.6 Inventory and warranty provisions 33.1 28.4 Losses carried forward including tax credits 314.3 278.5 Provisions for sales deductions and doubtful accounts 101.3 66.9 Restructuring 1.1 1.5 Intangible assets 14.7 17.8 Share-based compensation 42.5 45.0 Excess of tax value over book value of fixed assets 24.3 26.4 Other 28.6 26.1 Gross deferred tax assets 569.1 515.2 Less: valuation allowance 200.0 149.2 369.1 366.0 Deferred tax liabilities: Intangible assets 433.2 448.4 Net deferred tax liabilities 64.1 82.4 Balance sheet classifications: Deferred tax assetscurrent 182.0 135.8 Deferred tax assetsnon-current 110.4 79.0 Deferred tax liabilitiescurrent 4.4 2.9 Deferred tax  352.1 294.3 64.1 82.4 At December 31, 2010, the Group had a valuation allowance At December 31, 2010, based upon a consideration in combination of $200.0 million 2009: $149.2 million to reduce its deferred tax of the profit history of the relevant affiliates, projections of future taxable assets to estimated realizable value.
These valuation allowances related income over the periods in which temporary differences are anticipated primarily to operating loss, capital loss and tax-credit carry-forwards to reverse, any restrictions on uses of loss carry-forwards and prudent in Republic of Ireland 2010: $77.2 million: 2009: $56.3 million : and feasible tax-planning strategies, management believes it is more the US 2010: $44.5 million: 2009: $40.6 million : Germany 2010: likely than not that the Group will realize the benefits of these deductible $49.0 million: 2009: $24.2 million : and other foreign tax jurisdictions differences, net of the valuation allowances.
of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted in the future if these factors are revised in future periods.
The net increase in valuation allowances of $50.8 million is principally due to increases of $45.9 million and $4.9 million in respect of losses and other temporary differences in European jurisdictions and US affiliates outside the Groups US consolidated tax group, respectively, as the Groups management considers that there is insufficient future taxable income, taxable temporary differences and feasible taxplanning strategies to overcome cumulative losses and therefore it is more likely than not that the relevant deferred tax assets will not be realized in full.
Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:29 Page 115 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 115 29 TAXATION continued The approximate NOLs, capital losses and tax credit carry-forwards as at December 31, are as follows: 2010 2009 $M $M US federal tax NOLs 41.9 31.2 US state tax NOLs 47.8 57.0 UK NOLs 101.3 103.3 Republic of Ireland NOLs 515.8 319.9 Foreign tax jurisdictions 471.5 168.4 R&D tax credits 106.2 124.6 The NOLs, capital losses and tax credit carry-forwards shown above have the following expiration dates: December 31, 2010 $M Within 1 year 3.0 Within 1 to 2 years 0.1 Within 4 to 5 years 1.0 Within 5 to 6 years 1.7 After 6 years 200.0 Indefinitely 1,078.6 At December 31, 2010 the Group had not recorded deferred taxes on approximately $5.8 billion 2009: $6.2 billion of un-remitted earnings of the Groups foreign subsidiaries.
At December 31, 2010 these earnings are expected to be permanently reinvested overseas.
It is not practical to compute the estimated deferred tax liability on these earnings.
30 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS The following table shows the total share-based compensation expense see below for types of share-based awards included in the consolidated statements of income: 2010 2009 2008 $M $M $M Cost of product sales 7.0 4.4 3.9 Research and development 16.8 20.1 18.9 Selling, general and administrative 38.4 41.2 42.4 Total 62.2 65.7 65.2 Less tax 17.2 19.4 15.3 45.0 46.3 49.9 There were no capitalized share-based compensation costs at December 31, 2010 and 2009.
At December 31, 2010 $94.8 million 2009: $74.3 million of total unrecognized compensation cost relating to non-vested awards is expected to be recognized over a period of 3 years.
At December 31, 2010 $73.1 million 2009: $52.5 million of total unrecognized compensation cost relating to non-vested in the money awards, is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.8 years 2009: 1.9 years.
The total fair value of in the money awards vested during the period at December 31, 2010 was $49.3 million 2009: $24.9 million.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:29 Page 116 116 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 30 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS continued The Amendments had the following principal effect on the terms and conditions of SARs and PSAs: i the contractual life of SARs has been Share-based compensation plans extended from five to seven years, ii the vesting period of SARs and The Group grants stock-settled share appreciation rights SARs PSAs granted to employees below the level of Executive Vice President and performance share awards over Ordinary Shares and ADSs to allows for graded vesting rather than mandatory cliff vesting, and Directors and employees under the Shire Portfolio Share Plan Parts A iii awards granted to Executive Directors contain performance and B to Executive Directors and employees.
In the year to December conditions based on growth in return on invested capital ROIC 31, 2010 the Group amended the rules of the Shire Portfolio Share and earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortization Plan effective on a prospective basis for newly granted awards the as defined in the Amendments Non GAAP EBITDA, rather than the Amendments.
After the Amendment SARs and PSAs granted under previous market based condition of total shareholder return.
the Shire Portfolio Share Plan Part A and B to Executive Directors are exercisable subject to performance and service criteria.
The Group also operates an Employee Share Purchase Plan and a Sharesave Scheme.
The following awards were outstanding as at December 31, 2010: Expiration Compensation Number period from type of awards date of issue Vesting period Portfolio Share PlanPart A SARs 26,889,520 5 to 7 years 3 years cliff and graded vesting, subject to market or performance criteria for Executive Directors only Sharesave Scheme Stock options 338,314 6 months 3 or 5 years after vesting Stock Purchase Plan Stock options 702,878 On vesting 1 to 5 months date Legacy Plans Stock options 1,614,872 7 to 10 years 3 to 10 years, subject to market or performance criteria Stock-settled SARs and 29,545,584 stock options Portfolio Share PlanPart B Performance 6,391,007 3 years 3 years cliff and graded vesting, share awards subject to market or performance criteria for Executive Directors only Performance share awards 6,391,007 Number of awards are stated in terms of Ordinary Share equivalents.
Stock settled SARs and stock options In respect of any award made to Executive Directors subsequent to Amendments performance criteria are based on Non GAAP EBITDA a Portfolio Share PlanPart A and ROIC targets.
These performance measures provide increased Stock-settled share appreciation rights granted under the Portfolio alignment to the core activities and strategy of the Group.
Share PlanPart A prior to the Amendments are exercisable subject to certain market and service criteria.
Stock-settled share appreciation Awards granted to employees below Executive Director level are rights granted under the Portfolio Share PlanPart A subsequent not subject to market or performance conditions, and are only subject to the Amendments are exercisable subject to performance and to service conditions.
Once awards have vested, participants will have until the fifth In respect of any awards made to Executive Directors prior to the anniversary for awards granted prior to the Amendments or seventh Amendments the market conditions are based on relative total anniversary for awards granted subsequent to the Amendments shareholder return.
Vesting of awards granted to Executive Directors of the date of grant to exercise their awards.
will depend on relative total shareholder return performance against two comparator groups.
For one-third of the award, the comparator b Shire Sharesave Scheme Sharesave Scheme group will be the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 constituents Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are granted with an excluding financial institutions and for two-thirds of the award the exercise price equal to 80% of the mid-market price on the day before comparator group will be a group of international companies from the invitations are issued to employees.
Employees may enter into three pharmaceutical sector.
In addition, before awards granted to Executive or five-year savings contracts.
Directors will vest, the Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that the underlying performance of the Group is sufficient to justify c Shire Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock Purchase Plan 1 this.
Where median performance is achieved, 33 3% of stock-settled Under the Stock Purchase Plan, options are granted with an exercise share appreciation rights will vest, rising on a straight-line price equal to 85% of the fair market value of a share on the enrollment basis to full vesting at upper quartile performance.
date the first day of the offering period or the exercise date the last day of the offering period, whichever is the lower.
Employees agree to save for a period up to 27 months.
Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:29 Page 117 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 117 30 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS continued d Legacy plansprincipally the Shire 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme Options granted under this scheme were subject to certain performance criteria, which were based on the Groups share price or diluted EPS growth compared to a fixed growth rate.
At December 31, 2010 all stock options outstanding under this scheme had met the required conditions and were exercisable.
A summary of the status of the Groups SARs and stock options as at December 31, 2010 and of the related transactions during the periods then ended is presented below: Weighted-average Number Intrinsic value Year to December 31, 2010 exercise price of shares M Outstanding as at beginning of period 8.72 34,382,933 Granted 14.20 8,875,087 Exercised 4.43 11,324,216 Expired 10.96 2,388,220 Outstanding as at end of period 10.36 29,545,584 149.8 Exercisable as at end of period 7.96 8,259,830 61.7 The weighted-average grant date fair value of SARs and stock options granted in the year ended December 31, 2010 was 3.97.
SARs and stock options outstanding as at December 31, 2010 have the following characteristics: Weighted-average Weighted-average Weighted-average exercise price Number exercise price Exercise remaining of awards of awards of awards prices contractual term outstanding exercisable exercisable Number of awards outstanding Years 904,224 3.386.00 7.1 5.27 892,884 5.3 20,906,669 6.0111.00 2.3 9.29 5,984,914 7.6 7,734,691 11.0115.87 7.6 13.9 1,382,032 11.1 29,545,584 8,259,830 Performance shares of international companies from the pharmaceutical sector.
In addition, before awards granted to Executive Directors will vest, the Committee Portfolio Share PlanPart B must be satisfied that the underlying performance of the Group Performance share awards granted to Executive Directors under the is sufficient to justify this.
Where median performance is achieved, 1 Portfolio Share PlanPart B are exercisable subject to certain market, 33 3% of performance shares will vest, rising on a straight-line basis performance and service criteria.
to full vesting at upper quartile performance.
In respect of any award granted to Executive Directors prior to In respect of any award granted to Executive Directors subsequent the Amendments the market conditions are based on relative total to the Amendments, the performance criteria are based on Non GAAP shareholder return.
Vesting will depend on relative total shareholder EBITDA and ROIC targets.
return performance against two comparator groups.
For one-third of an award, the comparator group will be the Financial Times Stock Awards granted to employees below Executive Director level are not Exchange 100 constituents excluding financial institutions and subject to market or performance conditions, and are only subject for two-thirds of the award the comparator group will be a group to service conditions.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:29 Page 118 118 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 30 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS continued A summary of the status of the Groups performance share awards as at December 31, 2010 and of the related transactions during the periods then ended is presented below: Aggregate Weighted-average Number intrinsic value remaining life Performance share awards of shares M Years Outstanding as at beginning of period 5,209,621 Granted 2,123,414 Exercised 568,608 Expired 373,420 Outstanding as at end of period 6,391,007 98.6 2.7 Exercisable as at end of period n a n a The weighted-average grant date fair value of performance share awards granted in the year to December 31, 2010 is 14.47.
Exercises of employee share-based awards Valuation methodologies The total intrinsic values of share-based awards exercised for the The Group estimates the fair value of its share-based awards using years to December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $70.3 million, a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Key input assumptions used to $43.8 million and $23.8 million, respectively.
The total cash received estimate the fair value of sharebased awards include the grant price from employees as a result of employee share option exercises for of the award, the expected stock-based award term, volatility of the the period to December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was approximately Groups share price, the risk-free rate and the Groups dividend yield.
$11.2 million, $14.6 million and $11.4 million, respectively.
In connection The Group believes that the valuation technique and the approach with these exercises, the excess tax benefit deficit credited charged utilized to develop the underlying assumptions are appropriate in to additional paid-in capital for the years to December 31, 2010, 2009 estimating the fair values of Shires stock-based awards.
Estimates and 2008 was $2.9 million credit, $16.8 million credit and $3.8 million of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the charge respectively.
value ultimately realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness The Group will settle future employee share award exercises with of the original estimates of fair value made by the Group under either newly listed common shares or with shares held in the ESOT.
guidance issued by the FASB on share-based payment transactions.
The number of shares to be purchased by the ESOT during 2011 will be dependent on the number of employee share awards granted and exercised during the year and Shire plcs share price.
At December 31, 2010 the ESOT held 4.4 million Ordinary Shares and 3.2 million ADSs.
The fair value of share awards granted was estimated using the following assumptions: Period ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 1 Risk-free interest rate 0.53.0% 0.52.7% 1.35.3% Expected dividend yield 00.6% 00.7% 00.5% Expected life 15 years 34 years 34 years Weighted-average volatility 32% 33% 29% Forfeiture rate 57% 5% 5% 1 Risk-free interest rate is for UK and US grants.
The following assumptions were used to value share-based awards:expected lifeestimated based on the contractual term of the awards and the effects of employees expected exercise and postrisk-free interest ratefor awards granted over ADSs, the US vesting employment termination behaviour: Federal Reserve treasury constant maturities rate with a term consistent with the expected life of the award is used.
For  expected volatilitymeasured using historical granted over Ordinary Shares, the yield on UK government bonds daily price changes of the Groups share price over the respective with a term consistent with the expected life of the award is used: expected life of the share-based awards at the date of the award: and expected dividend yieldmeasured as the average annualized dividend estimated to be paid by the Group over the expected life the forfeiture rate is estimated using historical trends of the number of the award as a percentage of the share price at the grant date: of awards forfeited prior to vesting.
Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:29 Page 119 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 119 31 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES All subsidiary undertakings of Shire plc are 100% beneficially owned directly or indirectly and are all consolidated in the consolidated financial statements of Shire plc.
Subsidiary undertaking Jurisdiction of incorporation 3829359 Canada Inc. Canada Jerini AG Germany Jerini Holding Limited Malta Jerini Ophthalmic Holding GmbH Germany Jerini Ophthalmic, Inc. United States Jerini Trading Limited Malta Jerini US, Inc. United States JPT Peptide Technologies, Inc. United States Monmouth Pharmaceuticals Limited United Kingdom Movetis GmbH Germany Movetis Limited United Kingdom Pharma International Insurance Limited Republic of Ireland Rybar Laboratories Limited United Kingdom Shire 2005 Investments Limited Cayman Islands Shire Acquisition, Inc. Canada Shire AG Switzerland Shire Australia Pty Limited Australia Shire Belgium BVBA Belgium Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings United Kingdom Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings Ireland Limited Jersey Shire Biopharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Republic of Ireland Shire Biopharmaceuticals Ireland No.
2 Limited Republic of Ireland Shire Canada, Inc. Canada Shire Denmark ApS Denmark Shire Deutschland GmbH Germany Shire Deutschland Investments GmbH Germany Shire Development, Inc. United States Shire Europe Finance United Kingdom Shire Europe Limited United Kingdom Shire Executive Services LLC United States Shire Farmacutica Brasil LTDA Brazil Shire Finance Limited Cayman Islands Shire France S. A. France Shire Global Finance United Kingdom Shire GmbH Germany Shire Hellas Pharmaceuticals Import Export and Marketing S. A. Greece Shire Holdings Europe B. V. The Netherlands Shire Holdings Europe Limited United Kingdom Shire Holdings Europe No.
2 S. a. r. l. Luxembourg Shire Holdings Ireland Limited Republic of Ireland Shire Holdings Ireland No.
2 Limited Republic of Ireland Shire Holdings Limited Bermuda Shire Holdings Luxembourg S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire Holdings UK Canada Limited United Kingdom Shire Holdings UK Limited United Kingdom Shire Holdings US AG United States Shire Human Genetic Therapies Canada Inc. Canada Shire Human Genetic Therapies AB Sweden Shire Human Genetic Therapies Limited United Kingdom Shire Human Genetic Therapies S. A. Argentina Shire Human Genetic Therapies Securities Corporation United States Shire Human Genetic Therapies UK Limited United Kingdom Shire Human Genetic Therapies, Inc. United States Shire Incorporated United States Shire Intellectual Property 2 SRL Barbados Shire Intellectual Property Ireland Limited Republic of Ireland Shire Intellectual Property SRL Barbados Shire International Licensing BV The Netherlands Shire Investments & Finance U. K. Company United Kingdom Shire IP Services Corporation Canada 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:29 Page 120 120 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 31 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES continued Subsidiary undertaking Jurisdiction of incorporation Shire Italia S. p. A. Italy Shire Jersey Limited Jersey Shire LLC United States Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Property No.
2 S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Property S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire-Movetis NV Belgium Shire Pharmaceutical Contracts Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceutical Development, Inc. United States Shire Pharmaceutical Development Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceutical Holdings Ireland Limited Republic of Ireland Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Holdings Limited Malta Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Limited Malta Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Trading Ireland Republic of Ireland Shire Pharmaceutical Investments 2008 Republic of Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Group United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals Iberica S. L. Spain Shire Pharmaceuticals, Inc. United States Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments British Virgin Islands Limited Virgin Islands, British Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments 2007 Republic of Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Republic of Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals Mexico SA fide CV Mexico Shire Pharmaceuticals Portugal, Lda Portugal Shire Pharmaceuticals Services Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals Trading Limited Company Turkey Shire Polska Sp.
z. o. o. Poland Shire Properties US United States Shire Regulatory, Inc. United States Shire Supplies U. S. LLC United States Shire Sweden AB Sweden Shire UK Investments Limited United Kingdom Shire US Holdings, Inc. United States Shire US, Inc. United States Shire US Investments United Kingdom Shire US Manufacturing, Inc. United States Sparkleflame Limited United Kingdom Tanaud International BV The Netherlands Tanaud Ireland Inc. Republic of Ireland The Endocrine Centre Limited United Kingdom TKT Argentina S. R. L. Argentina Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:29 Page 121 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 121 32 AUDITORS REMUNERATION The ACR Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit and non-audit services, including tax advisory and compliance services, provided by the Groups auditors, Deloitte LLP, the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditor.
In recognition of the importance of maintaining the independence of Deloitte LLP, a process for pre-approval has been in place since July 1, 2002 and has continued through to the end of the period covered by this Report.
The following table provides an analysis of the amount paid to the Groups auditors, Deloitte LLP, all fees having been pre-approved by the ACR Committee: 2010 2009 Year to December 31, $M $M 1 Audit fees 3.4 3.4 2 Audit-related fees 0.2 3 Tax fees 0.1 0.3 Total fees 3.5 3.9 1 Audit fees consisted of audit work only the Independent Registered Public Accountant can reasonably be expected to perform, such as statutory audits.
2 Audit related fees consist of work generally only the Independent Registered Public Accountant can reasonably be expected to perform, such as procedures relating to regulatory filings.
3 Tax fees consisted principally of assistance with matters related to compliance, planning and advice in various tax jurisdictions.
33 AGGREGATE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The following table gives details of the aggregate remuneration paid to Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors including the value of the exercise of options, SAR Awards and vesting of PSA Awards: 2010 2009 $000 $000 Emoluments 5,600 5,508 Money purchase pension contributions 529 674 Sub-total of annual emoluments 6,129 6,182 1 Other income arising from release exercise of long-term incentives Gains on exercise of share options and SAR Awards and release of PSA Awards 14,286 22,448 Gains on the release of EAIP Awards 1,183 1,904 2 Total Emoluments and other income arising from long-term incentives 21,598 30,534 1 Includes the value of shares that were released under long-term plans and gains realised in these years.
2 For the purpose of this table amounts denominated in Pounds sterling have been converted to US dollar amounts at the average exchange rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 of 1:$1.5459 and for 2009 of 1: $1.5647.
