FinAnciAl stAtements siGniFicAnt AccoUntinG Policies s ignificant accounting policies for the 53 weeks ended 18 september 2010 Associated British Foods plc the company is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
the consolidated financial statements of the company for the 53 weeks ended 18 september 2010 comprise those of the company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the group and the groups interest in associates and jointly controlled entities.
the financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 9 november 2010. the consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with international Financial Reporting standards as adopted by the eU Adopted iFRs.
the company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
these are presented on pages 110 to 114.
Basis of preparation the financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
they are prepared on the historical cost basis except that biological assets and certain financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
Assets classified as held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
the preparation of financial statements under Adopted iFRs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
the estimates and associated assumptions are based on experience.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Judgements made by management in the application of Adopted iFRs that have a significant effect on the financial statements, and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment next year, are discussed in note 30. the estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a regular basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised from the period in which the estimates are revised.
the accounting policies set out below have been applied to all periods presented, except where detailed otherwise.
details of new accounting standards which came into force in the year are set out at the end of this note.
none of them required restatement of primary statements in comparative periods, nor had any significant impact on the groups consolidated results or financial position, other than certain presentational changes.
the financial statements of the group are prepared to the saturday nearest to 15 september.
Accordingly, these financial statements have been prepared for the 53 weeks ended 18 september 2010 prior period for the 52 weeks ended 12 september 2009. to avoid delay in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, the results of certain subsidiaries are included up to 31 August 2010. the results of illovo are included for the period to 30 september 2010 in line with illovos local reporting date.
Adjustments are made as appropriate for significant transactions or events occurring between 31 August and 30 september.
the groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business review on pages 6 to 27. the financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on pages 28 and 29. in addition, the risk management review on pages 42 to 44 and note 25 on pages 93 to 105 provide details of the groups policy on managing its financial and commodity risks.
the group has considerable financial resources, good access to debt markets, a diverse range of businesses and a wide geographic spread.
it is therefore well placed to manage business risks successfully despite the current economic uncertainty.
Basis of consolidation the consolidated financial statements include the results of the company and all of its subsidiaries from the date that control commences to the date that control ceases.
the consolidated financial statements also include the groups share of the after-tax results of its jointly controlled entities and associates on an equityaccounted basis from the point at which joint control or significant influence respectively commences, to the date that it ceases.
subsidiaries are entities controlled by the company.
control exists when the company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
changes in the groups ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for within equity.
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the group has joint control, typically established by contractual agreement.
Associates are those entities in which the group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 61 F inAnciAl stAtements siGniFicAnt AccoUntinG Policies s ignificant accounting policies continued for the 53 weeks ended 18 september 2010 Business combinations on the acquisition of a business or an interest in a joint venture or associate, fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition.
Adjustments to fair values include those made to bring accounting policies into line with those of the group.
Provisional fair values are finalised within twelve months of the business combination date and are adjusted by restatement of the comparative period in which the acquisition occurred.
non-controlling interests are measured at the proportionate share of the net identifiable assets acquired.
For business combinations executed in periods ending on or before 12 september 2009: Goodwill arising on a business combination was the excess of the carrying amount of any existing equity interest plus the fair value of consideration payable for the additional stake over the fair value of the share of net identifiable assets and liabilities acquired including separately identified intangible assets, net of non-controlling interests.
total consideration included acquisition costs.
contingent consideration was measured at fair value at the date of the business combination.
subsequent changes to contingent consideration other than settlements are accounted for as adjustments to goodwill.
the following changes apply to business combinations executed in periods beginning on or after 13 september 2009: existing equity interests in the acquiree are remeasured to fair value as at the date of the business combination, with any resulting gain or loss taken to the income statement.
Goodwill arising on a business combination is the excess of the remeasured carrying amount of any existing equity interest plus the fair value of consideration payable for the additional stake over the fair value of the share of net identifiable assets and liabilities acquired including separately identified intangible assets, net of non-controlling interests.
total consideration does not include acquisition costs, which are expensed as incurred.
contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the date of the business combination, classified as asset, liability or equity usually as a liability, and subsequently accounted for in line with that classification.
changes in contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability resulting other than from the finalisation of provisional fair values are accounted for in the income statement.
Revenue Revenue represents the invoiced value of sales made to customers after deduction of discounts and sales taxes.
discounts include sales rebates, price discounts, customer incentives, certain promotional activities and similar items.
Revenue does not include sales between group companies.
Revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of the underlying products have been substantially transferred to the customer, and when it can be reliably measured.
Revenue from sale of goods is generally recognised on dispatch or delivery to customers, dependent on shipping terms.
discounts are provided for as a reduction to revenue at the time a sale is recorded, based on managements best estimate of the amount required to meet claims by customers.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the effective interest method.
For qualifying items of property, plant and equipment, where the commencement date for capitalisation was on or after 13 september 2009, the group capitalises borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of those qualifying assets as part of their cost.
Previously, the group expensed all borrowing costs as incurred.
interest capitalised is taxed under current or deferred tax as appropriate.
Exceptional items exceptional items are defined as items of income and expenditure which are material and unusual in nature and which are considered to be of such significance that they require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement in accordance with iAs 1.
Foreign currencies in individual companies, transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Any resulting differences are taken to the income statement.
on consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign operations that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date.
income and expense items are translated into sterling at weighted average rates of exchange other than substantial transactions, which are translated at the rate of exchange on the date of the transaction.
differences arising from the retranslation of opening net assets of group companies, together with differences arising from the restatement of the net results of group companies from average or actual rates to rates at the balance sheet date, are taken to the translation reserve in equity.
62 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FinAnciAl stAtements siGniFicAnt AccoUntinG Policies Pensions and other post-employment benefits the groups principal pension funds are defined benefit plans.
in addition the group has defined contribution plans and other unfunded post-employment liabilities.
For defined benefit plans, the amount charged in the income statement is the cost of benefits accruing to employees over the year, plus any benefit improvements granted to members by the group during the year.
it also includes a credit equivalent to the groups expected return on pension plan assets over the year, offset by a charge equal to the expected interest on plan liabilities over the year.
For each of the groups plans, the difference between the market value of assets and the present value of liabilities is disclosed as an asset or liability in the balance sheet.
Any related deferred tax to the extent it is recoverable is disclosed separately in the balance sheet.
Any actuarial gains or losses are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
surpluses on defined benefit plans are recognised only to the extent that they are recoverable.
movements in irrecoverable surpluses are recognised immediately as an actuarial gain or loss in other comprehensive income.
contributions payable by the group in respect of defined contribution plans are charged to operating profit as incurred.
other unfunded post-employment liabilities are accounted for in the same way as defined benefit pension plans.
Share-based payments: employee benefits the share incentive Plan allows executives to receive allocations of shares to be distributed subject to attainment of certain financial performance criteria and typically after a three-year performance period.
the fair value of the shares to be awarded is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
the fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the executives become unconditionally entitled to the shares.
the fair value of the shares allocated is measured taking into account the terms and conditions under which the shares were allocated.
the amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares that vest.
the share option scheme 1994 and executive share option scheme 2000 allow executives to acquire shares of the company.
the fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
the fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the executives become unconditionally entitled to the options.
the fair value of the options granted is measured using a binomial lattice model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
the amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Income tax income tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items taken directly to other comprehensive income.
current tax is the tax expected to be payable on taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted during the period, together with any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
the following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than those acquired in a business combination: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
the amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
Financial assets and liabilities Financial asset and financial liabilities, except for other non-current investments, other current investments and derivative financial instruments, are measured initially at fair value, plus directly attributable transaction costs, and thereafter at amortised cost.
other non-current investments classified under other non-current receivables comprise available-for-sale investments which are measured at market prices where available.
Where quoted market prices in an active market are not available, and where fair value cannot be reliably measured, unquoted equity instruments are measured at cost less impairment.
other current investments classified under other financial assets are designated as at fair value through profit and loss because they are managed and their performance is evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with the groups risk management and investment strategy.
Cash and cash equivalents cash and cash equivalents comprise bank and cash balances, call deposits and short-term investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the cash flow statement.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 63 F inAnciAl stAtements siGniFicAnt AccoUntinG Policies s ignificant accounting policies continued for the 53 weeks ended 18 september 2010 Derivative financial instruments derivative financial instruments are used to manage the groups economic exposure to financial and commodity risks.
the principal instruments used are forward foreign exchange contracts, futures, swaps or options the hedging instrument.
the group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet, within other financial assets and liabilities, at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into, and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair value is based on market prices or rates, or calculated using either discounted cash flow or option pricing models, consistently applied for similar types of instrument.
these calculations take into consideration managements best estimates and assumptions based on market-related data at the balance sheet date.
the gain or loss on subsequent fair value measurement is recognised in the income statement unless the derivative qualifies for hedge accounting, when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
the purpose of hedge accounting is to mitigate the impact on the groups income statement of changes in foreign exchange or interest rates and commodity prices, by matching the impact of the hedged risk and the hedging instrument in the income statement.
hedge accounting is applied to derivatives that are expected to be effective in offsetting the changes in cash flows of highly probable forecast transactions the hedged item.
to qualify for hedge accounting, the hedging relationship must meet several conditions with respect to documentation, probability of occurrence, hedge effectiveness and reliability of measurement.
At inception of the transaction, the group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
this includes linking all derivatives designated as hedges to specific firm commitments or forecast transactions.
the group also documents its assessment, both at inception and at least quarterly thereafter, as to whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions have been, and are likely to continue to be, highly effective.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of the gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised through other comprehensive income in the hedging reserve.
the ineffective part of the gain or loss is recognised immediately within operating profit in the income statement.
When the forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative gains and losses previously recognised in the hedging reserve are included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
otherwise, gains and losses previously recognised in the hedging reserve are removed and recognised in the income statement at the same time as the hedged transaction.
hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, for forecast transactions, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in the hedging reserve is retained in the hedging reserve until the forecast transaction occurs.
Gains or losses on hedging instruments that relate to an underlying exposure that no longer exists are taken directly to the income statement.
hedges of the groups net investment in foreign operations take the form of borrowings in the currency of the investments net assets.
the group economically hedges foreign currency exposure on recognised monetary assets and liabilities but does not normally seek hedge accounting under iAs 39.
Any derivatives that the group holds to hedge this exposure are classified as held for trading within other financial assets and liabilities.
changes in the fair value of such derivatives and the foreign exchange gains and losses arising on the related monetary items are recognised within operating profit in the income statement.
Intangible assets other than goodwill non-operating intangible assets are intangible assets that arise on business combinations and typically include intellectual property, brands, customer relationships and grower agreements.
operating intangible assets are intangible assets acquired in the ordinary course of business and typically include software costs and development expenditure.
intangible assets other than goodwill that have a finite life are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment charges.
those that do not have a finite life are stated at cost less impairment charges and are subject to an annual impairment test.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement within operating costs on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from the date they are available for use.
the estimated useful lives are generally deemed to be no longer than: customer relationships up to 5 years Grower agreements up to 10 years technology and brands up to 15 years 64 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FinAnciAl stAtements siGniFicAnt AccoUntinG Policies Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
For business combinations that occurred between 3 september 2004 and 12 september 2009, goodwill represented the excess of the carrying amount of any existing equity interest plus the fair value of consideration payable for the additional stake over the fair value of the share of net identifiable assets and liabilities acquired including separately identified intangible assets, net of non-controlling interests.
For business combinations prior to this date, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, represented by the net book value recorded under previous GAAP.
the classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 3 september 2004 were not reconsidered on transition to iFRs.
For business combinations that have occurred on or after 13 september 2009, goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of any existing equity interest plus the fair value of consideration payable for the additional stake over the fair value of the share of net identifiable assets and liabilities acquired including separately identified intangible assets, net of non-controlling interests.
certain commercial assets associated with the acquisition of a business are not capable of being recognised in the acquisition balance sheet.
in such circumstances, goodwill is recognised, which may include, but is not necessarily limited to, workforce assets and the benefits of expected future synergies.
Goodwill is not amortised but is subject to an annual impairment review.
Research and development expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible.
expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment charges.
Impairment the carrying amounts of the groups intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
if any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill and intangibles without a finite life, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
An impairment charge is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
impairment charges are recognised in the income statement.
impairment charges recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit or group of units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit or group of units on a pro rata basis.
Calculation of recoverable amount the recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
in assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Reversals of impairment An impairment charge in respect of goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
in respect of other assets, an impairment charge is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine recoverable amount.
An impairment charge is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment charge had been recognised.
Property, plant and equipment items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment charges.
depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment sufficient to reduce them to their estimated residual value.
the estimated useful lives are generally deemed to be no longer than: Freehold buildings 66 years Plant and equipment, fixtures and fittings sugar factories, yeast plants and mills 20 years other operations 12 years vehicles 10 years Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 65 F inAnciAl stAtements siGniFicAnt AccoUntinG Policies s ignificant accounting policies continued for the 53 weeks ended 18 september 2010 Leases A lease is an agreement whereby the lessor conveys to the lessee, in return for a payment or a series of payments, the right to use a specific asset for an agreed period of time.
Where the group is a lessee and has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset, the arrangement is considered a finance lease.
Finance leases are recognised as assets of the group within property, plant and equipment at the inception of the lease at the lower of fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
depreciation on leased assets is charged to the income statement on the same basis as owned assets.
Payments made under finance leases are apportioned between capital repayments and interest expense charged to the income statement.
other leases where the group is a lessee are treated as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
the benefit of lease incentives is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Where the group is a lessor and has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset to a lessee, the arrangement is considered a finance lease.
For finance leases, capital amounts due from lessees are recognised as financial assets of the group within trade and other receivables at the inception of the lease at the amount of the net investment in the lease after making provision for bad and doubtful debts.
Payments received under finance leases are apportioned between capital repayments and interest income credited to the income statement.
other leases where the group is a lessor are treated as operating leases.
For operating leases, the asset is capitalised within property, plant and equipment and depreciated over its useful economic life.
Payments received under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Biological assets Biological assets are measured at fair value less costs to sell.
cane roots and growing cane are stated at fair value determined on the following bases: cane roots the escalated average cost, using appropriate inflation-related indices, of each year of planting adjusted for the remaining expected life.
expected useful lives are currently ten years in south Africa, seven years in Zambia and eight years in each of the other countries of operation.
Growing cane the estimated sucrose content valued at the estimated sucrose price for the following season, less the estimated costs for harvesting and transport.
When harvested, growing cane is transferred to inventory at fair value less costs to sell.
other biological assets include livestock.
Inventories inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
cost includes raw materials, direct labour and expenses and an appropriate proportion of production and other overheads.
cost is calculated on a first-in first-out basis.
Cash flow statement the group has amended the way in which it presents adjustments relating to biological assets in the consolidated cash flow statement, in the reconciliation between profit before taxation and cash generated from operations.
Previously the change in fair value mainly attributable to growth of sugar cane was shown as a separate adjustment, and the impact of harvested cane was shown in the inventory movement.
the impact of these two items is now shown net as one separate adjustment, as this better presents the impact of biological assets on the cash flows of the group.
Prior period amounts have been amended to reflect this change.
there is no impact on cash generated from operations as a result of this change.
New accounting policies the group has applied the revised version of iAs 1 Presentation of Financial Statements which became effective on 13 september 2009. the standard addresses presentational and terminology issues only.
the principal changes are as follows: the consolidated statement of changes in equity becomes a primary statement.
Previously, this information was included as part of a note to the financial statements: changes in total equity resulting from transactions with owners are detailed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity, and are presented separately from non-owner changes in equity: and income and expenses are presented separately from transactions with owners in two primary statements the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income which details the components of other comprehensive income.
the consolidated statement of comprehensive income replaces the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, which is no longer presented.
these two statements together comprise total comprehensive income.
the standard also introduces some changes in terminology, many of which are voluntary and have not been adopted.
however, a small number of changes have been incorporated, including the names of the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, as described above.
minority interests are now referred to as non-controlling interests.
66 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FinAnciAl stAtements siGniFicAnt AccoUntinG Policies comparative information has been re-presented so that it conforms with the revised standard.
since the change in accounting policy only impacts presentation, there is no impact on reported profit, earnings per share or net assets.
the group has applied the revised version of iFRs 3 Business Combinations and iAs 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements with effect from 13 september 2009. the standards apply prospectively to all business combinations executed from that date.
Business combinations executed prior to that date, and the resolution of related issues, are dealt with under the preceding version of the standards as previously applied by the group.
the revised standards introduce changes in a number of areas, the most significant of which are as follows: non-controlling interests may be measured either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the fair value of the net identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, with the choice available individually for each business combination.
in the past, the group measured non-controlling interests at the proportionate share of the fair value of the net identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, and it is expected that this will remain the case: for business combinations achieved in stages, the group is required at the acquisition date to remeasure to fair value any existing equity interest in the acquiree, with any resulting gain or loss taken to the income statement.
the group did not previously perform any such remeasurement: contingent consideration continues to be recognised at fair value at the date of the business combination.
Post-acquisition changes to contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability for instance resulting from revised expectations of deferred consideration payments are required to be recognised in the income statement, where previously they were treated as an adjustment to goodwill: contingent liabilities are required to be recorded at fair value at acquisition, where previously there was no requirement to record them on the balance sheet: acquisition costs no longer comprise part of consideration, and must be expensed as incurred: and changes in ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for within equity, which is consistent with the groups previous treatment.
since the revised standards apply only prospectively to new business combinations, their implementation does not result in restatement of any prior periods.
the group did not complete any business combinations in the period.
the group has applied Amendments to iFRs 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments with effect from 13 september 2009. the amendments require enhanced disclosures about fair value measurement methods and about liquidity risk and the management thereof.
the disclosures around fair value measurement relate to valuation methods applied to financial instruments carried at fair value in the balance sheet.
they require classification of such instruments using a three-level hierarchy that ranks the inputs to valuation techniques according to their use of both objective evidence and subjective judgements.
these new disclosures are given at the end of section a in note 25. the disclosures on liquidity management are an enhancement of existing requirements and are given in section h of note 25. comparative information in the first year of application is not required.
since the amendments relate to disclosure only, no restatements of profit, earnings or net assets are required.
the group has applied iFRs 8 Operating Segments which became effective on 13 september 2009 and has been applied retrospectively.
iFRs 8 requires separate reporting of segmental information for operating segments, and replaces iAs 14 Segment Reporting.
operating segments are determined based on the information that is presented to the board of directors, which is the chief operating decision maker as defined in the standard.
since the application of this new standard affects only disclosure and presentation, there is no impact on reported profit, earnings per share or net assets, and no material restatement of prior periods is required, other than minor presentational changes.
the group has applied the amendment to iAs 23 Borrowing Costs with effect from 13 september 2009.
For qualifying items of property, plant and equipment and intangibles, where the commencement date for capitalisation was on or after 13 september 2009, the group capitalises borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of those qualifying assets as part of their cost.
the standard applies prospectively and comparative periods have not been restated.
the general future impact of this standard will be to reduce interest expense at the time of a qualifying assets construction, and to decrease operating profit in future periods when that asset is used, via increased depreciation on the higher cost.
the following standards and interpretations issued by the international Accounting standards Board iAsB or the international Financial Reporting interpretations committee iFRic have not yet been adopted by the group: iFRs 9 Financial Instruments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, not yet endorsed by the eU is the first stage in the ongoing project to replace iAs 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and covers the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities.
the group has not yet concluded on the impact that this standard will have, but it is not expected to be significant.
the group does not consider that any other standards or interpretations issued by the iAsB or the iFRic, either applicable in the current year or not yet applicable, have, or will have, a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 67
