Pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase by 5% per annum or the rate of inflation in the UK, if lower.
Death in service cover of four times salary and spouses pension at the rate of two thirds of the members pension are provided on death.
A salary supplement partially compensates for the HMRC earnings cap on final pensionable salary which continues to apply in the defined benefit plans.
Those commencing employment post-2002 either participate in the defined contribution plan to which the Company contributes 30% of basic salary or they receive a non-pensionable, non-bonusable salary supplement of 30% of basic salary.
Death in service cover of seven times basic salary, of which four times salary is payable as a lump sum, is also provided.
The non-pensionable salary supplement is also available to any executive director orexecutive officer who wishes to opt out of the defined pension plans forfuture service.
Pensions US US based executive directors and executive officers participate in either the defined benefit Smith&Nephew USPension Plan orthe defined contribution US Savings plan 401 K Plus.
Under the US Pension Plan, pensions accrue at an annual rate of approximately one sixty-sixth of final pensionable salary up to a limit based on service of 53% of final pensionable salary.
The plan also provides for a spouses pension at the rate of one half of the members pension on death.
Normal retirement age under the plan is 65.
For executives in the defined benefit US pension plan, a supplementary plan is used to enable benefits to be payable from age 62 without reduction for early retirement.
A supplementary defined contribution plan is used to compensate for the earnings cap imposed by the US Internal Revenue Code and to provide additional retirement benefits.
Shareholding Requirements Across the Group, senior executives are expected to build up and maintain a personal equity stake in the Company.
Executive directors are required to accumulate a personal holding equivalent to 2 times their base salary and executive officers are required to accumulate a personal holding equivalent to 1.5 times their base salary.
Senior executives are also required to accumulate a personal holding at differing levels depending upon their seniority.
These holdings are expected to be accumulated within five years of the later of the date of their joining the company or the date they became eligible to join Senior Executive Share Plans.
The personal equity stake includes ordinary shares or ADRs held by the senior executive or their immediate family members as well as the gain element in any vested but unexercised share options.
The Remuneration Committee will take account of the extent to which these guidelines have been met when making future awards.
Non-executive directors are expected to accumulate a personal holding in the Company equivalent to their annual basic fee within three years of their appointment.
As at 23 February 2011, David Illingworth holds shares to the value of 269% of his base salary and Adrian Hennah holds shares to the value of 190% of his base salary.
Total Reward Composition The split between fixed and variable pay forthe executive directors and executive officers in 2010was as follows: Presenteconomic value of Annual Incentive variable long-term incentives Base Pay fixed earned in respectof 2010 variable Executive directors 25% 32% 43% Executive officers 31% 32% 37% Retirement Arrangements for David Illingworth On 10 February 2011 it was announced that David Illingworth would retire from the Board and as Chief Executive at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 April 2011.
In accordance with the terms of his service contract he will continue to remain an employee of the Company up to 10 August 2011 and will receive the pay and benefits he currently receives.
At the end of his period of employment, the Remuneration  the level of bonus payable if any in respect of his service during 2011.
The treatment of David Illingworths outstanding awards under the Companys annual and long-term incentive plans will be in accordance with the terms of the relevant scheme rules.
Therefore, they will be pro-rated for time and vest at their normal vesting date subject to the applicable performance conditions.
2010Annual Report 65 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement 
