ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The following summarises certain material rights of holders of the Companys Ordinary Shares under the material provisions of the Companys articles of association and English law.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act and the Companys articles of association.
In the following description, a shareholder is the person registered in the Companys register of members as the holder of an OrdinaryShare.
The Companyis incorporated under the name Smith&Nephew plc and is registered in England and Wales with registered number 324357.
The Companys Ordinary Shares may be held in certificated or uncertificated form.
No holder of the Companys shares will be required to make additional contributions of capital in respect of the Companys shares in the future.
In accordance with English law the Companys OrdinaryShares rank equally.
Directors Under the Companys articles of association, a director may not vote in respect of any contract, arrangement, transaction or proposal in which he, or any person connected with him, has any material interest other than by virtue of his interests in securities of, or otherwise in or through, the Company.
This is subject to certain exceptions relating to proposals a indemnifying him in respect of obligations incurred on behalf of the Company, b indemnifying a third party in respect of obligations of the Company for which the director has assumed responsibility under an indemnity or guarantee, c relating to an offer of securities in which he will be interested as an underwriter, d concerning another body corporate in which the director is beneficially interested in less than one percent of the issued shares of any class of shares of such a body corporate, e relating to an employee benefit in which the director will share equally with other employees and f relating to any insurance that the Company is empowered to purchase for the benefit of directors of the Company in respect of actions undertaken as directors and or officers of the Company.
Adirector shall not vote orbe counted in any quorumpresent at a meeting in relation to a resolution on which he is not entitled to vote.
The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount of all monies borrowed after deducting cash and current asset investments by the Company and its subsidiaries shall not exceed the sum of $6,500,000,000.
Any director who has been appointed by the directors since the previous Annual General Meeting of shareholders, either to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional director, holds office only until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and then shall be eligible for re-election by the shareholders.
The other directors retire and are eligible for re-appointment at the third Annual General Meeting after the meeting at which they were last re-appointed.
If not re-appointed a director retiring at a meeting shall retain office until the meeting appoints someone in his place, or if it does not do so, until the conclusion of the meeting.
The directors are subject to removal with or without cause by the Boardorthe shareholders.
Directors are not required to hold any shares of the Companyby way of qualification.
Under the Companys articles of association and English law, a director may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against liabilitieshe maysustain orincur in the execution of his duties.
Rights Attaching to Ordinary Shares Under English law, dividends are payable on the Companys Ordinary Shares only out of profits available for distribution, as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom and by the Companies Act 2006.
Holders of the Companys Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive final dividends as may be declared by the directors and approved by the shareholders in general meeting, rateable according to the amounts paid up on such shares, provided that the dividend cannot exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
The Companys Board of Directors may declare such interim dividends as appear to them to be justified by the Companys financial position.
If authorised by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders, the Board may also direct payment of a dividend in whole or in part by the distribution of specific assets and in particular of paid up shares ordebentures of the Company.
Any dividend unclaimed after 12 years from the date the dividend was declared, or became due for payment, will be forfeited and will revert to the Company.
There were no  the rights of shareholders under the Articles during 2010.
2010Annual Report 147 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement  Voting Rights of Ordinary Shares Voting at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless a poll, which is a written vote, is duly demanded and held.
On a show of hands, every shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares held.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for each Ordinary Share held by that shareholder.
A poll may be demanded by any of the following: the chairmanof the meeting: at least five shareholders present orby proxy entitled to vote on the resolution: any shareholder or shareholders representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution: or any shareholder or shareholders holding shares conferring a right to vote on the resolution on which there have been paid-up sums in aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right.
Aformof proxy willbe treated as giving the proxy the authority to demand a poll, orto join others in demanding one, as above.
The necessary quorum for a general meeting is two shareholders present in person or by proxy carrying the right to vote upon the business to be transacted.
Matters are transacted at general meetings of the Company by the processing and passing of resolutions of which there are two kinds: ordinaryorspecial resolutions: Ordinary resolutions include resolutions for the re-election of directors, the approval of financial statements, the declaration of dividends other than interim dividends, the appointment and re-appointment of auditors or the grant of authority to allot shares.
An Ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a majorityof the votes of those persons voting at the meetings at which there is a quorum.
Special resolutions include resolutions amending the Companys articles of association, disapplying statutory pre-emption rights or changing the Companys name: modifying the rights of any class of the Companys shares at a meeting of the holders of such class or relating to certain matters concerning the Companys winding up.
A special resolution requires the affirmative vote of not less than threequarters of the votes of the persons voting at the meeting at which there is a quorum.
Annual General Meetings must be convened upon advance written notice of 21 days.
Other general meetings must be convened upon advance written notice of at least 14 clear days.
The days of delivery or receipt of notice are not included.
The notice must specify the nature of the business to be transacted.
Meetings are convened by the Board of directors.
Members with 5% of the Ordinary Share capital of the  the Boardto convene a meeting.
Variation of Rights If, at any time, the Companys share capital is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, with the consent in writing of holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or upon the adoption of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, all the provisions of the articles of association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that the quorum is to be the number of persons which must be two or more who hold or represent by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class and at any such meeting a poll may be demanded in writing by any person or their proxy who hold shares of that class.
Where a person is present by proxy or proxies, he is treated as holding only the shares in respect of which the proxies are authorised to exercise voting rights.
Rights in a Winding-Up Except as the Companys shareholders have agreed or may otherwise agree, upon the Companys winding up, the balance of assets available fordistribution: after the payment of all creditors including certain preferential creditors, whether statutorily preferred creditors ornormalcreditors: and subject to any special rights attaching to any other class of shares: is to be distributed among the holders of Ordinary Shares according to the amounts paid-up on the shares held by them.
This distribution is generally to be made in US Dollars.
A liquidator may, however, upon the adoption of any extraordinary resolution of the shareholders and any other sanction required by law, divide among the shareholders the whole orany part of the Companys assets in kind.
2010Annual Report 148 Limitations on Voting and Shareholding There are no limitations imposed by English law or the Companys articles of association on the right of non-residents or foreign persons to hold or vote the Companys ordinary shares or ADSs, other than the limitations that would generally apply to all of the Companys shareholders.
Transfers of Shares The Boardmayrefuse to register the transfer of shares held in certificated formwhich: are not fully paid provided that it shall not exercise this discretion in such a way as to prevent stock market dealings in the shares of that class fromtaking place on an open and proper basis : are not duly stamped or duly certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty, lodged at the Transfer Office or at such other place as the Board may appoint and save in the case of a transfer by a person to whomno certificate was issued in respect of the shares in question accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it relates, and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that person so to do: are in respect of morethan one class of shares: or are in favour of morethan four transferees.
Deferred Shares Following the redenomination of share capital on 23 January 2006 the Ordinary Shares nominal value became 20 US cents each.
There were no changes to the rights or obligations of the Ordinary Shares.
In order to complywith the Companies Act 2006, a new class of Sterling shares was created, Deferred Shares, of which 50,000 were issued and allotted in 2006 as fully paid to the Chief Executive though the Board reserves the right to transfer them to another member of the Board should it so wish.
These Deferred Shares have no voting or dividend rights and on winding up only are entitled to repayment at nominalvalue onlyif all ordinaryshareholders have received the nominal value of their shares plus an additional $1,000 each.
Amendments The Companydoes not have any special rules about amendments to its articles of association beyond those imposed by law.
2010Annual Report 149 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement 
