Accounting Policies continued Contingencies and Provisions continued The Group operates in multiple tax jurisdictions around the world and records provisions for taxation liabilities and tax audits when it is considered probable that a tax charge will arise and the amount can be reasonably estimated.
Although Group policy is to submit its tax returns to the relevant tax authorities as promptly as possible, at any time the Group has unagreed years outstanding and is involved in disputes and tax audits.
Significant issues may take many years to resolve.
In estimating the probability and amount of any tax charge management takes into account the views of internal and external advisors and updates the amount of the provision whenever necessary.
The ultimate tax liability may differ from the amount provided depending on interpretations of tax law, settlement negotiations orchanges in legislation.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
For the purposes of calculating any onerous lease provision, the Group has taken the discounted future lease payments, net of expected rental income.
Before a provision is established, the Group recognises any impairmentloss on the assets associated with that contract.
Adjusted Earnings Per Share Adjusted earnings per share is a trend measure which presents the long-term profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions that management considers affect the Groups short-term profitability.
Adjusted attributable profit is the numerator used for this measure, reconciliation from attributable profit to adjusted attributable profit is included in Note 11 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
The Group has identified the following items, where material, as those to be excluded when arriving at adjusted attributable profit: acquisition and disposal related items including amortisation of acquisition intangible assets and impairments: significant restructuring events: gains and losses arising fromlegal disputes and uninsured losses: and taxation thereon.
New Accounting Standards New IFRS Accounting Standards The following IFRS standard, which is relevant to the Group, has been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB but is not yet effective or has not yet been adopted by the Group.
Unless otherwise listed below, no other standard, amendment or interpretation is likely to have a materialeffect on the Groups results of operations orfinancial position.
In November 2009, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
This standard specifies how the Group should classify and measure financial assets.
It requires all financial assets to be either classified on the basis of the entitys business model and the contractual cash flowcharacteristics of the financial asset orinitiallymeasured at fairvalue.
This standard has not been endorsed by the EU.
Operating Segment Information For management purposes, the Group is organised into business units according to the nature of its products and has three operating segments Orthopaedics, Endoscopy and Advanced Wound Management.
The types of products and services offered by each operating unit are: Orthopaedic reconstruction implants include hip, knee and shoulder joints as well as ancillary products such as bone cement and mixing systems used in cemented reconstruction joint surgery.
Orthopaedic trauma fixation products consist of internal and external devices and other products, including shoulder fixation and orthobiological materials used in the stabilisation of severe fractures and deformity correction procedures.
Clinical therapies products are those that are applied in an orthopaedic office or clinicsetting and include bone growth stimulation, joint fluid therapies and outpatient spine products.
Smith & Nephews Endoscopy business develops and commercialises endoscopic minimally invasive surgery techniques, educational programmes and value-added services for surgeons to treat and repair soft tissue and articulating joints.
The business focuses on the arthroscopy sector of the endoscopy market.
Arthroscopy is the minimally invasive surgery of joints, in particular the knee, shoulder and hip.
Smith & Nephews Advanced Wound Management business offers a range of products from initial wound bed preparation through to full wound closure.
These products are targeted at chronic wounds associated with the older population, such as pressure sores and venous leg ulcers.
There are also products for the treatment of wounds such as burns and invasive surgery that impact the wider population.
2010Annual Report 89 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement 
