DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE ACCOUNTS The directors are responsible for preparing the Group and Company accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and regulations.
As a consequence of the Companys Ordinary Shares being traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares the directors are responsible for the preparation and filing of an annual report on Form 20-F with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The directors are required to prepare Group accounts for each financial year, in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union which present fairly the financial position of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group forthat period.
In preparing those Group accounts, the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: and State that the Group has compliedwith IFRS, subject to any materialdepartures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
Under United Kingdom law the directors have elected to prepare the Company accounts in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, which are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the Company accounts, the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any materialdepartures disclosed and explained in the accounts: and Prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the companywillcontinue in business.
The directors confirmthat they have compliedwith the above requirements in preparing the accounts.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, in the case of the Group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence fortaking reasonable steps forthe prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
It should be noted that information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts maydiffer fromlegislation in other jurisdictions.
