Endoscopy delivered another year of double digit percentage growth in sports medicine repair products.
TWINFIX Ultra Suture Anchors Business Reviews Endoscopy Smith & Nephews Endoscopy business offers surgeons endoscopic technologies for surgery of the joints and ligament repair.
The business focuses on the arthroscopy or sports medicine sector of the endoscopy market.
Arthroscopy is the minimally invasive surgery of joints, in particular the knee, shoulder and hip.
Products include: specialised devices and fixation systems to repair damaged tissue: fluid management equipment for surgical access: digital cameras, digital image capture, scopes, light sources and monitors to assist with visualisation: and radiofrequency probes, electromechanical and mechanical blades, and hand instruments for resecting damaged tissue.
In 2010 Endoscopy revenues grew 7% to $855 million.
In the US revenues grew by 1%, in Europe revenues grew by 7% and in the rest of the world growth was 17%, with another strong performance from the emerging markets.
Globally, Arthroscopy sports medicine grew by 9%, driven by another year of double digit growth from our sports medicine repair franchise.
New repair products launched this year included an expansion of the TWINFIX Ultra Suture Anchor range for shoulder repair and BIOSURE SYNC Tibial Fixation Device for knee repair, a specialised device to secure soft tissue grafts to the tibia during anterior cruciate ligament ACL reconstruction.
Our resection franchise benefited from the introduction of a new range of radiofrequency ablation probes early in the year.
Visualisation sales fell by 9% which reflects our strategy to focus on those capital items which are closely aligned with our core sports medicine business.
In April 2010 we opened our new Surgical Skills Centre in York, UK, providing our customers with another world class training facility.
The Endoscopy trading margin was 23.3%, a 60 basis point reduction on last year.
This reflects the planned increase in investment in product development and in the sales force, particularly in the US, as highlighted last year.
Endoscopy revenue by business segment 12 Smith & Nephew 2010 Summary Annual Review Shareholder Outlook Business Reviews Financial Performance Our Strategy Financial Highlights Introduction Information Business Reviews Endoscopy cont.
Global arthroscopy competitor share Market value: $3 billion Market growth: 8-12% Arthroscopy growth rates are driven by increasing numbers of sports injuries, longer and more active lifestyles, patient desire for minimally invasive procedures, innovative technological developments and a need for cost effective procedures.
The arthroscopy market has a particular focus on arthroscopic repair of the knee and shoulder using a broad range of technology.
The Group also expects to benefit from the demand for less invasive approaches to arthroscopic hip repair.
i i Competitor shares are based on estimates for selected segments and competitors, and may not be comprehensive.
Surgical Skills Centre, York, UK 13 Smith & Nephew 2010 Summary Annual Review Shareholder Outlook Business Reviews Financial Performance Our Strategy Financial Highlights Introduction Information
