Accounting Policies continued Investments in Associates Investments in associates, being those entities over which the Group has a significant influence and which is neither a subsidiary or a joint venture, are accounted for using the equity method, with the Group recording its share of the associates net income and equity.
The Groups share in the results of its associates is included in one separate income statement line and is calculated after deduction of their respective taxes.
Revenue Revenue comprises sales of products and services to third parties at amounts invoiced net of trade discounts and rebates, excluding taxes on revenue.
Revenue from the sale of products is recognised upon transfer to the customer of the significant risks and rewards of ownership.
This is generally when goods are delivered to customers.
Sales of inventory located at customer premises and available for customers immediate use are recognised when notification is received that the product has been implanted or used.
Appropriate provisions for returns, trade discounts and rebates are deducted from revenue.
Rebates comprise retrospective volume discounts granted to certain customers on attainment of certain levels of purchases from the Group.
These are accrued over the course of the arrangement based on estimates of the level of business expected and adjusted at the end of the arrangement to reflect actual volumes.
Foreign Currencies Balance sheet items of foreign operations and foreign currency borrowings are translated into US Dollars on consolidation at year end rates of exchange.
Income statement items and the cash flows of overseas subsidiary undertakings and associated undertakings are translated at average rates as an approximation to actual transaction rates, with actual transaction rates used for large one off transactions.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and  in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The following are recorded as movements in Other reserves within other comprehensive income: exchange differences on the translation at closing rates of exchange of non-US Dollar opening net assets: the differences arising between the translation of profits into US Dollars at average and closing exchange rates: to the extent that the hedging relationship is effective, the difference on translation of foreign currency borrowings or swaps that are used to finance or hedge the Groups net investments in foreign operations: and the movement in the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts used to hedge forecast foreign exchange cash flows.
Allother exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
Taxation The charge for current taxation is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed.
It is calculated using rates that have been enacted orsubstantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences arising between the carryingamount of assets and liabilitiesin the accounts and the corresponding tax bases used in computationof taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except in respect of investments in subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that this will not reverse in the foreseeable future: on the initial recognition of non-deductible goodwill: and on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combinationand that, at the time of the transaction, does not affect the accounting ortaxable profit.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporarydifference can be utilised.
Their carryingamount is reviewed at each balance sheet date on the same basis.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis, and at the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability is settled.
It is recognised in the income statement except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to other comprehensive income or equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income orequity respectively.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority, when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilitieson a net basis and that authority permits the Group to make a single net payment.
2010Annual Report 85 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement 
