NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS A.
Accounting Policies The separate accounts of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments as described below, and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
As consolidated financial information has been disclosed under IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, the Company is exempt from FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The Group accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and are presented on pages 80 to 128.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8, Related Party Disclosures not to present its related party disclosures as the Group accounts contain these disclosures.
In addition, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 1, Cash Flow Statements not to present its own cash flowstatement as the Group accounts contain a consolidated cash flow.
In applying these policies management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results ultimately maydiffer fromthose estimates.
Foreign Currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All exchange differences are dealt with in arriving at profit before taxation.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision forimpairment.
FinancialInstruments Currency swaps are used to match foreign currency net assets with foreign currency liabilities.
They are initially recorded at fair value and then forreporting purposes remeasured to fair value at exchange rates and interest rates at subsequent balance sheet dates.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognised in the profitand loss account as they arise.
Deferred Taxation Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions orevents have occurred at that date that willresult in an obligationto pay more, ora right to pay less orto receive more, tax.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences are expected to reverse.
These are based on tax rates and laws substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Share Based Payments The Company operates a number of equity-settled executive and employee share plans.
For all grants of share options and awards, the fair value as at the date of grant is calculated using an appropriate option pricing model and the corresponding expense is recognised over the vesting period.
Subsidiarycompanies are recharged forthe fairvalue of share options that relate to their employees.
The disclosure relating to the Companyis detailed in Note 25 of the Notes to the Group accounts.
