Contingencies The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various legal proceedings, some of which include claims for substantial damages.
The outcome of these proceedings cannot readily be foreseen, but with the possible exception of those detailed below, management believes none of them will result in a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Group.
The Group provides for outcomes that are deemed to be probable and can be reliably estimated.
There is no assurance that losses will not exceed provisions or will not have a significant impact on the Groups results of operations in the period in which they are realised.
In August 2003, the Group withdrew voluntarily from all markets the macrotextured versions of its OXINIUM femoral knee components.
A number of related claims have been filed, most of which have been settled.
The aggregate cost to date related to this matter is approximately $212m.
The Group has sought recovery fromits insurers.
To date the primary insurance carrier has paid $60m in full settlement of its policy liability.
An additional $22m was received from a successful legal settlement.
At 31 December 2010, at least $133m remains due, and the Group has sought coverage from five excess insurance carriers.
However, these excess carriers have denied coverage, citing defences relating to the wording of the insurance policies and other matters.
In December 2004, the Group brought suit against them in the US District Court for the Western District of Tennessee, and trial is expected to commence in 2012.
A charge of $154m was recorded in 2004 for anticipated expenses in connection with macrotexture claims.
Most of that amount has since been applied to settlements of such claims.
Management believes that the $20m provision remaining is adequate to cover remaining claims.
Given the uncertainty inherent in such matters, however, there can be no assurance on this point.
In September 2007, the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC notified the Group that it was conducting an informal investigation of companies in the medical devices industry, including the Group, regarding possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA in connection with the sale of products in certain foreign countries.
The US Department of Justice subsequently joined the SECs request.
The Group is cooperating fully with the US Department of Justice and the SEC regarding these matters, has conducted a broader review on its own initiative, and has disclosed to them information indicating that at least one independent distributor of the Groups products may have made payments that could have FCPA implications.
The Group is engaged in discussions to resolve these matters, which might include a settlement by which the Group would pay certain amounts, and submit to compliance reporting and oversight obligations.
There is no assurance that a settlement willbe reached, however.
The Group is engaged, as both plaintiff and defendant, in litigation with various competitors and others over claims of patent infringement and, in some cases, breach of licence agreement.
These disputes are being heard in courts in the United States and other jurisdictions and also before agencies that examine patents.
Outcomes are rarely certain and costs are often significant.
RetirementBenefit Obligations The Groups retirement benefit obligations comprise: 2010 2009 $ million $ million Funded Plans: UK Plan 59 134 USPlan 110 109 Other Plans i 36 28 205 271 Unfunded Plans: Other Plans i 22 22 Retirement Healthcare 35 29 262 322 i The analysisinthisnote  both the funded and unfunded retirement benefit obligations.
The Group sponsors pension plans for its employees in most of the countries in which it has major operating companies.
Pension plans are established under the laws of the relevant country.
Funded plans are funded by the payment of contributions to, and the assets held by, separate trust funds or insurance companies.
In those countries where there is no company-sponsored pension plan, state benefits are considered adequate.
Employees retirement benefits are the subject of regular management review.
The Groups major defined benefit pension plans in the UK and USwere closed to new employees in 2003and replaced by defined contribution plans.
Defined benefit plans provide employees with an entitlement to retirement benefits varying between 1.3% and 66.7% of final salary on attainment of retirement age.
The level of entitlement is dependent on the years of service of the employee.
