Our Orthopaedics business reported revenues of $2,195 million in the year, an underlying increase of 2%.
VISIONAIRE Patient Matched Instrumention Business Reviews Orthopaedics Orthopaedics comprises reconstruction, trauma and clinical therapies products.
Orthopaedic reconstruction implants include hip, knee and shoulder joints as well as ancillary products such as bone cement.
Orthopaedic trauma fixation products consist of internal and external devices and other products, including shoulder fixation and orthobiological materials used in the stabilisation of severe fractures and deformity correction procedures.
Clinical therapies products are those that are applied in an orthopaedic office or clinic setting and include bone growth stimulation and joint fluid therapies.
Orthopaedics achieved annual revenues of $2,195 million and grew by 2%.
In the US, Orthopaedic revenues grew by 2% to $1,176 million, in Europe revenues grew 1% and the rest of the world grew 4%.
By business segment, Orthopaedic Reconstruction revenues grew by 3%, Orthopaedic Trauma grew by 3% and Clinical Therapies fell by 5%.
Orthopaedic Reconstruction revenues grew at 3% to $1,537 million, achieving above market growth in the second half of 2010 as our performance improved and grew at the market rate for the year as whole.
The year has been marked in particular by the economic environment and the strength of our knee franchise.
There has continued to be pressure from the challenging environment on higher specification and early intervention knee and hip implant systems.
Despite the market conditions, our knee franchise outperformed the market by growing at 5%, as our LEGION Knee System delivered strong growth.
This was driven by the US Food and Drug Administration FDA clearance to claim that our VERILAST bearing technology for knee replacement provides wear performance sufficient for 30 years of actual use under typical conditions and by our VISIONAIRE Patient Matched Instrumentation sets.
In our hip franchise both our traditional and new products have continued to perform well, led by our R3 Acetabular System.
Sales of our BIRMINGHAM HIP Resurfacing System have been weaker, but we are confident that our programme of reinforcing the superior clinical data with surgeons and patients will be effective.
Overall, our hip franchise delivered flat underlying growth.
In the US, Orthopaedic Reconstruction revenues grew by 3% and in Europe, where we implemented a series of operational improvements during 2009, our business improved and revenues grew by 2%.
In the rest of the world our emerging market business contributed another strong performance.
Orthopaedic Trauma revenues were $435 million, growth of 3%.
Our Trauma business improved consistently throughout the year as the management actions to provide additional support and training to the sales force were successful.
These actions were supported by the introduction of new products, such as TRIGEN SURESHOT Distal Targeting System for screw placement and a new range of foot and ankle treatment products.
9 Smith & Nephew 2010 Summary Annual Review Shareholder Outlook Business Reviews Financial Performance Our Strategy Financial Highlights Introduction Information Business Reviews Orthopaedics cont.
Clinical Therapies revenues were down 5% to $223 million partly reflecting the sale of our niche pain management business and termination of our small spine distribution business in Germany in early 2010, which reduced our Clinical Therapies revenue growth by about 8%.
Our EXOGEN Ultrasound Bone Healing System achieved double digit revenue growth for the year and our joint fluid therapies franchise continues to perform well despite the increased competitive environment in the US.
Orthopaedics trading margin in the year was 24.4%, a 60 basis point improvement over the prior year, due to a range of efficiency programmes and the benefit from improved inventory management.
We have also completed construction of a new orthopaedic manufacturing plant in Beijing, China.
Orthopaedics revenue by business segment 10 Smith & Nephew 2010 Summary Annual Review Shareholder Outlook Business Reviews Financial Performance Our Strategy Financial Highlights Introduction Information Business Reviews Orthopaedics cont.
Global orthopaedics market and competition Market value: $17 billion Market growth: 4% In 2010, weaker economic conditions worldwide continued to create several challenges for the overall orthopaedic market, including increased deferrals of joint replacement procedures and heightened pricing pressures.
These factors contributed to the lower overall growth of the worldwide orthopaedic market compared to historic comparables.
However, over the medium-term, several catalysts are expected to continue to drive sustainable growth in orthopaedic device sales, including the growing, ageing population, rising rates of co-morbidities such as obesity and diabetes, technology improvements allowing surgeons to treat younger, more active patients, and the increasing strength of the demand for healthcare in emerging markets.
Both the orthopaedic trauma and clinical therapies markets are expected to continue to grow due to a global population increasingly at risk from fractures due to age, osteoporosis, obesity and diabetes and also due to continuous advancements in the surgical treatment of fractures, and the need to manage pain in younger, more active patients.
The global orthopaedics market served by the Group consists of orthopaedic reconstruction and orthopaedic trauma.
Competitor shares are based on estimates for selected segments and competitors, and may not be comprehensive.
11 Smith & Nephew 2010 Summary Annual Review Shareholder Outlook Business Reviews Financial Performance Our Strategy Financial Highlights Introduction Information
