GLOSSARY OF TERMS Unless the context indicates otherwise, the followingterms have the meanings shown below: Term Meaning ACL The anterior cruciate ligament ACL is one of the four major ligaments in the human knee.
ADR In the US, the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the form of ADSs evidenced by American Depository Receipts ADRs.
ADS In the US, the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs.
Advanced Wound Management A product group comprising products associated with the treatment of skin wounds, ranging from products that provide moist wound healing using breathable films and polymers to products providing active wound healing by  action.
AGM Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Arthoscopy Endoscopy of the joints is termed arthroscopy, with the  being the knee and shoulder.
Basis Point One hundredth of one percentage point.
Chronicwounds Chronic wounds are those with long or unknown healing times including leg ulcers, pressure sores and diabetic foot ulcers.
Company Smith & Nephew plc or, where appropriate, the Companys Board of Directors, unless the context otherwise requires.
Companies Act Companies Act 2006, as amended, of England and Wales.
DUROLANE DUROLANEis a registered trademark of Q-MED AB.
EBITA Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
EIP Earnings Improvement Programme, the objective of which is to enhance short and medium term performance, to liberate resources for investment and to establish a culture of continuous improvement.
EPSA Adjusted Earnings Per Share is a trend measure which presents the long-term profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions that management considers affect the Groups short-term profitability.
The Group presents this measure to assist investors in their understanding of trends.
Adjusted attributable profitis the numerator used forthis measure.
Endoscopy Endoscopy allows surgeons to operate through small openings in the body, rather than large incisions.
Endoscopy products A product group comprising specialised viewing and access devices, surgical instruments and powered equipment used in minimally invasive surgical procedures.
Through a small incision surgeons are able to see inside the body using a monitorand identify and repair defects.
Euro or References to the commoncurrency used in the majorityof the countries of the European Union.
External fixation The use of wires orpins transfixed through bone to hold a frame to the position of a fracture.
Financial statements Refers to the consolidated Group Accounts of Smith&Nephew plc.
FTSE 100 Index of the largest 100 listed companies on the LondonStockExchange by market capitalisation.
Group orSmith&Nephew Used for convenience to refer to the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires.
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations as adopted by the EU and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
2010Annual Report 152 Term Meaning IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Intramedullary nail system Stainless steel or titanium implants shaped like a nail implanted in the intramedullary canal in diaphyseal fractures.
Labrum Another name forcartilage found in the hip joint and shoulder joint.
Metal-on-metal hip resurfacing A less invasive surgical approach to treating arthritis in younger patients whereby only the surfaces of the hip joint are replaced leaving the hip head substantially preserved.
Negative Pressure Wound Therapy A technology used to treat chronic wounds such as diabetic ulcers, pressure sores and post operative wounds through the application of sub-atmospheric pressure to an open wound.
NYSE New York Stock Exchange.
 Anyproduct that is primarilyintended to act as a scaffold and or actively stimulates bone growth.
Orthopaedic products Orthopaedic reconstruction products include joint replacement systems for knees, hips and shoulders and support products such as computer assisted surgery and minimally invasive surgery techniques.
Orthopaedic trauma devices are used in the treatment of bone fractures including rods, pins, screws, plates and external frames.
Clinical therapies products include joint fluid therapy for pain reduction of the knee and an ultrasound treatment to accelerate the healing of bone fractures.
OXINIUM OXINIUM material is an advanced load bearing technology.
It is created through a proprietary manufacturing process that enables zirconium to absorb oxygen and transform to a ceramic on the surface, resulting in a material that incorporates the features of ceramic and metal.
Management believes that OXINIUM material used in the production of components of knee and hip implants exhibits unique performance characteristics due to its hardness, low-friction and resistance to roughening and abrasion.
Pound Sterling, Sterling, pence References to UK currency.
1p is equivalent to one hundredth of 1. orp Repair A product group within endoscopy comprising specialised devices, fixation systems and bioabsorbable materials to repair joints and associated tissue.
Resection Products that cut or ablate tissue within endoscopy comprising mechanical blades, radio frequency wands, electromechanical and hand instruments forresecting tissue.
SUPARTZ SUPARTZ is a registered trademark of Seikagaku Corp. Trading profit Trading profit is a trend which presents the long-term profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions that management considers affect the Groups short-term profitability.
The Group has identified the following items, where material, as those to be excluded from operating profit when arriving at trading profit: acquisition and disposal related items including amortisation of acquisition intangible assets and impairments: significant restructuring events: and gains and losses resulting fromlegal disputes and uninsured losses.
Traditional woundcare Product group comprising medical textile products, adhesive tapes and fixative sheets to secure wound management products to the body.
UK United Kingdom of Great Britainand Northern Ireland.
UK GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom US United States of America.
USDollars, US$ orcents References to UScurrency.
1 cent is equivalent to one hundredth of US$1 2010Annual Report 153 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement  Term Meaning USGAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Visualisation Products within endoscopy comprising digital cameras, light sources, monitors, scopes, image capture, central control and multimedia broadcasting systems for use in endoscopic surgery with visualisation.
Wound bed An area of healthy dermal and epidermal tissue of a wound.
