Trading Cash Flow and Trading Profit to Cash Conversion Ratio Growth in trading cash flow and improvement in the trading profit to cash conversion ratio are measures which present the trend growth in the long-term cash generation of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions or events that management considers affect the Groups short-term performance.
Trading cash flow is defined as cash generated from operations less net capital expenditure but before acquisition related cash flows, restructuring and rationalisation cash flows and cash flows arising from legal disputes and uninsured losses.
Trading profit to cash conversion ratiois trading cash flowexpressed as a percentage of trading profit.
The Group presents those measures to assist investors in their understanding of trends.
The Groups internal financial reporting budgets, monthly reporting, forecasts, long-term planning and incentive plans focuses on cash generation before these items.
Trading cash flow and trading profitto cash conversion ratioare non-GAAP financial measures.
Trading cash flow reconciles to cash generated from operations, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with IFRS, as follows: 2010 2009 2008 $ million $ million $ million Cash generated fromoperations 1,111 1,030 815 Less: Capital expenditure 315 318 292 Add:Cash received on disposal of fixed assets 8 - 3 Add:Acquisitionrelated expenditure - 22 48 Add:Restructuring and  expenditure 16 32 28 Add:Macrotexture expenditure 5 5 10 Trading cash flow 825 771 612 Trading Profit 969 857 776 Trading profitto cash conversion ratio % 85% 90% 79% Factors Affecting Smith & Nephews Results of Operations Sales Trends Smith & Nephews business units participate in the global medical devices market and share a common focus on the repair of human tissue.
Smith & Nephews principal geographic markets are in the well-developed healthcare economies of the US, Europe, Japan and Australia.
These markets are characterised by an increase in the average age of the population caused by the immediate post-World War II baby boomer generation approaching retirement, increased longevity, more active lifestyles, obesity and increased affluence.
Together these factors have created significant demand for more effective healthcare products which deliver improved outcomes through technology advances.
Furthermore, pressure to resist increases in overall healthcare spending has led healthcare providers to demand products which minimisethe length of hospital stays and use of surgeon and nursing resources.
Increasing consumer awareness of available healthcare treatments through the Internet and direct-to-customer advertising has led to increased consumer influence over product purchasing decisions.
For a description of the impact on each business unit refer to the Market and Competition sections under Business Description on pages 4 to 9.
Innovation The Group must continually develop its existing and new technologies and bring new products to its customers to drive sales growth.
Expenditure on research and development in 2010 represented approximately 4% 2009 4% of Group revenue.
The focus of Smith & Nephews innovation is to create new products and surgical techniques with distinct advantages in clinical performance and costeffectiveness benefits forclinicians, patients and healthcare providers.
2010Annual Report 27 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement 
