NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS 1.
General Information Smith & Nephew plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales.
In these accounts, Group means the Company and all its subsidiaries.
The principal activities of the Group are to develop, manufacture, market and sell medical devices in the sectors of Orthopaedics, Endoscopy and Advanced Wound Management.
Presentation of financialinformation As required by the European Unions IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006, the Group has prepared its accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU effective as at 31 December 2010.
The Group has also prepared its accounts in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB effective as at 31 December 2010.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB.
However, the differences have no impact forthe periods presented.
Accounting Policies The Group has adopted IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinationsand IAS27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
These standards are being applied prospectively and have no impact on the current presentation or disclosure of information, and therefore no comparative amounts require restatement.
No other standard or interpretation coming into effect during the year had a significant effect on the reported results orthe financial position of the Group.
The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the Groups accounts are set out below: Basis of Preparation The preparation of accounts in conformity with IFRS requires management to use estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
The accounting policies requiring management to use significant estimates and assumptions: Inventories, Impairment, Retirement Benefits and Contingencies and Provisions, are discussed under Critical Accounting Policies within the Business Review, Liquidity and Prospects section on pages 28 to 29.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results ultimately maydiffer fromthose estimates.
The directors continue to adopt the going concern basis for accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence forthe foreseeable future.
Consolidation The Group accounts include the accounts of Smith & Nephew plc the Company and its subsidiaries for the periods during which they were members of the Group.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights.
Subsidiaries are consolidated in the Group accounts from the date that the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Allsubsidiaries have year ends which are co-terminous with the Groups.
Business Combinations and Goodwill On acquisition, identifiable assets and liabilities including contingent liabilities of subsidiaries and associates are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition using the acquisition method.
The fair value of assets includes the taxation benefits resulting from amortisation for income taxation purposes from which a third party separately acquiring the assets would reasonably be expected to benefit.
Goodwill, representing the excess of purchase consideration over the Groups share of the fair value of net assets acquired, is capitalised.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment annually.
For purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored by management, being the operating segment level, Orthopaedics, Endoscopy and Advanced Wound Management.
