Introduction Trading profit increased by 11% to $969 million.
David Illingworth John Buchanan Chief Executive Chairman Introduction Smith & Nephew delivered revenues of $3,962 million, an underlying increase of 4% compared to last year, after adjusting for beneficial currency movements of 1%.
All of our global business units reported underlying revenue growth.
Trading profit increased by 11% to $969 million.
These results were a significant achievement in challenging market conditions.
The performance of our Orthopaedic The Groups focus on efficiency has joins the company from Pierre Fabre, where business improved during the year, with continued and our trading margin improved he was Chief Executive, having previously our Reconstruction and Trauma segments strongly by 180 basis points to 24.5%.
This been the Executive Vice-President at Abbott outperforming their respective markets in has been achieved through continued Laboratories in charge of its Pharmaceuticals the second half of 2010.
In the US, our knee delivery of efficiency programmes division, which had revenues of $16 billion franchise was particularly strong, delivering throughout the business, improved inventory in 2009.
His global experience in healthcare a market leading performance.
In Europe management and the BlueSky settlement makes him highly qualified to take Smith last year we strengthened our management relating to the acquisition of our NPWT & Nephew forward, building on the strong team and this has resulted in an improved technology in 2007. momentum of the Group.
performance despite the weak market.
Our We continue to generate strong cash flow Four years ago we set ourselves the goal of emerging market business remained strong and our net debt is now below $500 million significantly improving the efficiency of our throughout the year.
Despite the economic challenges, we have achieved that goal.
Not only that, In Endoscopy, our sports medicine repair In February 2011 Dave Illingworth announced but Smith & Nephew is outperforming franchise again achieved double digit his decision to retire from the Board at the the market in the majority of its business percentage sales growth and our resection close of the Annual General Meeting on 14 segments and we have built a culture of franchise benefited from a new range of April 2011, staying on as an employee until sustainably generating efficiency gains to radiofrequency ablation probes.
Our rest of the end of his notice period in August.
In fund our investments for growth.
the world business, including the emerging his nine years with Smith & Nephew he has markets, achieved growth of 17%.
made a major impact, as this years results The long term growth drivers underpinning Advanced Wound Management revenues again demonstrate.
As Chief Executive he our industry - including demographics, continued ahead of the market growth rate, has created stronger platforms for growth, emerging markets and patients desire to driven by our Negative Pressure Wound despite the challenges of the external return to an active life remain strong.
Therapy NPWT business, where we environment, and in doing so he has Looking forward, our strategic pillars continue to introduce new products and made substantial contributions to for delivering shareholder value remain successfully defend our intellectual property shareholder value.
Simply put, by giving our position.
All of our geographic regions customers the right product, at the right Olivier Bohuon will join Smith & Nephew contributed to the growth.
time, with the right value proposition, we will as Chief Executive Officer in April 2011.
He continue to deliver long term growth.
2 Smith & Nephew 2010 Summary Annual Review Shareholder Outlook Business Reviews Financial Performance Our Strategy Financial Highlights Introduction Information
