Outlook Our Group has delivered another strong performance, with the majority of our businesses outperforming their respective markets.
The current market challenges are well understood.
We are meeting them by supplying innovative products which offer clinical and cost benefit for our customers and continuing to execute efficiency programmes across our businesses.
The long-term growth drivers underpinning our industry - including demographics, emerging markets and patients desire to return to an active life remain strong.
During 2011, we expect Orthopaedic Reconstruction to grow at above the market rate, as the momentum in our knee franchise looks set to continue.
In Orthopaedic Trauma we made substantial improvements in 2010 and we are committed to sustaining this performance.
In Endoscopy we expect to achieve above market growth in Arthroscopy sports medicine, driven by the repair product segment.
In Advanced Wound Management we believe we will continue to grow at above the market rate.
We made further trading margin progress during 2010, achieving a trading profit margin of 23.9% before the benefit of the BlueSky settlement, and continue to see many areas in our businesses which offer further efficiencies.
We also see an increasing number of investment opportunities to drive top line growth, both geographically and in new products.
We are taking advantage of these opportunities and anticipate that in the short to medium term the cost of these investments will broadly match our further efficiency savings.
We believe we have a clear, balanced, plan for the future based on the same strategic pillars which have maintained growth and investment during the recent global cyclical downturn, while delivering significant margin improvement.
We are confident that, by offering our customers the right product, at the right time with the right value proposition, we are positioned to deliver long term growth.
Forward-Looking Statements This Summary Annual Review is not intended to provide a guide as to the future performance of the Group.
It contains certain forward-looking statements that may or may not prove accurate.
For example, statements regarding expected revenue growth and trading margins, market trends and our product pipeline are forward-looking statements.
Phrases such as aim, plan, intend, anticipate, well-placed, believe, estimate, expect, target, consider and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is expressed or implied by the statements.
For Smith & Nephew, these factors include: economic and financial conditions in the markets we serve, especially those affecting health care providers, payors and customers: price levels for established and innovative medical devices: developments in medical technology: regulatory approvals, reimbursement decisions or other government actions: product defects or recalls: litigation relating to patent or other claims: legal compliance risks and related investigative, remedial or enforcement actions: strategic actions, including acquisitions and dispositions and our success in integrating acquired businesses: and numerous other matters that affect us or our markets, including those of a political, economic, business or competitive nature.
Please refer to the documents that Smith & Nephew has filed with the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission under the U. S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including Smith & Nephews Annual Report 2010 on Form 20-F, for a discussion of certain of these factors.
Any forward-looking statement is based on information available to Smith & Nephew as of the date of the statement.
All written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to Smith & Nephew are qualified by this caution.
Smith & Nephew does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in circumstances or in Smith & Nephews expectations.
Nothing in this Summary Annual Review is or should be construed as either an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy or sell Smith & Nephew securities in any jurisdiction.
16 Smith & Nephew 2010 Summary Annual Review Shareholder Outlook Business Reviews Financial Performance Our Strategy Financial Highlights Introduction Information
