Accounting Policies continued Leases Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
Allother leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised as property, plant or equipment and depreciated accordingly.
The capital element of future lease payments is included in borrowings and interest is charged to profit before taxation on a reducing balance basis over the term of the lease.
Rentals payable under operating leases are expensed in the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Investments and Other FinancialAssets Investments, other than those related to associates, are initially recorded at fair value plus transaction costs on the trade date.
The Group holds an investment in an entity that holds mainly unquoted equity securities, which is classed as available-for-sale and carried at fair value.
The fair value of the investment is based on the underlying fair value of the equity securities: marketable securities are valued by reference to closing prices in the market: non-marketable securities are estimated considering factors including the purchase price, prices of recent significant private placements of securities of the same issuer and estimates of liquidation value.
Changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income except where management considers that there is objective evidence of an impairmentof the underlying equity securities, whereupon an impairmentis recognised as an expense immediately.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost, less any allowances for uncollectible amounts.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and other receivables are classified as Trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Inventories Finished goods and work-in-progress are valued at factory cost, including appropriate overheads, on a first-in first-out basis.
Raw materials and bought-in finished goods are valued at purchase price.
All inventories are reduced to net realisable value where lower than cost.
Inventory acquired as part of a business acquisition is valued at selling price less costs of disposal and a profit allowance for selling efforts.
Orthopaedic instruments are generally not sold but provided to customers and distributors for use in surgery.
They are recorded as inventory until they are deployed at which point they are transferred to plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful economiclives of between three and five years.
A feature of the orthopaedic business is the high level of product inventory required, some of which is located at customer premises and is available for customers immediate use referred to as consignment inventory.
Complete sets of product, including large and small sizes, have to be made available in this way.
These outer sizes are used less frequently than standard sizes and towards the end of the product life cycle are inevitably in excess of requirements.
Adjustments to carrying value are therefore required to be made to orthopaedic inventory to anticipate this situation.
These adjustments are calculated in accordance with a formula based on levels of inventory compared with historical or forecast usage.
This formula is applied on an individual product line basis and is first applied when a product group has been on the market for two years.
This method of calculation is considered appropriate based on experience but it involves management judgements on effectiveness of inventory deployment, length of product lives, phase-out of old products and efficiency of manufacturing planning systems.
Derivative FinancialInstruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value at subsequent balance sheet dates.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values .
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges of forecast third party and intercompany transactions are recognised in other comprehensive income until the associated asset or liability is recognised.
Amounts taken to other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit and loss.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset, the amounts taken to other comprehensive income are transferred to the initialcarryingvalue of the asset.
2010Annual Report 87 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement 
