Accounting Policies continued Advertising Costs Expenditure on advertising costs is expensed as incurred.
Intangible Assets Intangible assets acquired separately including purchased patents, know-how, trademarks, licences and distribution rights are initially measured at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a material business combination referred to as acquisition intangibles is the fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
All intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The estimated useful economic life of an intangible asset ranges between three and 20 years depending on its nature.
Internally generated intangible assets are expensed in the income statement as incurred.
Purchased computer software and certain costs of information technology projects are capitalised as intangible assets.
Software that is integral to computer hardware is capitalised as plant and equipment.
Research and Development The Group considers that the regulatory, technical and market uncertainties inherent in the development of new products means that development costs should not be capitalised as intangible assets until products receive approval from the appropriate regulatory body.
Substantially all development expenditure is complete by the time the product is submitted for regulatory approval.
Consequently the majorityof expenditure on research and development is expensed as incurred.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation and provision for impairment where appropriate.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Freehold buildings are depreciated on a straight-line basis at between 2% and 5% per annum.
Leasehold land and buildings are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of their estimated useful economiclives and the terms of the leases.
Plant and equipment is depreciated over lives ranging between three and 20 years by equal annual instalments to write down the assets to their estimated residual value at the end of their working lives.
Assets in course of construction are not depreciated until they are brought into use.
The useful lives and residual values of all property, plant and equipment are reviewed each financial year end, and where adjustments are required, these are made prospectively.
Finance costs relating to the purchase or construction of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets that take longer than one year to complete are capitalised based on the Group weighted average borrowing costs.
All other finance costs are expensed as incurred.
Impairment of assets The recoverable amount of cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually or when events orchanges in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of impairment loss.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which it belongs.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
In assessing value-in-use, its estimated future cash flow is discounted to its present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
In carrying out impairment reviews of goodwill and intangible assets a number of significant assumptions have to be made when preparing cash flow projections.
These include annual sales growth, trading margins, capital utilisation and anticipated volume and value growth in the markets served by the Group.
If actual results should differ, or changes in expectations arise, impairment charges maybe required which would adversely impact operating results.
