INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Financial Calendar Annual General Meeting 14 April2011 Quarter One results 5 May 2011 Payment of 2010final dividend 19 May 2011 Half year results announced 5 August 2011 i Quarter Three results announced 4 November 2011 Payment of 2011first interim dividend November 2011 Full year results announced February 2012 i Annual Report available February March2012 Annual General Meeting April May2012 i Dividend declaration dates.
Ordinary Shareholders Registrar Allgeneral enquiries concerning shareholdings, dividends, changes to shareholders personal details and the AGM should be addressed to: Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN996DA Tel: 0871384 2081inside the UK Tel: 44 0 121 415 7072outside the UK.
co. uk Callstothisnumber arecharged at8p per minute fromaBT landline: othertelephony providers costsmay vary.
Shareholder facilities: Shareview Equinitis online enquiry and portfolio management service for shareholders.
To view information about your shareholdings online, register at www.
Once registered for Shareview, you will also be able to register your proxy instructions online and elect to receive future shareholder communicationsvia the Companys website www.
E-communications In line with developing practice we encourage shareholders to elect to receive communications via e-mail as this has significant environmental and cost benefits.
Shareholders may register for this service through Equiniti, at www.
Shareholders will receive a confirmationletter fromEquiniti at their registered address, containing an Activation Code forfuture use.
Payment of dividends direct to your bank or building society account Shareholders who wish to avoid the risk of their dividend payments getting lost or mislaid can arrange to have their cash dividends paid directly to a bank or building society account.
This facility is available to UK resident shareholders who receive sterling dividends.
If you do not live in the UK you maybe able to register forthe overseas payment service.
Further Informationis available at www.
co. uk or by contacting Equiniti UK and overseas helpline numbers as above.
Dividend re-investmentplan DRIP The Company offers shareholders except those in North America the opportunity to participate in a DRIP.
This enables shareholders to reinvest their cash dividends in further Ordinary shares of Smith & Nephew plc.
These are purchased in the market at competitive dealing costs.
Forfurther details plus an application formto re-invest future dividends, contact Equiniti as above.
Individual savings account ISA Shareholders who are UK resident may hold Smith & Nephew plc shares in an Individual Savings Account ISA, which is administered by the Companys registrar.
Forinformationabout this service please contact Equiniti as above.
2010Annual Report 138 Shareholder Communications The Company makes quarterly financial announcements which are made available through Stock Exchange announcements and on the Groups website www.
Copies of recent Annual Reports, press releases, institutional presentations and audio webcasts are also available on the website.
Following shareholder approval in 2007, the Company sends paper copies of the Annual Report only to those shareholders that have elected to receive shareholder documentation by post.
ADS holders will also not receive a paper copy unless they have elected to do so.
Electronic copies of the Annual Report are available on the Groups website at www.
Both Ordinary shareholders and ADS holders can request paper copies of the Annual Report, which the Company provides free of charge.
The Company will continue to send to Ordinary shareholders by post the notice of the Annual General Meeting and an accompanying letter.
The letter states that the Annual Report is available on the Groups website.
Shareholders who elect to receive the notice of Annual General Meeting electronically are informed by e-mail of the documents availability on the Groups website.
ADS holders receive the form of proxy by post but will not receive a paper copy of the notice of Annual General Meeting.
Investor Communications The Company maintains regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders, together with results presentations.
To ensure that all members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major investors, the executive directors review significant issues raised by investors with the Board.
Non-executive directors are sent copies of analysts and brokers briefings.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the directors at the AGM and the Companyregularly responds to letters fromshareholders on a range of issues.
UK Capital Gains Tax Forthe purposes of UK capital gains tax the price of the Companys OrdinaryShares on 31 March 1982was 35.04p.
Smith & Nephew Share Price The Companys Ordinary Shares are quoted on the LSE under the symbol SN.
The Companys share price is available on the Smith & Nephew website www.
com where it is updated at intervals throughout the day.
ShareGift Shareholders with only a small number of shares, which would cost more to sell than they are worth, may wish to consider donating them to the charity ShareGift registered charity 1052686 which specialises in accepting such shares as donations.
There may be no implications for Capital Gains Tax purposes no gain or loss and it may also be possible to obtain income tax relief.
The relevant stock transfer form may be obtained fromEquiniti at the above address.
Further informationabout ShareGift is available at www.
org orby contacting ShareGift at: ShareGift, 17 CarltonHouse Terrace, LondonSW1Y5AH.
American Depositary Shares ADSs and American Depositary Receipts ADRs In the US, the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the form of ADSs, evidenced by ADRs, on the NYSE under the symbol SNN.
Each American Depositary Share represents five Ordinary Shares.
The Bank of New York Mellon is the authorised depositary bank for the Companys ADR programme.
ADS Enquiries Allenquiries regarding ADSholder accounts and payment of dividends should be addressed to: BNYMellon Shareholder Services, POBox 358516, Pittsburgh, PA15252-8516, USA: Tel: 1-866-259-2287 inside the US toll free Tel: 1-201-680-6825 internationally Email:shrrelations@bnymellon.
A Global BuyDIRECT plan is available for US residents, enabling investment directly in ADSs with reduced brokerage commissions and service costs.
For further information on Global BuyDIRECT contact: The Bank of New York Mellon as above or visit www.
2010Annual Report 139 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement  The Company provides The Bank of New York Mellon, as depositary, with copies of Annual Reports containing Consolidated Financial Statements and the opinion expressed thereon by its independent auditors.
Such financial statements are prepared under IFRS.
The Bank of New York Mellon will send these reports to recorded ADS holders who have elected to receive paper copies.
The Company also provides to The Bank of New York Mellon all notices of shareholders meetings and other reports and communications that are made generally available to shareholders of the Company.
The Bank of New York Mellon makes such notices, reports and communications available for inspection by recorded holders of ADSs and sends formsof proxy by post to all recorded holders of ADSs.
Smith & Nephew ADS price The Companys ADS price can be obtained from the official New York Stock Exchange website at www.
com, the Smith-Nephew website www.
com and is quoted dailyin the WallStreet Journal.
ADS payment information The Company hereby discloses ADS payment information for the year ended 31 December 2010 in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commissionrules 12.
D. 4 relating to Form20-F filings by foreign private issuers.
The depositary collects its fees for delivery and surrender of ADSs directly from investors depositing shares or surrendering ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal or from intermediaries acting for them.
The depositary collects fees for making distributions to investors, including payment of dividends by the Company by deducting those fees from the amounts distributed or by selling a portion of distributable property to pay the fees.
The depositary may collect its annual fee for depository services by deductions from cash distributions or by directly billing investors or by charging the book-entry system accounts of participants acting for them.
The depositary may generally refuse to provide feeattracting services until its fee forthose services are paid.
Persons depositing or withdrawing shares must pay: For: $5.00 or less per 100 ADSs or portionof 100 ADSs Issuance of ADSs, including issuances resulting froma distribution of shares orrights orother property Cancellation of ADSs forthe purpose of withdrawal, including if the deposit agreement terminates $0.02 or less per ADS Anycash distribution to ADSregistered holders, including payment of dividend Afee equivalent to the fee that would be payable if securities Distribution of securities distributed to holders of deposited distributed to holders had been shares and the shares had been securities which are distributed by the depositary to ADSregistered deposited forissuance of ADSs holders $0.02 or less per ADSper calendar year Depositary services Registration ortransfer fees Transfer and registration of shares on our share register to or from the name of the depositary or its agent when shares are deposited orwithdrawn Taxes and other governmental charges the depositary or the As necessary custodian have to pay on any ADS or share underlying an ADS, for example, stock transfer taxes, stamp duty orwithholding taxes Any charges incurred by the depositary or its agents for servicing As necessary the deposited securities A fee of 2 US cents per ADS was paid on the 2009 second interim dividend and a fee of 1 US cent per ADS was deducted from the 2010 first interim dividend paid in November.
In the period 1 January 2010 to 23 February 2011 the total reimbursed by The Bank of New York Mellon was $170,772.
