CurrencyMovements Smith & Nephews results of operations are affected by transactional exchange rate movements in that they are subject to exposures arising from revenue in a currency different from the related costs and expenses.
The Group manages the impact of exchange rate movements on sales and cost of goods sold by a policy of transacting forward foreign currency commitments when firm purchase orders are placed.
In addition, the Groups policyis forforecast transactions to be covered between 50% and 90% forup to one year.
The Groups revenues, profits and earnings are also affected by exchange rate movements on the translation of results of operations in foreign subsidiaries for financial reporting purposes.
This exposure is offset partly because the Group incurs interest in currencies other than US Dollars on its indebtedness denominated in currencies other than US Dollars.
See Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources on page 39.
Governmental economic, fiscal, monetary and political policies and factors that materially affect the Groups operations or investments of shareholders are discussed in Regulation, External Risk, Compliance and Reporting Risk, Taxation information for shareholders on pages 12, 19, 21 and 145-146, respectively, and elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Critical Accounting Policies The Groups significant accounting policies are set out in Note 2 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
Of those, the policies which require the most use of managements judgment are as follows: Inventories A feature of the Orthopaedics business whose finished goods inventory makes up approximately 78% of the Group total finished goods inventory is the high level of product inventory required, some of which is located at customer premises and is available for customers immediate use.
Complete sets of product, including large and small sizes, have to be made available in this way.
These sizes are used less frequently than standard sizes and towards the end of the product life cycle are inevitably in excess of requirements.
Adjustments to carrying value are therefore required to be made to orthopaedic inventory to anticipate this situation.
These adjustments are calculated in accordance with a formula based on levels of inventory compared with historical usage.
This formula is applied on an individual product line basis and is first applied when a product group has been on the market for two years.
This method of calculation is considered appropriate based on experience, but it does involve management judgements on effectiveness of inventory deployment, length of product lives, phase-out of old products and efficiency of manufacturing planning systems.
Impairment In carrying out impairment reviews of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment a number of significant assumptions have to be made when preparing cash flow projections.
These include the future rate of market growth, the market demand for the products acquired, the future profitability of acquired businesses or products, levels of reimbursement and success in obtaining regulatory approvals.
If actual results should differ or changes in expectations arise, impairment charges maybe required which would adversely impact operating results.
RetirementBenefits A number of key judgements have to be made in calculating the fair value of the Groups defined benefit pension plans.
These assumptions impact the Balance Sheet liability, operating profit and other finance income costs.
The most critical assumptions are the discount rate and mortality assumptions to be applied to future pension plan liabilities.
For example as of 31 December 2010, a 0.5% increase in discount rate would have reduced the combined UK and US pension plan deficit by $84m whilst a 0.5% decrease would have increased the combined deficit by $93m.
A 0.5% increase in discount rate would have decreased profit before taxation by $2m whilst a 0.5% decrease would have increased it by $2m.
A one year increase in the assumed life expectancy of the average 60 year old male pension plan member in both the UK and US would have increased the combined deficit by $33m.
In making these judgements, management takes into account the advice of professional external actuaries and benchmarks its assumptions against external data.
The discount rate is determined by reference to market yields on high quality corporate bonds, with currency and term consistent with those of the liabilities.
In particular for the UK and US, the discount rate is derived by reference to a AA yield curve derived by the Groups actuarial advisers.
See Note 33 of the Notes to the Group Accounts for a summary of how the assumptions selected in the last five years have compared with actual results.
