OPERATING ACTIVITIES SALES AND MARKETING Smith & Nephews customers are the providers of medical and surgical services worldwide.
In certain parts of the world, including the UK, much of Continental Europe, Canada and Japan, these are largely government organisations funded by tax revenues.
In the US, the Groups major customers are public and private hospitals, which receive revenue from private health insurance and government reimbursement programmes.
Medicare is the major source of reimbursement in the US, for knee and hip reconstruction procedures and for wound healing treatment regimes.
Competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients on the basis of quality, service and price.
Providers are under pressure to reduce the total cost of healthcare delivery.
There has been some consolidation in the Groups customer base, as well as amongst the Groups competitors, and these trends are expected to continue in the long term.
Smith & Nephew competes against both specialised and , including some with greater financial, marketing and other resources.
The Groups customers reflect the wide range of distribution channels, purchasing agents and buying entities in over 90 countries worldwide.
The largest single customers worldwide are the National Health Service in the UK and the Heath Trust Purchasing Group in the US.
These represented 6% and 5% respectively of the Groups worldwiderevenue in 2010.
In the US, the Groups products are marketed directly to care givers, hospitals and other healthcare facilities with each business unit operating a separate specialised sales force.
The US sales forces consist of a mixture of independent commissionedsales agents and direct employees.
The independent agents are contractually not permitted to sell products that compete with Smith & Nephews.
Orthopaedics and Endoscopy products are principally shipped and invoiced directly to the ultimate customer.
Advanced Wound Management products are marketed directly to the ultimate customer.
The products are shipped and invoiced to a number of wholesale distributors.
In most other direct markets, the business units typically manage employee sales forces directly, and also ship and invoice products both directly to the ultimate customer and to wholesale distributors.
The emerging markets unit comprises direct selling and marketing operations, directly and through distributors, in India, China, Hong Kong, South Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates and South Africa.
In these markets, Orthopaedics and Endoscopy frequently share sales resources.
The Advanced Wound Management sales force may be separate where it calls on different customers.
In countries not covered by the emerging markets unit, Smith & Nephew typically sells to third party distributors which market the Groups products locally.
MANUFACTURING, SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION The Group has a central Global Operations function which continues to implement Lean manufacturing throughout the factories and the supply chain which is designed to improve and sustain higher levels of productivity, quality, service and efficiency.
Core competencies include: materials technology: high precision machining in Orthopaedics and Endoscopy: and high-volume, automated manufacturing in Advanced Wound Management.
Each business unit purchases raw materials, components, finished products and packaging materials from certain key suppliers.
These principally include metal forgings and stampings for Orthopaedics, optical and electronic sub-components and finished goods for Endoscopy, active ingredients and finished goods for Advanced Wound Management and packaging materials across all businesses.
Suppliers are selected, and contracts negotiated, by a centralised Group procurement team wherever possible, with a view to ensure value formoney based on the total spending across the Group.
The Group outsources manufacturing where necessary to obtain specialised expertise or where it is possible to gain lower cost without risk to intellectual property.
Suppliers of outsourced products and services are selected based on their ability to deliver products and services to specification, and establish and maintain a quality system.
Suppliers are trained and are monitored through on-site assessments and performance audits that include quality, service and delivery.
Finished goods purchased for resale include SUPARTZ and DUROLANE joint fluid therapy products in the Orthopaedics business and screen displays, optical and electrical devices in the Endoscopy business.
The Group operates a number of central distribution facilities in the key geographical areas in which it operates.
Orthopaedics and Endoscopy operate a facility in Baar, Switzerland which acts as the main holding and consolidation point for markets in Europe.
Hubs serving the US are located in Memphis, US for Orthopaedics and Oklahoma City, US for Endoscopy.
Products are shipped to Group companies who hold small amounts of inventory locally for immediate or urgent customer requirements.
Advanced Wound Management distribution hubs include: Neunkirchen, Germany: Nottingham, England: and Atlanta, US.
