Financial Instruments and RiskManagement continued Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities For cash and cash equivalents, short-term loans and receivables, overdrafts and other short-term liabilities which have a maturity of less than three months the book values approximate the fairvalues because of their short-term nature.
Forward foreign exchange contracts that are taken out as hedges are fair valued.
These are regarded as Level 2 financial instruments measured at fair value.
Level 2 financial investments are defined as: Valuation techniques for which all observable inputs have a significant effect on the recorded fair values, either directly or indirectly.
The Group only has Level 2 financial instruments measured at fairvalue.
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
Derivatives valued using valuation techniques with market observable inputs are mainly interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing and swap models, using present value calculations.
The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties, foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate curves and forwardrate curves.
As at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009, the mark-to-market value of a derivative asset position is net of a credit valuation adjustment attributable to derivative counterparty default risk.
The changes in counterparty credit risk had no material effect on the hedge effectiveness forderivatives designated in hedge relationships and other financial instruments recognised at fairvalue.
Long-term borrowings are measured in the balance sheet at amortised cost.
As the Groups long-term borrowings are not quoted publicly and as market prices are not available their fair values are estimated by discounting future contractual cash flows to net present values at the current market interest rates available to the Group for similar financial instruments as at the year end.
At 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009, the fair value of the Groups long-term borrowing was not materially different from amortised cost.
Payables 2010 2009 $ million $ million Trade and other payables due within one year Trade and other payables 584 547 Current liabilityderivatives forwardforeign exchange contracts 33 24 Current liabilityderivatives interest rate swaps - 6  -19 617 596 Other payables due after one year:  -27 The amount of $27m due after more than one year in the prior year was settled early during 2010.
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Management considers that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates the fair value.
2010Annual Report 109 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement 
