SHAREHOLDER RETURN Dividends Dividend History Smith & Nephew has paid dividends on its Ordinary Shares in each year since 1937.
Following the capital restructuring and dividend reduction in 2000 the Group adopted a policy of increasing its dividend cover the ratio of EPSA, as set out in the Selected Financial Data, to ordinary dividends declared for the year.
This was intended to increase the financing capability of the Group for acquisitions and other investments.
From 2000 to 2004 the dividend increased in line with inflation and, in 2004, dividend cover stood at 4.1 times.
Having achieved this level of dividend cover the Board changed its policy, from that of increasing dividends in line with inflation, to that of increasing dividends for 2005 and after by 10%.
Following the redenomination of the Companys share capital into US Dollars the Board re-affirmed its policyof increasing the dividend by 10% a year in USDollar terms.
An interim dividend in respect of each fiscal year is normally declared in August and paid in November.
Up to 2004 a final dividend for each year was recommended by the Board of Directors in the following February and paid in May after approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Following shareholder approval in December 2005, the directors were able to declare and pay interim dividends.
The second interim dividend replaced the final dividend and was usually payable in May and accordingly in 2008 and 2009 shareholders received two interim dividends.
From 2010, the Company is reverting to paying an interim and final dividend each year: a final dividend will be recommended by the Board of Directors and paid subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Future dividends of Smith & Nephew will be dependent upon: future earnings: the future financial condition of the Group: the Boards dividend policy: and the additional factors that might affect the business of the Group set out in Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors.
Dividends per Share The table below sets out the dividends per Ordinaryshare in the last five years.
All dividends, up to the second interim dividend for 2005, were declared in pence per Ordinary Share and translated into US cents per Ordinary Share at the Noon Buying Rate on the payment date.
Since the second interim dividend for 2005 all dividends have been declared in US cents per Ordinary Share.
The 2010final dividend willbe payable on 19 May 2011, subject to shareholder approval.
The Ordinary Shares will trade ex-dividend on the London Stock Exchange from 27 April 2011.
The ADSs will trade ex-dividend on the New York Stock Exchange from 29 April 2011.
In respect of the final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 9.82 US cents per Ordinary Share, the record date will be 3 May 2011 and the payment date will be 19 May 2011.
The Sterling equivalent per Ordinary Share will be set following the record date.
Shareholders may elect to receive their dividend in either Sterling or US Dollars and the last day for election willbe 3 May 2011.
2010Annual Report 136 Share Prices The table below sets out, for the periods indicated, the highest and lowest middle market quotations for the Companys Ordinary Shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the UK Listing Authority and the highest and lowest sales prices of its ADSs as reported on the New YorkStockExchange composite tape.
