Accounting Policies continued Derivative FinancialInstruments continued Currency swaps to match foreign currency net assets with foreign currency liabilities are fair valued at year end.
Changes in the fair values of currency swaps that are designated and effective as net investment hedges are matched in other comprehensive income against changes in value of the related net assets.
Interest rate swaps transacted to fix interest rates on floating rate borrowings are accounted for as cash flow hedges and changes in the fairvalues resulting fromchanges in market interest rates are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Any ineffectiveness on hedging instruments and changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement within other finance income costs as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive income is retained there until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain orloss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement forthe period.
Recognition of FinancialAssets and Liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on a trade date basis in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group carries borrowingsin the Balance Sheet at amortised cost.
Retirement Benefits The Groups major pension plans are of the defined benefit type.
For these plans, the employers portion of past and current service cost is charged to operating profit, with the interest cost net of expected return on assets in the plans reported within other finance income costs.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in full directly in other comprehensive income such that the balance sheet reflects the plans surpluses ordeficits as at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by external actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
A number of key assumptions have to be made in calculating the fair value of the Groups defined benefit pension plans.
These assumptions impact the balance sheet assets and liabilities, operating profit and finance income costs.
The most critical assumptions are the discount rate, inflation and mortality assumptions to be applied to future pension plan liabilities.
The most criticalassumption for the plan assets is the future expected return.
In determining these assumptions management takes into account the advice of professional external actuaries and benchmarks its assumptions against external data.
Where defined contribution plans operate, the contributions to these plans are charged to operating profitas they become payable.
Share Based Payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled executive and employee share plans.
For all grants of share options and awards, the fair value at the grant date is calculated using appropriate option pricing models and the corresponding expense is recognised over the vesting period.
Contingencies and Provisions In the normal course of business the Group is involved in numerous legal disputes.
Provision is made for loss contingencies when it is deemed probable that an adverse outcome will occur and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
Where the Group is the plaintiff in pursuing claims against third parties legal and associated expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Contingent assets are not recognised in the accounts.
The recognition of provisions for legal disputes is subject to a significant degree of estimation.
In making its estimates management takes into account the advice of internal and external legal counsel.
Provisions are reviewed regularly and amounts updated where necessary to reflect developments in the disputes.
The ultimate liabilitymaydiffer fromthe amount provided depending on the outcome of court proceedings and settlement negotiations oras new facts emerge.
