Advanced Wound Management revenues grew 7% to $912 million, ahead of the market at 4%.
ALLEVYN Gentle Border Lite Business Reviews Advanced Wound Management Smith & Nephews Advanced Wound Management business offers a range of products from initial wound bed preparation through to full wound closure.
These products are targeted at chronic wounds associated with the older population, such as pressure sores and venous leg ulcers.
There are also products for the treatment of wounds such as burns and invasive surgery that impact the wider population.
Advanced Wound Management delivered revenues of $912 million, an increase of 7%, ahead of the market growth of 4%.
All geographic regions contributed to the growth: Europe grew at 5%, the US at 11% and the rest of the world at 8%.
A significant portion of the growth came from our NPWT product range, where we have continued to expand our product range and offer customers a wide range of clinical and purchasing options.
This, and our continued success in patent litigation, continues to strengthen our position.
We entered the NPWT market in 2007 and finished 2010 with an annual revenue run-rate of over $100 million.
We are focused on continuing to provide customer choice and on launching new products during 2011.
Our Exudate and Infection Management franchises continue to benefit from new products and line extensions, although there has been some softening in market conditions, particularly in those European countries most impacted by government austerity measures.
We plan to launch various new products, and step up targeted investments in sales force and marketing, to meet these challenges.
The Advanced Wound Management trading margin increased by 670 basis points to 25.6%, benefiting from increased productivity and efficiency gains in our operations, particularly from our manufacturing facility in Suzhou, China.
The BlueSky settlement in early 2010 increased the margin by 280 basis points.
14 Smith & Nephew 2010 Summary Annual Review Shareholder Outlook Business Reviews Financial Performance Our Strategy Financial Highlights Introduction Information Business Reviews Advanced Wound Management cont.
Global advanced wound management market and competition Market value: $5.2 billion Market growth: just under 4% During 2010, the market growth rate slowed slightly due to the weaker economic conditions.
The advanced wound management market is focused on the treatment of chronic wounds of the older population and other hard-to-heal wounds such as burns and certain surgical wounds and is therefore also expected to benefit from demographic trends.
Growth is driven by an ageing population and by a steady advance in technology and products that are more clinically efficient and cost effective than their conventional counterparts.
The market for advanced wound treatments is relatively under penetrated and it is estimated that the potential market is significantly larger than the current market.
Management believes that the market will continue the trend towards advanced wound products with its ability to accelerate healing rates, reduce hospital stay times and cut the cost of clinician and nursing time as well as aftercare in the home.
i i Competitor shares are based on estimates for selected segments and competitors, and may not be comprehensive.
15 Smith & Nephew 2010 Summary Annual Review Shareholder Outlook Business Reviews Financial Performance Our Strategy Financial Highlights Introduction Information
