In accordance with the requirement in the US under s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, management assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controlover financial reporting as at 31 December 2010.
In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.
Based on its assessment, management has concluded and hereby reports that, as at 31 December 2010, the Groups internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.
Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on the Groups internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2010.
This report appears on page 79.
There has been no change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting during the period covered by this Annual Report that has materiallyaffected, oris reasonably likely to materiallyaffect, the Groups internal controlover financial reporting.
Disclosures Committee and Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures The Disclosures Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises the Chief Financial Officer and various additional senior executives.
The secretary is the Company Secretary or her designate.
The Committee meets as required and approves the release of all major communicationsto investors, to the UK Listing Authorityand the Londonand New YorkStockExchanges.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2010.
Based upon, and as at the date of that evaluation, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
Code of Conduct The revised Code of Conduct approved by the Ethics and Compliance Committee was issued to all employees during 2010.
The Code of Conduct sets out the basic legal and ethical principles for carrying out business and applies both to employees and those who act on the Groups behalf.
It sets out in detail how persons covered by the Code of Conduct are expected to interact ethically with healthcare professionals and government officials.
It also covers the broader issues of ethics and compliance throughout the business and includes a code of business principles.
Acopy of the Code of Conduct can be found on the Groups website www.
The Code of Conduct includes a whistle blowing policy which enables persons in all jurisdictions where the Group operates to contact the Group anonymously through an independent provider.
All calls and contacts are investigated and the appropriate action taken, including reports to senior management orthe Boardwhere warranted.
Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers The Board of directors has adopted a Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, which is available on the Groups website www.
It applies to the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller and the Groups senior financial officers.
There have been no waivers to any of the Codes provisions nor any amendments made to the Code during 2010 or up until 23 February 2011.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services Fees for professional services provided by Ernst & Young LLP, the Groups independent auditors in each of the last two fiscal years, in each of the followingcategories were: 2010 2009 $ million $ million Audit 33 Audit related fees -- Tax 22 Other -- 55 Audit fees include fees associated with the annual audit and local statutory audits required internationally.
A more detailed breakdown of audit fees maybe found in Note 35 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
