Company information Registered Office Advisors SOCO International plc Auditors Joint Financial Advisors St Jamess House Deloitte LLP and Corporate Brokers 23 King Street London, United Kingdom Bank of America Merrill Lynch London Merrill Lynch Financial Centre SW1Y 6QY Bankers 2 King Edward Street United Kingdom The Royal Bank of Scotland International London PO Box 64 EC1A 1HQ Registered in England Royal Bank House United Kingdom Company No.
3300821 71 Bath Street St Helier J. P. Morgan Cazenove Limited Website Jersey 10 Aldermanbury www.
co. uk JE4 8PJ London Channel Islands EC2V 7RF Company Secretary United Kingdom Cynthia B Cagle JPMorgan 125 London Wall Registrar Financial Calendar London Equiniti Limited Group results for the year to 31 December are EC2Y 5AY Aspect House announced in March April.
The Annual General United Kingdom Spencer Road Meeting is held during the second quarter.
Half Lancing year results to 30 June are announced in August.
BN99 6DA Additionally, the Group will issue an interim United Kingdom management statement between ten weeks after the beginning and six weeks before the end of each half year period.
SOCO International plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 95 SOCO International plc 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Disclaimer This document includes certain forward-looking statements regarding the SOCO Group.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or assumptions that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
These risks, uncertainties or assumptions could adversely affect the outcome and financial effects of the plans and events described herein.
Forward-looking statements contained in this document regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak as only of the date of this document.
Except as required by law, the Company is under no obligation to publicly update or keep current the forward-looking statements contained in this document or to publicly correct any inaccuracies which may become apparent in such forwardlooking statements.
Design and production Wardour, London www.
co. uk Photography South East Asia: John Hepler cover and location Africa: Jean Yves Brochec location Board and Management: Andy Lane and Jean Yves Brochec Print Royle Corporate Print This report is printed on Heaven 42 which is sourced from well managed forests independently certied according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council Disclaimer.
SOCO International plc St Jamess House 23 King Street London SW1Y 6QY United Kingdom T 44 0 20 7747 2000 F 44 0 20 7747 2001 www.
