Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Glossary Market denitions United States of America Other Established Markets Emerging Markets US Western Europe Japan Emerging Europe China Other Emerging ROW Austria Albania Egypt Belgium Canada Belarus Emerging Asia Pacic Gulf States Denmark Bosnia-Herzegovina Bangladesh Israel Finland Other Established ROW Bulgaria Cambodia Latin America France Australia Croatia Hong Kong Lebanon Germany New Zealand Czech Republic India Maghreb Greece Estonia Indonesia Saudi Arabia Holland Georgia Laos South Africa Iceland Hungary Malaysia Ireland Kazakhstan Philippines Italy Latvia Singapore Luxembourg Lithuania South Korea Norway Macedonia Sri Lanka Portugal Poland Taiwan Spain Romania Thailand Sweden Russia Vietnam Switzerland Serbia Montenegro UK Slovakia Slovenia Turkey Ukraine Rest of World means Other Established Markets and Emerging Markets.
Established Markets means the US and Other Established Markets.
Established ROW means Canada, Japan and Other Established ROW.
Latin America includes Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru and Venezuela.
Gulf States includes Bahrain, Dubai, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and UAE.
Maghreb means Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia.
IMS Health data is not available or AstraZeneca does not subscribe for IMS Health data for these countries.
The above table is not an exhaustive list of all the countries in which AstraZeneca operates.
US equivalents Terms used in this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information US equivalent or brief description Accruals Accrued expenses Allotted Issued Called-up share capital Issued share capital Creditors Liabilities payables Debtors Receivables and prepaid expenses Earnings Net income Employee share schemes Employee stock benefit plans Fixed asset investments Non-current investments Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity Interest payable Interest expense Interest receivable Interest income Loans Long-term debt Prepayments Prepaid expenses profit Income profit and loss account Income statement consolidated statement of income Reserves Retained earnings Share premium account Premiums paid in excess of par value of Ordinary Shares Short-term investments Redeemable securities and short-term deposits AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Glossary 217 Glossary The following abbreviations and expressions have the following meanings when used in this Annual Report: Abbott Abbott Pharmaceuticals PR Ltd. with respect to Trilipix Daiichi Sankyo Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited.
and or Certriad and Abbott Laboratories, Inc. with respect to Dainippon Sumitomo Dainippon Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals Crestor.
Affordable Care Act the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Director a director of the Company.
Act which was signed into law on 23 March 2010 as amended by earnings per share EPS profit for the year after tax and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act which was minority interests, divided by the weighted average number of signed into law on 30 March 2010.
Ordinary Shares in issue during the year.
ADR an American Depositary Receipt evidencing title to an ADS.
EMA the European Medicines Agency.
ADS an American Depositary Share representing one underlying EU the European Union.
FDA the US Food and Drug Administration, which is part of the AGM an Annual General Meeting of the Company.
US Department of Health and Human Services Agency, which is ANDA an abbreviated new drug application, which is a marketing the regulatory authority for all pharmaceuticals including biologics approval application for a generic drug submitted to the FDA.
and vaccines and medical devices in the US.
Annual Report this Annual Report and Form 20-F Forest Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Articles the Articles of Association of the Company.
Astellas Astellas Pharma, Inc. GIA AstraZenecas group internal audit.
Astra Astra AB, being the company with whom the Company gross margin the margin, as a percentage, by which sales merged in 1999. exceed the cost of sales, calculated by dividing the difference AstraZeneca the Company and its subsidiaries.
between the two by the sales gure.
Bureau Veritas Bureau Veritas UK Limited.
Group AstraZeneca PLC and its subsidiaries.
IAS the International Accounting Standards.
Board the Board of Directors of the Company.
IASB the International Accounting Standards Board.
BRIC-MT Brazil, Russia, India, China, Mexico and Turkey.
IFRS the International Financial Reporting Standards or an CEO the Chief Executive officer of the Company.
International Financial Reporting Standard, as the context requires.
krona or SEK references to the currency of Sweden.
CFO the Chief Financial officer of the Company.
CHMP the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, MAA a marketing authorisation application, which is an being a committee of the EMA.
application for authorisation to place medical products on the market.
This is a specic term used in the EU and European CIS Commonwealth of Independent States.
Code of Conduct the Groups Code of Conduct.
MAb monoclonal antibody, a biologic that is specic: that is, it Combined Code the UK Combined Code on Corporate binds to and attacks one particular antigen.
Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in MedImmune MedImmune, LLC formerly MedImmune, Inc.. June 2008 that sets out standards of good practice in corporate Merck Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp formerly Merck & Co. Inc.. governance for the UK.
Company or Parent Company AstraZeneca PLC formerly moving annual total MAT a gure that represents the financial Zeneca Group PLC Zeneca.
value of a variable for 12 months.
Complete Response Letter a letter issued by the FDA NDA a new drug application to the FDA for approval to market a communicating its decision to a drug company that its NDA new medicine in the US.
or biological licensing application is not approvable as submitted.
The submitting drug company is required to respond to the NGOs non-governmental organisations.
Complete Response Letter if it wishes to pursue an approval for its submission.
Corporate Integrity Agreement the agreement described NSAID a non-steroidal anti-inammatory drug.
in the US Corporate Integrity Agreement reporting section on NYSE the New York Stock Exchange.
page 43. operating profit sales, less cost of sales, less operating costs, cost growth rates percentage growth of a particular cost plus operating income.
category over the comparable cost category for the previous year.
Ordinary Share an ordinary share of $0.25 each in the share capital of the Company.
218 Glossary AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Targacept Targacept, Inc. Orphan Drug a drug which has been approved for use in a relatively low-incidence indication an orphan indication and has Teva Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. been rewarded with a period of market exclusivity: the period of Torrent Torrent Pharmaceuticals Ltd. exclusivity and the available orphan indications vary between markets.
TSR total shareholder return, being the total return on a share over a period of time, including dividends reinvested.
UK the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Paediatric Exclusivity in the US, a six-month period of exclusivity to market a drug which is awarded by the FDA in return UK Corporate Governance Code the new UK Corporate for certain paediatric clinical studies using that drug.
This six-month Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in period runs from the date of relevant patent expiry.
Analogous May 2010 that sets out standards of good practice in corporate provisions are available in certain other territories eg European governance for the UK.
US the United States of America.
Patent Term Extension an extension of up to five years in the US dollar, US$, USD or $ references to the currency of the US.
term of a US patent relating to a drug which compensates for delays in marketing resulting from the need to obtain FDA approval.
WHO the World Health Organization, the United Nations specialised agency for health.
Phase I the phase of clinical research where a new drug or treatment is tested in small groups of people 20 to 80 to check that the drug can achieve appropriate concentrations in the body, determine a safe dosage range and identify side effects.
This phase includes healthy volunteer studies.
Phase II the phase of clinical research which includes the controlled clinical activities conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the drug in patients with the disease under study and to determine the common short-term side effects and risks associated with the drug.
Phase II studies are typically conducted in a relatively small number of patients usually no more than several hundred.
Phase III the phase of clinical research which is performed to gather additional information about effectiveness and safety of the drug, often in a comparative setting, to evaluate the overall benefit risk prole of the drug.
Phase III studies usually include between several hundred and several thousand patients.
pounds sterling, GBP, pence or p references to the currency of the UK.
Redeemable Preference Share a redeemable preference share of 1 each in the share capital of the Company.
Regulatory Data Protection see the Intellectual Property section from page 30.
Regulatory Exclusivity any of the intellectual property rights arising from generation of clinical data and includes Regulatory Data Protection as explained in the Intellectual Property section from page 30, Paediatric Exclusivity and Orphan Drug status.
Rigel Rigel Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Sarbanes-Oxley Act the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
SEC the US Securities and Exchange Commission, the governmental agency that regulates the US securities industry stock market.
Seroquel Seroquel IR and Seroquel XR unless otherwise stated.
SET the Senior Executive Team.
SG&A costs selling, general and administrative costs.
sNDA a supplemental new drug application, which is an application made to the FDA to seek approval to market an additional indication for a drug already on the market.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Glossary 219
