statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also consolidated financial statements of the Group and financial responsible for preparing a directors report, a directors statements of the parent Company.
remuneration report and a statement on corporate governance that comply with the law and those regulations.
They are also responsible Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the information included on the Companys website.
consolidated financial statements of the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of the European Union EU and have elected to prepare the parent financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and applicable law.
This Annual Report complies with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR of the Financial Services Authority in respect of the The consolidated financial statements of the Group are required by requirement to produce an annual financial report.
law and IFRS to present fairly for each financial period the financial position and performance of the Group: the Companies Act 2006 The Annual Report and consolidated financial statements are the provides, in relation to such financial statements, that references in responsibility of, and have been approved by, the directors.
the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view, are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
Each of the directors confirms that, to the best of his knowledge: The parent Company financial statements are required by law to give the consolidated financial statements of the Group and parent a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent Company.
Company financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of In preparing each of the consolidated financial statements of the the assets, liabilities, financial position and the profit or loss of Group and parent Company financial statements, the directors are the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation required to: taken as a whole: and the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them performance of the business and the position of the Company and consistently: the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties state for the audited consolidated financial statements of the that they face.
Group whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: By Order of the Board state for the parent Company financial statements whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless Eric Hutchinson it is inappropriate to presume the Group and the parent Company Chief Financial Officer will continue in operational business for the foreseeable future.
3 March 2011 The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, for the Group, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards Regulation.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
40 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
