Scottish and Southern Energy 1 4 Annual Report 2010 Financial overview continued revenue on a reliable basis and delivering risk-adjusted, greater than the cost of 5.29bn at 31 March 2010 compared value in the long term.
The management capital, enhance earnings and contribute with 4.82bn at 31 March 2009. of the project portfolio will not be to dividend growth.
sacrificed in the interests of short-term The adjusted net debt of 5.29bn results concerns.
SSE keeps the economic in a Net Debt EBITDA ratio of around evaluation of its investment programme 2.9 on 31 March 2010 excluding SGN.
Financial management under continuous review and remains and balance sheet confident that significant value is being Strong cash flow from operations, created, based on actual project delivery including effective management of working and on the most up-to-date project costs Treasury policy capital has helped to keep the increase and schedules.
SSEs operations are generally financed in adjusted net debt to a lower level than by a combination of retained profits, expected, as have the adjustments to SSEs Future investment priorities bank borrowings, bond issuance and investment programme following the in 2010 11 and beyond commercial paper.
As a matter of policy, acquisition of a 25.1% stake in the Walney SSE expects its capital and investment a minimum of 50% of SSEs debt is subject offshore wind farm.
In summary while expenditure will be around 1.7bn during to fixed or inflation-linked rates of interest.
capital and investment expenditure was 2010 11 as significant projects such as the Within this policy framework, SSE borrows 1.3bn, the increase in adjusted net debt Clyde, Griffin and Greater Gabbard wind as required on different interest bases, with was limited to 470m.
farms and the Aldbrough gas storage derivatives and forward rate agreements facility continue to make progress and being used to achieve the desired out-turn Borrowings and facilities as other major developments, such as interest rate profile.
At 31 March 2010, The objective for SSE is to maintain a the replacement of the Beauly-Denny after taking account of interest rate swaps, balance between continuity of funding and transmission line, get under way.
75.1% of SSEs borrowings were at fixed flexibility, with debt maturities staggered Around 75% of SSEs 2008-13 investment or inflation-linked rates.
across a broad range of dates.
Its average programme is relatively low risk, involving debt maturity as at 31 March 2010 was well-established technologies such as Borrowings are mainly made in both 11.0 years, compared with 11.8 years at onshore wind farms, thermal power Sterling and Euro to reflect the underlying 31 March 2009. stations and electricity networks.
currency denomination of assets and cashflows within SSE.
All other foreign SSEs debt structure remains strong, with SSE constantly monitors its five-year currency borrowings are swapped back around 4.9bn of mediumto long-term investment programme, to make sure into Sterling.
borrowings in the form of issued bonds, that it is taking advantage of the best European Investment Bank debt and longopportunities to invest and that the best The United Kingdom remains SSEs main term project finance and other loans.
Less projects are prioritised and all at the area of operation, although business than 100m of mediumto long-term optimum time.
This was demonstrated activities in the Republic of Ireland are borrowings will mature in the year to by its decision to delay projects previously also substantial.
The balance of SSEs included in its 2008-13 programme in order exchange risk arises in respect of adjusted net debt is financed with shortto include within it the 367MW Walney procurement contracts, fuel and carbon term commercial paper and bank debt.
offshore wind farm, in which it acquired purchasing, commodity hedging and a 25.1% stake in December 2009.
A energy trading operations, and longFinancing investment significant factor in the decision to include term service agreements for plant.
SSEs investment programme is supported Walney in the investment programme was by its carefully-maintained balance sheet, the phased and performance-related SSEs policy is to hedge all material which remains one of the strongest in the nature of the total cash consideration transactional foreign exchange utility sector, in line with its established and construction costs.
exposures through the use of forward financial principles.
Its corporate credit currency purchases and or derivative ratings are now AStandard & Poors and The main components of risk involved in instruments.
In line with the trend across any individual investment decision market, exposures created by SSEs gas purchasing the energy and utility sectors, and with the technology and construction are all very are similarly hedged on an ongoing basis.
revisions to their ratings criteria which the carefully considered within the investment Translational foreign exchange risk arises agencies chose to make, they were both appraisal process and risk premia are in respect of overseas investments, and downgraded in 2009, having been on applied to the expected rate of return hedging in respect of such exposures negative watch following the acquisition where appropriate.
The need to maintain is determined as appropriate to the of Airtricity in 2008.
Nevertheless, they diversity within the programme is also circumstances on a case-by-case basis.
remain consistent with securing funding a factor in investment decision-making.
That part of SSEs 2008-13 investment Net debt and cash flow programme which is deemed to be higher On an unadjusted basis, SSEs net debt SSEs balance sheet position means it is risk around 25% involves technologies was 5.4bn at 31 March 2010, compared comparatively well-placed to raise finance such as offshore wind farms and gas with 5.1bn at 31 March 2009.
There and in a position to pay interest at lower storage and is generally undertaken were outstanding liquid funds of 109m rates than would otherwise be the case.
in partnership with other experienced at 31 March 2010 relating to power This is demonstrated by its success in developers in order to mitigate the purchase agreements and wholesale securing new funding and facilities totalling higher risks.
This illustrates the care energy transactions, the majority of which 4.8bn between July 2008 and March 2010, with which decisions are taken, to ensure was reconciled and settled in April 2010. despite the very difficult market conditions they are consistent with SSEs financial On an adjusted basis, therefore, including experienced by all borrowers during that principles, targeting returns which are these liquid funds, SSEs net debt was time.
