33 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information become deadlocked may be taken to the Energy customer numbers millions new Energy Supply Ombudsman.
During 2009 10, there were 374 SSE-related complaints to the Ombudsman, compared 2010 9.35 with 183 in the six months following the 2009 9.10 launch of the new arrangements in October 2008.
2008 8.49 2007 7.75 Although SSE maintained its best-insector position in customer service 2006 6.70 during 2009 10, it was a year in which the profile of the energy supply sector remained very high.
In total, SSEs Energy customer numbers composition % energy supply customers in Great Britain made 21 million calls to the Companys teams in Basingstoke, Cardiff, Cumbernauld, Havant and Perth during 2009 10.
These conversations allow SSE Household electricity GB 55 to assess, consider and respond to customers concerns and, over time, Household gas GB 38 adapt the services and products it Business sites GB 5 provides accordingly.
Household business Ire 2 SSE measures the performance of key customer service functions such as General Enquiries and House Moves through a Net Promoter Score NPS.
This comprises a 20m increase in service benchmark for the rest of the The most recent results suggest the the energy supply bad debt provision and energy supply industry.
To provide NPS ranges from 38% to 54%.
53m of debt write-off and compares with customers with the best possible value a charge of 35m in the previous year.
for money, SSE believes that it needs More broadly, SSE recognises that to provide best-in-sector service and energy supply in Great Britain is not As expected, given the general economic products, as well as competitive prices well-regarded among customers for climate, 2009 10 posed significant debt over the medium term.
In response the UK management challenges, with the volume government undertook to require energy of work in this area for SSEs Customer SSEs position as the customer service suppliers to publish information about Service division increasing.
SSE has benchmark for the rest of the energy available tariffs in annual statements.
sought to manage this situation by taking supply industry is illustrated by: In keeping with its commitment to further a number of steps, including rigorous improvements in customer service, and assessment of the credit-worthiness k the Customer Satisfaction Report maintaining its sector-leading position, of potential business customers and from www.
com, published SSE has committed to going above this making earlier contact with the customer in September 2009, in which SSE was requirement and publishing information business or household when it becomes ranked the best energy supplier for the on all bills.
This was welcomed by MPs apparent that payments are in arrears, so sixth successive time.
com from all parties in an Early Day Motion that the issues are more manageable from stated: SSE remains the customer in the House of Commons in March 2010. everyones point of view.
The work of officeservice benchmark for the rest of based credit agents is supplemented by the the industry.
: Web and email are now firmly established work of field-based teams the number and k the JD Power and Associates 2009 UK as the second most common means of geographic coverage of which has been Electricity and Gas Supplier Customer communication with the Company used increased who work with customers to Satisfaction Study, in which SSEs four by SSEs customers.
Around 18% of SSEs resolve debt.
supply brands took four of the top five transactions with customers now take places in electricity supply and gas place online and its customers now have As a result, aged debt among business supply, with its Atlantic brand ranked 490,000 paperless billing accounts, up customers has been reduced from 15m first in electricity: and from 287,000 a year before.
This, in turn, to 12m and aged debt levels were on a k the UK Customer Satisfaction Index, indicates that the popularity of e-services reducing trend towards the end of the published by the Institute of Customer such as paperless billing is likely to financial year.
Nevertheless, with the Service in January 2010, in which continue to increase rapidly over the economic outlook remaining uncertain, SSE was the top performer in the next few years.
Enabling customers there is a significant risk that aged debt Utilities sector.
to carry out more transactions online will remain at a high level in 2010 11. if they choose is now one of SSEs top Under the Consumer, Estate Agents and customer service priorities.
In line Energy supply operations Redress CEAR Act 2007, customers who with that, the capability of its websites customer service are unable to resolve issues with their were upgraded during 2009 10 to SSEs growth in energy supply has been energy supplier can take them up with create a technical platform to allow the achieved while being independently and Consumer Direct.
Complaints which are deployment of enhanced functionality consistently recognised as the customer not resolved within eight weeks, or which in the future.
