Intangible assets have been analysed as current and non-current as follows: 2010 2009 m m Current 213.3 213.9 Non-current: Goodwill 726.3 724.0 Other 288.2 253.0 1,227.8 1,190.9 105 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information i Allowances and Certificates Allowances and Certificates consist of purchased carbon emissions allowances and generated or purchased renewable obligations certificates ROCs.
ii Development assets Development costs relate to the design, construction and testing of thermal and renewable generation sites and devices which the Group believes will generate probable future economic benefits.
iii Wind farm developments Costs capitalised as development wind intangibles including options over land rights represent the costs incurred in bringing individual wind farm projects to the consented stage.
Costs associated with reaching the consent stage include planning application costs and environmental impact studies.
These may be costs incurred directly or at cost as part of the fair value exercise on acquisition of a controlling interest in a project.
At the point the development reaches the consent stage and is approved for construction, the carrying value is transferred to Property, Plant and Equipment note 11.
At the point a project is no longer expected to reach the consent stage, the carrying amount of the project is impaired.
The acquisitions in the year includes all items in note 15. iv Brands Included within brands are the acquired brands of Atlantic Electric and Gas and the Airtricity supply brand used in Ireland.
The Group has assessed the economic life of brands to be 10 years and the brands are being amortised over this period.
The charge is reported as part of operating costs.
v Other intangible assets Included within other intangible assets are customer lists, contracts, application software license fees, software development work, software upgrades and purchased PC software packages.
Amortisation is over the shorter of the contract term or five years.
impairment review of goodwill Goodwill is allocated to those cash-generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the respective business combination for impairment testing purposes.
Certain goodwill valuations have changed in the current year following retranslation.
A summary of the goodwill allocated to CGUs and the Groups operating segments is presented below: 2010 2009 Cash-generating unit Operating Segment m m Ireland wind farms Generation and Supply 160.3 164.4 UK wind farms Generation and Supply 232.0 241.0 European wind farms Generation and Supply 24.4 24.3 UK Supply Generation and Supply 187.0 187.0 UK Generation Generation and Supply 50.5 40.0 Gas Storage Other Businesses 58.7 56.2 Other i Other Businesses 13.4 11.1 726.3 724.0 i Represents goodwill balances across a number of business units.
The amount of goodwill allocated to these units is not significant compared to the aggregate carrying value of the business units or the aggregate value of goodwill held by the Group.
The conclusion of the impairment tests conducted is that no impairment is required.
The recoverable amount of the UK Supply, UK Generation, Gas Storage and Other CGUs is determined by reference to value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use, as a starting point, pre-tax cash flow projections based on the Groups five year business model as approved by the Board.
The Groups business model is based on past experience and reflects the Groups view of markets, prices, risks and its strategic objectives.
Commodity prices used are based on observable market data and, where this is not available, on internal estimates.
The recoverable amount of the wind farm CGUs is based on the fair value less costs to sell methodology.
The basis applied has been deemed appropriate as it is consistent with the way in which the economic value of the individual CGUs are assessed by management and would be by other market participants.
The method applied is to determine fair value by assessing the discounted pre-tax cash flows expected to be earned by the individual wind farm projects within the respective CGUs.
The three identified CGUs Ireland wind farms, UK wind farms, European wind farms share many of the same risk factors and are discounted accordingly.
Scottish and Southern Energy 1 06 Annual Report 2010 Notes on the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 10. iNTANGiBLE ASSETS continued The key assumptions used for the main value-in-use calculations are as follows: 2010 and 2009 2010 2009 Cash flow Discount rate Discount rate projection Cash-generating unit % % period years All wind farms onshore and offshore 9.5%-11.5% 10.0%-12.0% 25 UK Supply 10.2% 12.2% 5 UK Generation excluding wind 10.8% 10.5% 15 Gas Storage 10.8% 11.0% 20 Management have determined the pre-tax cash flows of each CGU based on past performance and its expectations of market development.
Further detail on how the cash flow projections have been derived is included in the specific commentaries.
The discount rates used are pre-tax nominal and reflect specific risks attributable to the relevant operating segments.
The discount rates used have been benchmarked against externally published rates used by comparable quoted companies operating in the respective market sectors.
The inflation rates used in estimating future income and expenditure are based on publicly available forecasts for the areas of operation of the CGU and internal estimates.
These have been set at 2.5% for all territories.
The recoverable amount derived from the value-in-use calculation is compared to the carrying amount of each CGU to determine whether the respective CGUs require to be impaired.
Specific comments on the key value-in-use and fair value less costs to sell calculations for the main CGUs and the results of the tests conducted follow: All wind farm CGus For goodwill impairment testing purposes, all wind farm CGUs were established following the acquisition of the Airtricity group in 2008.
In order to assess the respective recoverable amounts against an appropriate carrying value, goodwill has been allocated to the main geographic regions in which the business operates.
The established CGUs Ireland, UK, rest of Europe are then assessed by considering the specific market attributes of those regions.
Currency cash flows are set at the exchange rate at the time the impairment test is conducted.
Aside from these specific market factors, the basis of review of the respective CGUs is identical.
Wind farm projects have an estimated useful life of up to 25 years and it is considered appropriate by management to assess the carrying amount against cash flow projections covering this period.
The Ireland and UK wind CGUs include wind farms in operation and all CGUs include projects in the construction phase or in the development portfolio phase.
These development projects are those which have not received consent or have not concluded all environmental or planning studies and as a consequence the associated cash flows have been probability adjusted.
Cash inflows for all projects are based on expected generation output from projects based on wind studies and past experience and are valued at forward power prices based on market information, where available, continuing government support for wind ROCs and internal model assumptions.
Cash outflows are based on planned capital expenditure and expected maintenance costs.
The power prices and costs of operation are the most significant distinguishing factors in the respective CGU regions.
Growth is based on the expected output of the respective wind farms at their available operational capacity over their life cycle.
Outcome of tests The recoverable amounts of all wind farms CGUs exceeded the respective carrying values at the time of the impairment test.
While cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions applied in assessing the fair value less costs-to-sell would not cause a change to the conclusion reached.
107 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information uK Supply Goodwill carried in relation to the acquisition, in 2001, of Swalec is attributed to the Groups UK retail electricity and gas supply business CGU.
The Group manages its UK Generation and Supply activities as one integrated business but for the purposes of the value-in-use calculation only, the projected cash flows of the Supply business are considered independently.
This is reliant on judgement being applied in relation to the margin being earned by the Supply business.
The margin assumed is based on current contractual terms and historic gross margin percentages earned.
Revenues are based on the expected market share derived from the market share at the time of the approval of the business model adjusted for forecasted growth.
Growth in customer numbers is anticipated at around 2.6% per annum over the forecast period and cash outflows associated with increased customer service are incorporated accordingly.
This growth rate is supported by reference to both past performance and management expectation.
Margins also take account of forward wholesale energy price curves for both electricity and gas.
The CGU excludes the Airtricity supply business in Ireland, which did not have goodwill attributed to it in any event.
Outcome of test The recoverable amount of the UK Supply CGU exceeded the respective carrying value at the time of the impairment test.
While cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions applied in assessing the value-in-use would not cause a change to the conclusion reached.
uK Generation excluding wind Goodwill recognised on the Groups acquisition of Fiddlers Ferry and Ferrybridge FFF and Medway is attributed to the UK Generation portfolio CGU.
These plants are operated as part of the integrated Generation and Supply business segment.
For the purpose of the value-in-use calculation only, the projected cash flows of the main UK Generation plants have been considered as an independent CGU.
The plants included in this CGU include all gas, coal and hydro generation plants but excludes cash flows from contract energy plants, combined heat and power plants and embedded generation plants, as these plants operate independently of the main generation production portfolio.
Assumptions on market prices are made by reference to forward market prices and published market estimations, where available, and to internal model inputs beyond the observable period.
Prices forecast include wholesale power prices and input costs such as wholesale gas prices, coal and oil prices as well as carbon emissions costs.
Forecasts of availability and efficiency are based on management expectation and past performance.
Historic average temperatures and rainfall have been assumed.
The period of the cash flow projections applied is between 5 and 10 years but it should be noted that the assets which are the basis of the review have remaining useful economic lives of between 15 and, in the case of hydro civil assets, 100 years.
The discount rates applied have been standardised at a pre-tax nominal rate of 10.8%, compared with 10.5% in the prior year.
Growth has been assumed to follow the expected operational availability of the plants within the CGU over the period noted.
Outcome of test The recoverable amount of the main UK Generation CGU exceeded its carrying value at the time of the impairment test.
Gas Storage Goodwill was recognised on the acquisition of the Hornsea gas storage facility in 2002 03.
Initial cash flow projections are based on gross margins expected to be achieved in the period of the five year business model.
Beyond this period, cash flows have been extrapolated at a growth rate lower than the long-term growth rate of the economy for a further period of 15 years, which takes the CGU toward the end of its expected economic life.
This longer period more accurately reflects the long-term infrastructure nature of these assets and the returns that can be expected to be earned.
Assumptions on margin for the business plan period are based on expected demand for gas storage and take into account published and projected gas wholesale prices, planned capital expenditure required to maintain the value of the facility and estimated operating costs.
Outcome of test The recoverable amount of the gas storage CGU exceeded its carrying value at the time of the impairment test.
