31 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information highlighted that the energy supply Energy supply operations Supply businesses of the Big 6 act as a hedge customer numbers for the electricity generation businesses SSE supplies electricity and gas in Great Generally we found that the top priority of Britain as Southern Electric and SSE the vertically integrated energy businesses England, Swalec Wales, Scottish Hydro was to deliver profits from the business as Scotland and Atlantic.
During 2009 10, A sustainable supply a whole and that, as part of this, suppliers it achieved a net gain of 100,000 energy business is one which accepted that changing wholesale prices supply customer accounts in Great provides the energy may lead to profit shifting from upstream Britain, taking the total to 9.16 million.
and related products to downstream and vice versa.
This was the eighth successive year in and services that people which SSE achieved a net gain in energy actually need in the Ofgems February 2010 Report also supply customer numbers and means it higher-unit price, lowernoted the declining trend in domestic has more than doubled its total number carbon environment average gas consumption since 2005. in that period.
The total comprises: expected in the future.
This reflects the fact that obligations on energy suppliers to help customers make k 5.17 million domestic electricity energy savings have been in place since customer accounts: 1994.
In July 2009, it was announced that k 3.54 million domestic gas customer the current energy efficiency scheme, accounts: and k Electricity supply page 31 the Carbon Emissions Reduction Target k 0.45 million business electricity k Gas supply page 31 CERT, would be extended to 2012 and and gas sites.
k Home services page 35 that smart meters should be installed in every home by 2020.
In addition, the Within the total, 3.16 million customer Community Energy Saving Programme accounts are for loyalty products such Context CESP came into effect on 1 September as energyplus Argos, which rewards The Great Britain energy regulator, Ofgem, 2009.
It requires gas and electricity customers with money-off discount states on its website that: Competition suppliers and electricity generators vouchers, and energyplus Pulse, under in the retail energy markets has brought to deliver energy-saving measures to which customers are able to support considerable benefits to industrial, domestic customers in specific low the British Heart Foundation which commercial and domestic customers since income areas of Great Britain.
received 205,000 from SSE in respect it was introduced.
Allowing customers to of energyplus Pulse customers during choose the supplier of their choice keeps 2009 10, taking the total since the product the pressure on costs and promotes greater was launched to over 1.1m.
choice of tariffs and services for customers.
The total also includes M&S Energy, a This was endorsed by the UK Treasury dual fuel product launched in October and the UK Department of Energy and 2008 by SSE and Marks & Spencer Climate Change, who stated in March M&S.
The product is available to M&S 2010 that: In principle, competitive customers exclusively through M&S markets should provide the best outcome stores and website, and by 31 March 2010 for consumers.
The liberalisation of Great Energy supply objectives had attracted 175,000 customer accounts.
Britains market has delivered increased All of this demonstrates that the key choice in tariffs and services and the issues in energy supply are prices, During 2009 10, SSE, supplying energy ability to switch supplier.
It added that the products, customer service and energy as Airtricity, increased its customer base UKs electricity switching rate per annum efficiency.
Against this background, in the all-island electricity market in is the highest in Europe and the highest SSEs objective is to retain and gain Ireland from 50,000 accounts to 190,000. of any sizeable competitive energy market energy supply customers by: Of these accounts, 75% are household in the world.
Over the last five years, and 25% are industrial and commercial.
more energy and gas customers switched k offering consistently competitive supplier than in any other UK consumer prices over the medium term: Energy supply operations services sector of a comparable size, k providing market-leading products prices in Great Britain apart from car insurance.
and services to help transform energy Over the past few years, SSE has consumption: maintained a responsible pricing As part of its market monitoring role, k delivering a quality of service that policy, with the objectives of providing Ofgem publishes periodic reports on goes beyond best-in-sector: and consistently competitive prices over the developments in the domestic retail k successfully delivering energy medium term and protecting customers market and conducts investigations efficiency schemes.
from the full impact of volatile wholesale and consultations into the performance prices.
The application of this policy of the domestic and the non-domestic As consumption of energy changes, means SSE was the cheapest energy markets.
As retail competition develops the SSE believes that a sustainable supply supplier on average over the five years regulatory framework is kept under review.
business is one which provides the energy to 31 March 2010, compared to all other and the related products and services that major suppliers in the GB market based Ofgem published its most recent Electricity people actually need in the higher-unit on a standard quarterly or monthly direct and Gas Supply Market Report in February price, lower-carbon environment expected debit dual fuel annualised bill calculated 2010, which reiterated a key point from its in the future.
This is central to retaining at the end of every month averaged Energy Supply Probe in 2008: The Probe and gaining customers.
across all regions and based on industry
