23 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Gas-fired generation investment Total generation capacity MW Ofgems Project Discovery Energy Market Scenarios, published in October 2009, highlighted that Britain will face 2010 11,330 significant levels of gas imports, in 2009 10,740 particular for gas-fired power plants to replace lost nuclear and coal-fired 2008 10,530 generation capacity, and that this will 2007 10,017 increase the countrys exposure to uncertainties in the global gas market.
2006 10,015 To avoid over-dependence on a single fuel, SSE operates a diverse generation portfolio Generation capacity composition % and actively develops a diverse range of options to add to it.
At the same time, CCGT continues to be the benchmark technology in generation, making a growing contribution to meeting the UKs electricity requirements, because of its relatively low costs, short construction Gas oil 40 time and high thermal efficiency.
With a Coal biomass 39 carbon intensity around half that of coalRenewable 21 fired power stations, investment in CCGT assists in the transition to lower-carbon electricity generation.
The 840MW CCGT plant in Southampton developed by Marchwood Power Ltd, a but reflects the short-term fall in demand 50:50 joint venture between SSE and ESB for electricity following the economic International, became available for full downturn in the UK.
This demonstrates commercial operation in December 2009, that SSE has flexibility in the timing and making it the UKs first new gas-fired nature of the development flexibility it power station for five years.
All of the has already used to delay by around a year stations output is contracted to SSE.
the proposed development of the first phase of the power station.
With a net thermal efficiency in excess of 58%, Marchwood is one of the most In addition, SSE has identified other Coal and biomass generation efficient gas-fired power stations in the options for additional CCGT capacity.
SSEs total investment in Marchwood These include: During 2009 10, SSE generated was around 180m, comprising equity and 11.5TWh of electricity at its coal-fired debt, reflecting the fact the plant was k the potential development of new power stations at Fiddlers Ferry and procured before the significant increase capacity at Keadby power station.
Ferrybridge, compared with 7.8TWh in the in costs experienced in the electricity SSE has effective consent to develop previous year.
The stations achieved 92% generation sector in 2007 and 2008.
With 710MW of capacity at Keadby and in of their maximum availability to generate a construction cost of less than 500 kW, April 2009 it secured an agreement to electricity, excluding planned outages, it was a particularly well-timed and wellconnect a new 850MW power plant to compared with 89% in the previous year.
the electricity transmission network from 2016: and The increase in output reflects the In May 2009, SSE acquired Abernedd k the creation of additional capacity at removal, in the early part of 2009, of Power Company Limited from BP Barking Power Ltd, in which SSE has the constraints on running hours at the Alternative Energy.
Barking has consent to stations imposed by Article 5 1 of the for consent to construct and operate a develop a new 470MW CCGT, which Large Combustion Plant Directive LCPD, new CCGT power station, with a capacity if constructed would effectively add following hot commissioning of flue gas of over 800MW, on a brownfield site in around 140MW to the portfolio of gasdesulphurisation FGD equipment.
The Baglan Bay in South Wales, where there fired generation assets owned by SSE.
equipment has been installed to cover all is already in place electricity transmission, of the capacity at Fiddlers Ferry and half gas and water infrastructure for the first In April 2010, BG Group announced it of the capacity at Ferrybridge 3,000MW phase of the power station.
The total cash had reached an agreement to sell its in total, making it possible for it to remain consideration will be determined by the 50% interest in Seabank Power Limited, operational beyond 2015 subject to progress of the development.
Subject which operates the 1,140MW CCGT near emerging policy under the proposed to planning consent being secured, SSE Bristol in which SSE has the other 50% Industrial Emissions Directive.
The other has decided to schedule construction interest.
SSE has pre-emption rights in 1,000MW of capacity at Ferrybridge was of the new power station with a view respect of BG Groups interest in Seabank opted out of the LCPD and so operates to generation plant first becoming Power Limited, which it does not expect under restrictions on its ability to generate operational in around 2015 which is to exercise.
electricity and must close in 2015. slightly later than originally envisaged,
