Scottish and Southern Energy 86 Annual Report 2010 Notes on the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 1.
SiGNifiCANT ACCOuNTiNG POLiCiES continued k IFRS 2 Amendment Share-based Payments Vesting Conditions and Cancellations, is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This amendment restricts the definition of vesting conditions to a condition that includes an explicit or implicit requirement to provide services.
Any other conditions are non-vesting conditions which have to be taken into account to determine the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
In the case that the award does not vest as the result of a failure to meet a non-vesting condition that is within the control of either the entity or the counterparty, this must be accounted for as a cancellation.
The main impact of this amendment for the Group arises from cancellations by employees of contributions to the Groups Sharesave schemes: in the event of a cancellation the Group must recognise immediately the amount of the expense that would have otherwise been recognised over the remainder of the vesting period.
We have reviewed our Share Based Payments for the amendment and concluded that it has an immaterial impact on previously reported results and balances.
k IFRIC 12, Service concession arrangements, is effective for accounting periods ending on or after 29 March 2009.
This amendment applies to contractual arrangements whereby a private sector operator participates in the development, financing, operation and maintenance of infrastructure for public sector services, for example, under private initiative PFI contracts.
The Group has contracts with various local authorities under PFI arrangements.
These contracts qualify for accounting under IFRIC 12.
The adoption of IFRIC 12, which applies retrospectively, did not have a material impact on previously reported results and balances.
The following amendments to existing standards and interpretations were also effective for the current period, but the adoption of these amendments to existing standards and interpretations did not have a material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group: k IAS 23 Amendment, Borrowing Costs: k IAS 39 Amendment, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Reclassification of Financial Assets: k IFRS 1 Amendment, First-time adoption of IFRS, and IAS 27 Amendment, Presentation of Financial Statements Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation: k IFRIC 9 Amendment, Re-assessment of Embedded Derivatives, and IAS 39 Amendment, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: k IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes: and k IFRIC 15, Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate.
At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the following standards, amendments to existing standards and interpretations issued by the IASB and IFRIC, which have not been adopted in these Financial Statements, were in issue but not yet effective: k IFRS 3 Revised, Business Combinations, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009: k Improvements to IFRSs 2009, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 or later : k IFRS 2 Amendment, Share Based Payment Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions, effective for annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2010: k IAS 27 Revised, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009: k IFRIC 16, Hedges of Net Investment in a Foreign Operation: and k IFRIC 18, Transfers of Assets from Customers, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 31 October 2009.
The above have not been early adopted by the Group and the impact of adopting these standards and amendments to existing standards is currently being assessed.
Additionally, the following standards, amendments to existing standards and interpretations, which were also in issue at the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements but not yet effective and have not received EU endorsement have not therefore been adopted by the Group in these Financial Statements: k IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009: k IAS 39 Amendment, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009: and k IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Investments, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
Basis of consolidation The financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together with the Groups share of the results and net assets of its jointly controlled entities and associates.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries including special purpose entities are those entities controlled by the Group or the Company.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries acquired are consolidated in the financial statements of the Group from the date that control commences until the date control ceases.
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method of accounting.
