Scottish and Southern Energy 34 Annual Report 2010 Business overview continued This fulfilled SSEs voluntary agreement Domestic customers payment methods % with the UK government to operate schemes with a total value of 22m to help vulnerable customers in 2009 10.
Under this agreement, SSEs contribution will increase to around 27m in 2010 11.
In addition to this, SSE issued credits worth a total of almost 3.5m in January Direct debit 58 2010 to its 280,000 customers using gas Pre-payment 11 pre-payment meters to assist them during the coldest part of the year.
Credit terms 31 The Energy Act 2010 created a statutory framework for schemes which allow the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change to require energy suppliers to Energy supply operations CESP and CERT will require the support vulnerable customers under the energy efficiency commitment of significant resources by existing voluntary agreement see above.
Using energy more efficiently is the energy suppliers, including SSE, in the It also set a framework requiring energy fastest and most cost-effective way coming years.
Nevertheless, SSE supports suppliers to provide a specified level of of reducing customers energy costs, the goal of securing substantial savings in social price support direct assistance with sustaining supplies for the long term and energy bills and reductions in emissions energy bills to more of the most vulnerable reducing emissions of carbon dioxide.
As of carbon dioxide and achieving greater customers.
Further details, including an energy supplier, SSE has obligations energy efficiency continues to be the the nature of the benefit and the eligibility under the CERT scheme to deliver energy most sustainable way of achieving this.
criteria, will be set out in secondary efficiency measures to households legislation after a consultation later this year.
throughout Great Britain and in 2009 10 Energy supply operations funded the installation of cavity wall vulnerable customers It is SSEs policy to do all it can to help insulation in 146,000 homes and loft While any type of poverty, including fuel customers who may be having difficulties insulation in 128,000 homes excluding poverty, fundamentally results from an in paying for the electricity and gas they DIY insulation.
This is up from 87,000 individual or household having insufficient use by offering tailor-made payment homes and 104,000 homes respectively.
income, SSE recognises that it has a arrangements that suit their needs and significant role to play in reducing its their circumstances.
In March 2010, In its CERT Annual Report, a review of customers energy consumption and thus customers with 233,000 electricity and CERT in 2008 09, published in August the associated costs and a role also in gas accounts were taking advantage 2009, Ofgem stated that SSE had met half helping those of its customers who struggle of these arrangements.
of its overall carbon emissions reduction to pay for their basic energy needs.
obligation for the three years to 2011.
SSE Energy supply operations also achieved the highest level of solid SSEs social tariff, energyplus care, gives energy products wall insulation for hard-to-treat properties eligible dual fuel customers a discount Energy supply remains intensely competitive among all the obligated energy suppliers.
compared with its standard tariff, as well and gaining and retaining customers loyalty as other help including benefit entitlement is key to long-term success.
At a time of Complementing CERT, the CESP aims checks and free energy efficient appliances higher energy prices, better plan is at the to deliver energy efficiency measures and home insulation.
During 2009 10, SSE centre of the portfolio of products and on a community basis.
The CESP will implemented a two-tier level of assistance services which SSE currently markets.
promote a whole house approach, to for fuel-poor customers, featuring a rebate It offers a variety of incentives to help be delivered through the development of as well as energyplus care, and thus has customers use less energy and earn credits community-based partnerships involving been able to assist a larger number of as a result.
The credits are then applied local authorities and energy suppliers customers than would be the case if the as a reduction to customers energy bills.
via a house-by-house, street-by-street flat rate was maintained.
SSEs first CESP programmes customer accounts benefiting from these SSE launched better plan towards the will begin during 2010 11 at locations measures at 31 March 2010 was 155,000, end of 2007 as part of its commitment throughout England, Scotland and Wales.
compared with 103,000 the previous year.
to work in partnership with its customers to help them reduce their energy use and to create a more sustainable level of energy consumption.
During 2009 10, customers with an additional 50,000 energy accounts joined better plan, Using energy more efficiently is the taking the total to 215,000. fastest and most cost-effective way Increasingly, smart technologies will feature in SSEs products and it is working of reducing customers energy costs, on a number of options for using new technology to provide customers with sustaining supplies for the long term and greater control over their energy consumption and, therefore, its cost.
reducing emissions of carbon dioxide.
