149 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information b Leases as lessor: The Group previously leased out two combined heat and power plants under finance leases.
During the year the Group disposed of these plants to the lessee resulting in a gain of 0.3m recorded in the Income Statement.
Therefore, the future minimum lease payments are as follows: 2010 2009 m m Within one year 0.3 In second to fifth years inclusive 1.0 After five years 0.5 1.8 During the year ended 31 March 2010 0.1m was recognised as rental income in the income statement 2009 0.3m.
Lease payments are straight line over the term of the lease.
The Company has no operating lease commitments as either a lessee or a lessor.
iii Guarantees and indemnities The Company and various subsidiaries have provided guarantees on behalf of subsidiary, joint venture and associated undertakings as follows: 2010 2009 m m Bank borrowing 18.3 Performance of contracts 2,042.1 2,309.0 Purchase of gas 60.5 70.5 Following the acquisition from Fluor International Limited of their 50% stake in Greater Gabbard Offshore Winds Limited in April 2008, the Company entered into guarantees in respect of 100% of the major contracts for this project which is reflected in the above guarantees.
Following the sale of 50% to npower renewables Limited in November 2008, the Company is now indemnified for 50% of these guarantees.
In addition, unlimited guarantees have been provided on behalf of subsidiary undertakings in relation to five contracts in respect of performance of work and any liabilities arising.
Southern Electric Power Distribution plc and the Company have provided guarantees to the Southern Group of the ESPS in respect of the funding required by the scheme.
Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution plc and the Company have provided guarantees to the Scottish Hydro Electric Pension Scheme in respect of the funding required by the scheme.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
POST BALANCE ShEET EvENTS On 31 March 2010, the Group through its wholly-owned subsidiary, SSE E&P UK Limited, has entered into an agreement with Hess Limited to acquire its natural gas and infrastructure assets in the three regions of the North Sea.
On successful completion the Group expects to pay a total cash consideration of up to US$423m.
The transaction is subject to the receipt of all necessary partner and regulatory approvals, as such the potential acquisition has not been included in the financial results for the year ended 31 March 2010.
The transaction is expected to be concluded during the next financial year.
