85 Introduction to SSE Notes on the financial statements Directors report for the year ended 31 March Financial statements Shareholder information 1.
SiGNifiCANT ACCOuNTiNG POLiCiES General information Scottish and Southern Energy plc the Company is a company domiciled in Scotland.
The address of the registered office is given on the back cover.
The Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Directors Report on pages 6 to 46.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement and related notes.
Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 18 May 2010.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and its interpretations as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS.
Going concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and has sufficient short-term and medium-term facilities to meet its funding requirements for 2010 11.
In addition, the Group expects to issue further debt in the capital markets in 2010 11.
The Financial Statements are therefore prepared on a going concern basis.
Further details of the Groups liquidity position and going concern review are provided in note 28 of the Financial Statements on page 138.
Basis of measurement The financial statements of the Group and the Company are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments, biological assets and the assets of the Group pension schemes which are stated at their fair value, and the liabilities of the Group pension schemes which are measured using the projected unit credit method.
The Directors believe the financial statements present a true and fair view.
The financial statements of the Group and Company are presented in pounds sterling.
Operations and transactions conducted in currencies other than pounds sterling are included in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Groups foreign currencies accounting policy.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements conforming with adopted IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher level of judgement or estimation are summarised at pages 93 and 94.
Exceptional items and certain remeasurements As permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, the Group has disclosed additional information in respect of jointly controlled entities and associates, exceptional items and certain remeasurements on the face of the income statement to aid understanding of the Groups financial performance.
An item is treated as exceptional if it is considered unusual by nature and scale and of such significance that separate disclosure is required for the financial statements to be properly understood.
Certain remeasurements are remeasurements arising on certain commodity, interest rate and currency contracts which are accounted for as held for trading or as fair value hedges in accordance with the Groups policy for such financial instruments.
This excludes commodity contracts not treated as financial instruments under IAS 39 where held for the Groups own use requirements.
Standards, amendments and interpretations The following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations have been adopted by the Group from 1 April 2009: k IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures amendment is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendment requires enhanced disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
In particular, the amendment requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of a fair value measurement hierarchy.
As the amendment only results in additional disclosures, there is no impact on the Groups reported results.
k IFRS 8 Operating Segments, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, replaces IAS 14, Segment Reporting and requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker, which has been identified as the Board.
The adoption of IFRS 8 has led to a change in the segmental information disclosed, but has had no impact on the Groups reportable segments or on the reported results or financial position of the Group.
Further information can be found in note 2. k IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The revised standard prohibits the presentation of income and expense in the statement of changes in equity, requiring nonshareholder changes in equity to be presented separately from shareholder changes in equity.
All non-shareholder changes in equity are required to be presented in a performance statement.
IAS 1 Revised permits a choice as to whether to present a single performance statement being a Statement of Comprehensive Income or two statements being an Income Statement and a Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Group has elected to present two statements.
Other changes introduced by the revised standard include a requirement to give the Statement of Changes in Equity equal prominence to the other Primary Statements.
These Financial Statements have been prepared under the revised disclosure requirements.
