151 Introduction to SSE Glossary Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information BOfA disability benefits and pensioners over the government.
Operators must ensure that Boosted Over Fire Air: a technology used age of 70.
There are currently proposals in they have sufficient certificates to cover in some modern coal-fired power stations place to increase the amount of savings to their installations emissions and have which reduces the amount of nitrogen 185MT of CO and extend the time period the option to buy additional certificates 2 oxides produced by forcing air into the of the program to December 2012. from other operators or to sell surplus boiler at a higher rate and a higher certificates.
EU ETS is one of the most position than usual, causing the coal CESP important aspects in Europes policies for to burn at a lower temperature than Community Energy Saving Programme: meeting its Kyoto Protocol commitments.
part of the governments Home Energy Saving Programme.
It requires larger gas Eu Renewable Energy Directive Carbon dioxide CO and electricity suppliers and electricity European legislation which places a legally- 2 One of the so-called greenhouse gasses generators to deliver energy saving binding commitment on member States believed to contribute to global warming.
measures to domestic consumers in to increase the total proportion of energy specific low income areas of Great Britain.
derived from renewable sources 20% by Carbon Disclosure Leadership index The Department for Energy and Climate 2020.
Each Member State has its own An assessment, undertaken by the Carbon Change DECC is responsible for setting target which reflects its current renewable Disclosure Project which considers the the overall CESP target and the policy energy provision: the UKs target is 15%.
quality of organisations disclosure on framework and Ofgem is responsible All forms of energy usage are covered climate change-related issues.
Participating for administering the programme.
by this target, including transport.
companies complete a detailed survey which requires information on the Clean-tech fGD organisations climate change-related Products, services, and processes Flue Gas Desulphurisation: the process strategy and targets and data on emissions.
that harness renewable materials and of removing sulphur dioxide from the energy sources, reduce the use of natural exhaust flue gases in fossil-fuelled Carbon Disclosure Project resources, and cut or eliminate emissions primarily coal power stations.
FGD can remove between 90 and 94% of sulphur A not-for-profit organisation representing and wastes.
top institutional investors which provides a database of corporate climate changeConsumer Direct Gas storage related information to support their A government-funded telephone and The storage of natural gas, usually in investment decisions.
online service offering information under ground chambers, for release into and advice on consumer issues.
the gas network at times of high demand, CCGT or when market prices are high.
Combined Cycle Gas Turbines: turbines Consumer focus which utilise a more efficient process in An organisation set up by the government in Gigawatt GW the production of electricity.
Waste heat 2008 formed by the merger of energywatch, 1,000 megawatts 1,000,000,000 watts.
from the gas-firing process which drives Postwatch and the National Consumer the first energy-generating turbine is used Council to represent the interests of Gigawatt hour GWh to heat water to steam which then drives consumers in the UK.
Distribution Price Control Review integrated Pollution Control iPC CCS A five-yearly review undertaken by industry and integrated Pollution Prevention Carbon Capture and Storage: a means regulator Ofgem in conjunction with and Control iPPC of mitigating the contribution of fossil licensed electricity distribution operators Systems to control pollution from fuel emissions to climate change which to ensure that the operators can earn a industry, enforced by the Environment involves capturing carbon dioxide fair return after their efficient capital and Agency and Scottish Environmental produced at large sources of emissions, operating costs are taken into account.
such as power stations, and storing it The most recent review relates to the Price away from the atmosphere.
The carbon Control which applies from 1 April 2010.
Kilovolt kv dioxide can be extracted either before 1,000 volts.
or after the fuel is burnt.
Emission Limit values Limits set by the Large Combustion Plant Kilowatt kW CERT Directive relating to the concentrations 1,000 watts.
Carbon Emissions Reduction Target: an of oxides of sulphur and nitrogen and obligation placed by the government on of particulates emitted by installations Kilowatt hour kWh large energy suppliers which requires them including large fossil-fuelled power One unit of electricity.
to reduce the amount of CO produced as a stations.
These emissions are measured 2 result of the energy used by householders in real-time actual levels of emissions.
Large Combustion Plant Directive Great Britain.
The aim of the current CERT European legislation introduced in 2001 to program, which is due to run from April Eu ETS control emissions of oxides of sulphur and 2008 to March 2011, is to deliver measures European Union Emissions Trading nitrogen and of particulates from sources that will provide overall lifetime CO System: an annual scheme which 2 of large quantities of emissions, including savings of 154 million tonnes.
Under CERT, allocates and facilitates the trading of power stations.
All newer installations suppliers must focus 40 per cent of their greenhouse gas emissions allowances licensed from 1987 onwards must activity on a priority group of vulnerable throughout the EU.
Operators of comply with Emission Limit Values ELVs, and low-income households.
These include installations covered by the scheme are while older installations can choose either those in receipt of certain income and or allocated certificates annually by their Scottish and Southern Energy 1 52 Annual Report 2010 Glossary continued to: comply with ELVs: take part in the of which costs are included in the RAV.
Run-of-river National Emissions Reduction Plan: or From 1 April 2010, 85% of all network Hydro electric generation schemes opt out, which requires that installations related expenditure will be funded as which utilise the energy from flowing operate only for limited hours and close slow money over 20 years through the watercourses, as opposed to water that down by the end of 2015.
The remaining 15% of network costs has been collected and stored.
and all business support costs will be Megawatt MW funded as fast money, expensed and SCR 1,000 kilowatts 1,000,000 watts.
funded in the year of expenditure.
Selective Catalytic Reduction: a method of converting oxides of nitrogen, which Megawatt hour MWh REfiT are associated with acid rain, into inert 1,000 units of electricity.
Renewable Energy Feed In Tariff: a nitrogen and water.
SCR can be installed scheme applicable in the Republic of in new build power stations or retro-fitted Nitrogen oxides NO Ireland that financially supports suppliers to existing facilities.
x Toxic gasses produced by the combustion who purchase renewable energy and of carbon-based primary fuels by transport thereby encourages provision of a Security of supply and in power stations see also SO.
In the context of electricity supply in 2 the UK, the degree to which the energy Offshore Wind Accelerator OWA Regulated businesses infrastructure can be relied upon to A research and development initiative Parts of SSEs operations which are generate, transmit and distribute co-funded by the Carbon Trust and five subject to regulation by Ofgem or other electricity such that the needs of all energy companies, including SSE, which industry regulators such as Ofcom.
aims to speed up the rate at which offshore wind technology develops.
This includes Renewables Obligation RO SOfA developing new turbine foundations and The main support scheme for renewable Separated Over Fire Air: a technology used installation techniques, improving access electricity projects in the UK.
Under in some modern coal-fired power stations for maintenance, identifying the best way to the RO electricity suppliers in the UK which reduces the amount of nitrogen lay out offshore wind farms and researching are required to source an increasing oxides produced by introducing air into the how to minimise the amount of energy proportion of the energy they supply to boiler at a higher point in the combustion lost in transmitting energy back to shore.
The process, causing the coal to burn at a lower renewable energy is certified through the temperature than in traditional plants.
Ofgem issue of Renewable Obligation Certificates Office of Gas and Electricity Markets: the ROCs.
Suppliers fulfil their obligation Sulphur dioxide SO 2 government regulator for the electricity through the presentation of ROCs.
If a Toxic gasses produced by the combustion and downstream natural gas markets in supplier has a shortfall in its provision of carbon-based primary fuels by transport Great Britain.
Its role is to promote choice of renewable electricity, it must pay into and in power stations see also NO.
x and value for current and future gas and a fund, the proceeds of which are paid electricity customers.
Funding is from back out to suppliers in proportion to the TRiR annual licence fees recovered from ROCs they present.
Only certain forms of Total Recordable Injury Rate: a recognised licensed network companies.
renewable energy qualify for this scheme.
measure of the total number of injuries per 100,000 hours worked.
Injuries in Retro-fitting Peak oil this context are defined as those which: In the context of sustainable electricity The point in time at which maximum are reportable to the Health and Safety generation, installing new technologies to global oil production is achieved, prior Executive: result in absence from work: or existing plant in order that the plant can to a decline in production.
which require invasive medical treatment operate more effectively under modern such as stitches.
May include equipment Pumped storage to reduce emissions of oxides of nitrogen A form of electricity generation which uK industry Task force on Peak Oil and of sulphur, or to increase the thermal uses the energy stored in water pumped A group of British companies, including efficiency of plant, or to capture and store from a lower level to an elevated reservoir SSE, whose interests span a wide range carbon emissions.
Whilst the process of business sectors.
The Task Force aims is a net user of energy, pumped storage to highlight the importance of being ROCs is valuable as it can utilise low cost energy prepared for an oil crunch when the era Renewables Obligation Certificates: at times of low demand to raise water to of relatively cheap oil extraction ends.
certificates issued by Ofgem for the the upper reservoir and can generate energy generated by eligible renewable electricity at very short notice, helping generators in accordance with the balance supply and demand.
RAv RPi-x Regulated Asset Value, a key building The basis of Ofgems price control block of a price control review.
It is a mechanisms in place since 1989, which financial construct for providing funds ties revenue and expenditure growth to over a prolonged period and represents the retail price index RPI minus or plus the value upon which companies earn X percentage points.
Currently the subject a regulated return.
At the most recent of a review by Ofgem which is due to Distribution Price Control Review DPCR5 conclude in late summer 2010.
Ofgem undertook a fundamental review Introduction to SSE Financial statements 01 What SSE does 77 Independent auditors report 02 How SSE provides energy 78 Consolidated income statement 79 Statement of comprehensive income Directors report 80 Balance sheets 04 Key performance indicators 81 Statement of changes in equity 05 Principal assets 83 Cash flow statements 06 Chairman and Chief Executive 85 Notes on the financial statements Questions and answers 85 1.
Significant accounting policies 08 Strategic overview 94 2.
Other operating income and expense 16 Performance indicators 98 4.
Exceptional items and certain 20 Business overview remeasurements 47 Corporate governance 99 5.
Directors and employees 47 Chairmans introduction 100 6.
Finance income and costs 48 The SSE team 101 7.
Dividends 56 How the Board works 103 9.
Earnings per share 60 Audit Committee 104 10.
Intangible assets 62 Risk and Trading Committee 108 11.
Property, plant and equipment 63 Nomination Committee 109 12.
Biological assets 64 Safety, Health and Environment 110 13.
Subsidiary undertakings 65 Remuneration Report Introduction 115 15.
Acquisitions and disposals 66 Remuneration Report At a glance 117 16.
Trade and other receivables explained 118 18.
Cash and cash equivalents 72 Remuneration Report Remuneration in detail 118 19.
Current tax liabilities 75 Other statutory information 119 21.
Post balance sheet events Shareholder information 150 Shareholder information 151 Glossary Unless otherwise stated, this Annual Report describes adjusted operating profit before exceptional items, the impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39 and after the removal of taxation and interest on profits from jointly-controlled entities and associates.
In addition, it describes adjusted profit before tax before exceptional items, the impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39 and after the removal of taxation on profits from jointly-controlled entities and associates.
It also describes adjusted earnings and earnings per share before exceptional items, the impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39 and deferred tax.
Designed and produced by Tayburn Corporate PROVIDING THE ENERGY PEOPLE NEED IN A RELIABLE AND SUSTAINABLE WAY Scottish and Southern Energy plc Annual Report 2010 For further information about SSE, please contact: Scottish and Southern Energy plc Corporate Affairs Inveralmond House 200 Dunkeld Road Perth PH1 3AQ UK In producing this report we have chosen production methods which aim to minimise the impact on our environment.
The papers chosen T: 44 0 1738 456000 Revive 50:50 Silk and Revive 100 Uncoated contain 50% and E: info@sse.
com 100% recovered waste respectively and conform to government requirements for recycled paper.
They are also certified as FSC www.
Both the paper mill and printer involved in this production are environmentally accredited with ISO 14001.
Follow the latest news The printer is also registered as a Carbon Neutral company.
from SSE on Twitter at: www.
com sseplc Registered in Scotland No.
117119 Scottish and Southern Energy plc STOCK CODE 008234 Annual Report 2010 PROVIDING THE ENERGY PEOPLE NEED IN A RELIABLE AND SUSTAINABLE WAY The 2010 Annual Report and Notice of Annual General Meeting may now be accessed at www.
This document contains highlights from the full report.
To vote on the resolutions proposed at the forthcoming AGM shareholders should complete the Form of Proxy and or Form of Direction enclosed with this document and return in the envelope provided.
Alternatively you can submit your form s electronically at www.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc Summary Report 2010
