coMpAnY AccountIng polIcIes As used in the financial statements and related notes, the term c InvestMents Company refers to SSL International plc.
The separate financial Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provisions for any statements of the Company are presented as required by the impairment.
Companies Act 2006 and have been prepared in accordance with d tAxAtIon UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices.
The charge for taxation is based on the loss profit for the year and A list of principal subsidiary undertakings is presented on takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences page 101. between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
BAsIs oF pRepARAtIon Credit is taken for advance corporation tax written off in The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as previous years when it is recovered against corporation tax liabilities.
required by the Companies Act 2006.
As permitted by the Act, the In accordance with FRS 19, deferred tax is provided where a separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with taxation liability will arise as a result of transactions or events which UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices UK GAAP.
The have occurred by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are accounting policies under UK GAAP are presented below.
recognised to the extent that it is regarded that they will be recovered.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical Provision is made at rates expected to be applicable when the liabilities cost basis, with the exception of financial instruments as described or assets are likely to crystallise.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is e FoReIgn cuRRencIes exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of account.
The loss for the financial year dealt with in the financial exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and statements of the Parent Company, SSL International plc, is disclosed liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the in note x.
The Company has taken the exemption from the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses on requirement to prepare a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 transactions are included in the profit and loss account.
F deRIvAtIve FInAncIAl InstRuMents The following paragraphs describe the main accounting In accordance with exemptions under FRS 29: Financial Instruments: policies.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years Disclosures, the Company has not presented the financial instruments presented.
disclosures required by the standard, as disclosures which comply with A tAngIBle FIxed Assets the standard are included in the consolidated financial statements.
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to reduce Depreciation is provided to write tangible fixed assets down to a exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements.
The residual value over their estimated useful economic lives at the Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for following annual rates: speculative purposes.
Plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis With the exception of derivative financial instruments, and over a period of between four and 15 years.
those hedged items forming part of a fair value hedge, financial instruments are held at amortised cost.
B IntAngIBle Assets Software developments and licences capitalised are stated at cost less heDge accounting accumulated amortisation and are amortised on a straight-line basis The accounting for the Companys various hedging activities is over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: detailed overleaf: software development: five to 10 years software licences: over the length of the licence 104 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 coMpAnY AccountIng polIcIes continueD i transaction exposure heDging g shARe BAsed pAYMents Forward currency contracts hedging transaction exposures are fair The Company operates a number of employee share schemes.
The valued through the profit and loss account.
cost to the Company of making awards in the form of shares or rights to shares under these schemes is charged to the profit and loss account ii Fair value heDges as an employee expense over the period to which the employees Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when performance relates.
The Company issues equity settled share based they hedge the Companys exposure to changes in the fair value of a payments to certain employees of the Company and its subsidiary recognised asset or liability.
Any gain or loss from remeasuring the undertakings.
Equity settled share based payments are measured at hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the profit and loss fair value at the grant date using an appropriate valuation model, taking account.
Any change in the fair value of the hedged item, attributable into account the terms and conditions precedent at the time of grant.
to the hedged risk, is adjusted against the carrying value of the hedged The impact of any non-market vesting conditions is excluded.
item and recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is iii cash Flow heDges determined by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments Changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instruments granted and the number of equity instruments which eventually vest.
designated as a cash flow hedge are recognised directly in equity to At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the the extent that the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the hedge is number of instruments that are expected to vest.
It recognises the ineffective, changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss.
impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the profit and loss Derivative financial instruments qualifying for fair value hedge account, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining accounting are principally foreign currency and interest rate swaps.
When awards are made to employees of subsidiary undertakings and the fair value of the award is not recharged to the Discontinuance oF heDge accounting subsidiary, the award is treated as a capital contribution to the Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when the hedging subsidiary, with a corresponding increase in the cost of investment.
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
h dIvIdend IncoMe Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings is recognised within other income at the point the dividend has been declared.
Dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised in the profit and loss account.
I RelAted pARtY tRAnsActIons The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available in FRS 8: Related Party Disclosures and has not disclosed transactions or balances with wholly-owned subsidiaries.
