52 53 STATEMENT of DIRECToRS RESpoNSIbIlITIES IN RESpECT of ThE ANNUAl REpoRT AND ThE fINANCIAl STATEMENTS governAnce AnnuAl report And Accounts 2010 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also Group and Parent Company financial statements, in accordance with responsible for preparing a Directors report, Directors remuneration applicable law and regulations.
report and Corporate governance statement that complies with that law Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and and those regulations.
Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
accordance with UK accounting standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
responsiBility stAtement of the directors in respect Under Company law the Directors must not approve the of the AnnuAl finAnciAl report financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: liabilities, financial position and loss of the Company and the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the Directors report, Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review and Financial review include a fair review of the development and for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been performance of the business and the position of the Company and prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to that they face.
any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and m. morAn DIRECTOR prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company g. wAtts will continue in business.
DIRECTOR The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 17 MAy 2010 records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
