72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 102 Independent auditors report to the members of Stagecoach Group plc Company No.
SC100764 We have audited the parent company financial statements of Stagecoach Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Group plc for the year ended 30 April 2010 which comprise the Company Companies Act 2006 balance sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that In our opinion: has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been Practice.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent Respective responsibilities of directors and with the parent company financial statements.
auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities in Matters on which we are required to report by respect of the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the exception financial statements set out on page 21, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for not visited by us: or Auditors.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the accounting records and returns: or Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come made: or save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in Other matter the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the We have reported separately on page 40 on the consolidated financial financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by statements of Stagecoach Group plc for the year ended 30 April 2010. fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Michael Timar Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Opinion on financial statements Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors In our opinion the parent company financial statements: Glasgow give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 April 23 June 2010 2010: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. page 102 | Stagecoach Group plc
