72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 46 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies These consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the presentational currency of the Group, and the functional currency of the Company and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
New accounting standards adopted during the year The following new accounting standards and amendments to standards are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 May 2009: IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised September 2007.
The revised standard prohibits the presentation of items of income and expense that is non-owner changes in equity in the statement of changes in equity, requiring non-owner changes in equity to be presented separately from owner changes in equity.
All non-owner changes in equity are required to be shown in a performance statement.
Entities can choose whether to present one performance statement the statement of comprehensive income or two statements the income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
The Group has elected to present two statements: an income statement and a statement of comprehensive income.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Amendment re vesting conditions and cancellations.
The amendment clarifies that only service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
Any other conditions are non-vesting conditions, which have to be taken into account to determine the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
In the case that the award does not vest as the result of a failure to meet a non-vesting condition that is within the control of either the entity or the counterparty, this must be accounted for as a cancellation.
The main impact of this amendment for the Group arises from cancellations by employees of contributions to the Groups Save as You Earn SAYE scheme: in the event of a cancellation the Group must recognise immediately the amount of the expense that would have otherwise been recognised over the remainder of the vesting period.
The amendment is to be applied retrospectively, however no adjustment has been made to prior year comparatives as the adjustment would be immaterial.
IFRS 7 revised March 2009, Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendments enhancing disclosures about fair value and liquidity risk.
The amendments expand the disclosures required in respect of fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position.
The impact of adopting IFRS 7 revised March 2009 was only one of disclosure.
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations were mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 May 2009, but do not have any significant effect on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application: Various amendments resulting from May 2008 Annual Improvements to IFRSs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Amendment relating to cost of an investment on first-time adoption IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Amendment relating to disclosure of puttable instruments and obligations arising on liquidation IAS 23 Borrowing Costs, revised March 2007 IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amendment relating to cost of an investment on first-time adoption IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Amendment relating to puttable instruments and obligations arising on liquidation IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Amendment for embedded derivatives IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Amendment in relation to reclassification of financial assets IFRIC 9 Embedded Derivatives amended IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation The Group early adopted IFRS 8, Operating Segments, as of 1 May 2008.
The Group concluded that the operating segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8 are equivalent to the business segments previously identified under IAS 14.
IFRS 8 disclosures are shown in note 2.
New standards and interpretations not applied The International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date for financial years beginning on or after the dates disclosed below and therefore after the date of these financial statements: International Accounting Standards and Interpretations Effective date Amendments resulting from April 2009 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 1 July 2009 and later Amendments resulting from May 2010 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 1 January 2011 and later IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards revised November 2008 1 July 2009 IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards revised July 2009 1 January 2010 IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards revised January 2010 1 July 2010 IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Amendment re group cash-settled share-based payment transactions 1 January 2010 IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised January 2008 1 July 2009 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classification and Measurement revised November 2009 1 January 2013 IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures revised November 2009 1 January 2011 IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised January 2008 1 July 2009 IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures revised January 2008 1 January 2009 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Amendment re classification of rights issue 1 February 2010 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Amendment for eligible hedged items 1 July 2009 IFRIC 14 Amendment re Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement 1 July 2010 IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners 1 July 2009 IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers 1 July 2009 IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 1 July 2010 The Directors are currently reviewing the requirements of the above standards and interpretations to determine whether they will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Comparatives Where appropriate, comparative figures for the previous year have been adjusted to conform to changes in presentation.
These changes have no impact on the consolidated income statement or on consolidated net assets liabilities.
page 46 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 47 Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation continued The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates made up to 30 April in each year.
The consolidated income statement includes the results of businesses purchased from the effective date of acquisition and excludes the results of disposed operations and businesses sold from the effective date of disposal.
Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries, which are those entities in which the Group has an interest of more than one half of the voting rights or otherwise has power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from their activities, are consolidated.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or presently convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are no longer consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The purchase method also known as the acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given up, shares issued or liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recorded as goodwill.
Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
ii Associates and joint ventures Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Joint ventures are enterprises that the Group has the power to jointly govern the enterprises financial and operating policies with other investors based on contractual agreement.
Associates are enterprises, other than joint ventures, that are not controlled by the Group over which the Group generally has between 20% and 50% of the voting rights, or over which the Group has significant influence.
Under the equity method of accounting, the Groups consolidated income statement includes the Groups share of profits less losses of joint ventures and associates, while the share of net assets of joint ventures and associates is included in the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
Where the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or associate exceeds its interest in that enterprise, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
The Groups investment in joint ventures and associates includes goodwill on acquisition.
The Group applies its own accounting policies and estimates when accounting for its share of joint ventures and associates, making appropriate adjustments where necessary, having due regard to all relevant factors.
Presentation of income statement and exceptional items Where applicable, income statement information has been presented in a columnar format, which separately highlights intangible asset expenses and exceptional items.
This is intended to enable users of the financial statements to determine more readily the impact of intangible asset expenses and exceptional items on the results of the Group.
Exceptional items are defined in note 38.
Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the period.
Although these estimates and assumptions are based on managements best knowledge, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates and assumptions used.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement of tax assets and liabilities, the measurement of onerous contract provisions, the measurement of retirement benefit obligations, the measurement and impairment of goodwill, the measurement of insurance provisions and the measurement of receivables and payables in relation to rail contracts.
The measurement of tax assets and liabilities requires an assessment to be made of the potential tax consequence of certain items that will only be resolved when agreed by the relevant tax authorities.
The measurement of onerous contract provisions requires estimates of future cash flows relating to the relevant contracts and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
The measurement of retirement benefit obligations requires the estimation of life expectancies, future changes in salaries, inflation, the expected return on scheme assets and the selection of a suitable discount rate see note 28.
The Group determines whether goodwill arising on business combinations is impaired on an annual basis and this requires the estimation of value in use of the cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
This requires estimation of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate see note 11.
The estimation of the insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected settlement on known claims together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but for which claims have not been reported to the Group.
The estimation of receivables and payables in relation to rail contracts requires an esimate of the likely outcomes based on interpreting the applicable contracts.
Those accounting policies that the Directors believe require the greatest exercise of judgement are described on page 14 and 15.
Revenue Revenue represents gross revenue earned from public transport services and excludes payments received on account.
Amounts receivable for tendered services and concessionary fare schemes are included as part of revenue.
Where appropriate, amounts are shown net of rebates and VAT.
Revenues incidental to the Groups principal activity including advertising income and maintenance income are reported as miscellaneous revenue see note 5.
Rail revenue includes amounts attributable to the train operating companies, based principally on agreed models of route usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited which administers the income allocation system within the UK rail industry in respect of passenger receipts.
Franchise agreement receipts or payments from or to the Department for Transport DfT are treated as other operating income see note 5.
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the customers travel or services provided under contractual arrangements as a proportion of total services to be provided.
Cash received for the sale of season tickets and travelcards is deferred within liabilities and recognised in the income statement over the period covered by the relevant ticket.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 47 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 48 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Revenue continued Income from advertising and other activities is recognised as the income is earned.
Finance income is recognised using the effective interest method as interest accrues.
Under the contractual terms of its franchise agreements to operate rail services, the Group has revenue sharing arrangements with the DfT.
As a result of these arrangements, the Group may be liable to make payments to the DfT or receive amounts from the DfT based on calculations that involve comparison of actual revenue with the target revenue specified in the relevant franchise agreement.
The Group recognises revenue share amounts payable or receivable in the income statement in the same period in which it recognises the related revenue.
Revenue share amounts payable if any are classified within other operating costs and revenue share amounts receivable if any are classified within other operating income.
Performance incentive payments Performance incentive payments made to Network Rail by the Group in respect of train service delivery are recognised in the same period that the performance relates to and are shown as other operating costs.
Government grants Grants from government are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and the Group will comply with all attached conditions.
Government grants relating to costs are deferred and recognised in the income statement over the period necessary to match them with the costs they are intended to compensate.
Government grants relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment are recorded as liabilities and are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected lives of the related assets.
Revenue grants receivable in respect of the operation of rail franchises in the UK are credited to the income statement in the period in which the related expenditure is recognised in the income statement or where they do not relate to any specific expenditure, in the period in respect of which the grant is receivable.
These rail franchise grants are classified within other operating income.
Share based payments The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any non-market based vesting conditions and no expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest as a result of a failure to satisfy a non-market based vesting condition.
None of the Groups equity-settled transactions have any market based performance conditions.
Fair value for equity-settled share based payments is estimated by use of the Black-Scholes pricing model.
At each balance sheet date, before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated based on managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest taking into consideration the likelihood of achieving non-market based vesting conditions.
The movement in this cumulative expense is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled by the Group or the holder, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
Cash-settled transactions The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured at fair value.
Fair value is estimated initially at the grant date and at each balance sheet date thereafter until the awards are settled.
Market based performance conditions are taken into account when determining fair value.
Fair value for cash-settled share based payments being only those that relate to the Long Term Incentive Plan is estimated by use of a simulation model.
During the vesting period, a liability is recognised representing the estimated fair value of the award and the portion of the vesting period expired as at the balance sheet date.
Changes in the carrying amount of the liability are recognised in the income statement for the period.
Choice of settlement The Company can choose to settle awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan in either cash or equity, although it currently expects to settle all such awards in cash.
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan are accounted for as cash-settled transactions see above.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs and after the share of after-tax results of associates and joint ventures but before finance income, finance costs, non-operating exceptional items, taxation and profit from discontinued operations.
Taxation Tax, current and deferred, is calculated using tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
Corporation tax is provided on taxable profit at the current rate applicable.
Tax charges and credits are accounted for through the same primary statement as the related pre-tax item.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred income tax is measured at tax rates that are expected to apply in periods in which the temporary differences reverse based on tax rates and law enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
page 48 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 49 Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker which for this purpose has been identified as the Board of Directors.
Foreign currency translation The financial statements of foreign operations are maintained in the functional currencies in which the entities transact business.
The trading results of foreign operations are translated into sterling using average rates of exchange.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated into sterling using rates of exchange at the relevant balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the opening net assets and results of overseas operations, together with exchange differences arising on net foreign currency borrowings and foreign currency derivatives, to the extent they hedge the Groups investment in overseas operations, are recognised as a separate component of equity being the translation reserve.
Further information on the Groups accounting policy on hedges of net investment in a foreign entity is provided on page 53.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into the respective functional currencies of the Group entities at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency transactions arising during the year are translated into the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in profit or loss.
On disposal of a foreign subsidiary, the amount of any exchange differences relating to the subsidiary that has been deferred in the translation reserve is recognised in the income statement within the reported gain or loss on disposal.
The Group took the IFRS 1 exemption which allows accumulated exchange differences at the date of transition to IFRS, being 1 May 2004, to be set to zero for all foreign subsidiaries.
PRINCIPAL RATES OF EXCHANGE 2010 2009 US Dollar: Year end rate 1.5307 1.4818 Average rate 1.6020 1.6780 Canadian Dollar: Year end rate 1.5504 1.7605 Average rate 1.7189 1.8955 Business combinations and goodwill On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
Goodwill arises where the fair value of the consideration given for a business exceeds the fair value of such net assets.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Prior to 1 May 2004, goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful life: such amortisation ceased on 30 April 2004 but goodwill amortisation expensed prior to 1 May 2004 was not reversed.
Goodwill that arose prior to 1 May 2004 is measured at the amount recognised under the Groups previous accounting framework, UK GAAP.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions in the year ended 30 April 1998 and earlier periods was written off directly to equity in accordance with the UK accounting standards then in force.
Under IFRS 1 and IFRS 3, such goodwill will remain eliminated against reserves.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, then the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash generating unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Any impairment of goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Where goodwill other than that already written off directly to equity forms part of a cash generating unit and all or part of that unit is disposed of, the associated goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the disposed operation when determining the overall gain or loss on disposal.
Impairment of non-current assets Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets excluding goodwill, financial assets and other non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately from a business combination are initially capitalised at cost and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The initial cost recognised is the aggregate amount paid plus the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised, separately from goodwill, at fair value at the date of acquisition if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Amortisation is calculated on the straight-line method to write-off the cost or fair value at acquisition as the case may be of each asset over their estimated useful lives shown below.
Intangible assets relating to rail franchises of a finite duration are amortised over the life of the franchise.
Customer contracts over the life of the contract 1 to 9 years for current contracts Right to operate rail franchises over the life of the franchise 10 years from February 2007 to February 2017 for South Western Trains franchise and 7 years and 4 months from November 2007 to March 2015 for East Midlands Trains franchise Non-compete contracts between 2 and 5 years for current contracts Software costs 2 to 7 years Marketing costs incurred during the start-up phase of a new activity are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 49 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 50 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment acquired as part of a business combination is stated at fair value at the date of acquisition and is subsequently measured at fair value on acquisition less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
All other property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method to write off the cost, fair value at acquisition or deemed cost of each asset to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows: Heritable and freehold buildings and long leasehold properties 50 years Short leasehold properties period of lease IT and other equipment, furniture and fittings 3 to 10 years Public Service Vehicles PSVs and transportation equipment 7 to 16 years Motor cars and other vehicles 3 to 5 years Heritable and freehold land is not depreciated.
The useful lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at least annually and, where applicable, adjustments are made on a prospective basis.
An item of property, plant or equipment is derecognised upon disposal.
An item on which no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset is impaired if it is continued to be used by the Group.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds received with the carrying amount of the asset and are included in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on derecognition of the asset is included in the income statement in the period of derecognition.
Repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The cost of major renovations is included in the carrying amount of the asset when it is probable that future economic benefits in excess of the originally assessed standard of performance of the existing asset will flow to the Group.
Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of the carrying amount immediately prior to the asset being classified as held for sale and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
The Group must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Where an asset that is classified as held for sale ceases to meet the criteria to be classified as such, the asset is reclassified as approprite.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making due allowance for obsolete or slow moving items.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO or average cost method.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses.
Pre-contract costs The costs associated with securing new rail franchises are expensed as incurred, except when at the time the costs are incurred it is probable that a contract will be awarded in which case they are recognised as an asset and are charged to the income statement over the life of the franchise.
Hire purchase and lease obligations Assets acquired under hire purchase and finance lease arrangements, where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Fixed lease payments are apportioned between the finance costs, and the reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance costs are charged directly against income and are reported within finance costs in the consolidated income statement.
Assets capitalised under finance leases and other similar contracts are depreciated over the shorter of the lease terms and their useful economic lives.
Assets capitalised under hire purchase contracts are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The principal restriction on assets held under finance lease or hire purchase agreements is a restriction on the right to dispose of the assets during the period of the agreement.
Tokens Tokens issued by National Transport Tokens Limited, a subsidiary of the Group, to facilitate public passenger travel in the United Kingdom are credited to a token redemption provision to the extent they are expected to be redeemed by customers.
Redemptions are offset against this provision and associated handling commission paid to third parties is included in operating costs.
Funds from the sale of tokens required for token redemption are included as a financing activity in the consolidated cash flow statement.
The estimate of the balance sheet provision for token redemption is remeasured at each balance sheet date and is based on the value of tokens issued by the Group but not yet redeemed or cancelled at the balance sheet date.
Allowance is made for the estimated proportion of tokens in issue that will never be redeemed.
This allowance is estimated with reference to historic redemption rates.
At 30 April 2010, it has been estimated that 97% 30 April 2009: 97% of tokens in issue will be redeemed.
Provision for onerous contracts A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when it is probable that the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
page 50 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 51 Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Restructuring provisions Provisions for restructuring are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and a reliable estimate of associated costs can be made.
Insurance The Group receives claims in respect of traffic incidents and employee claims.
The Group protects against the cost of such claims through third party insurance policies.
An element of the claims is not insured as a result of the excess or deductible on insurance policies.
Provision is made on a discounted basis for the estimated cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
The estimate of the balance sheet insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected settlement of known claims together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but for which claims have not yet been reported to the Group.
The provision is set after taking account of advice from third party actuaries.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group contributes to a number of pension schemes as described in note 28.
The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
In respect of defined benefit schemes, obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst scheme assets are recorded at market value.
In relation to each scheme, the recognised net asset is limited to no greater than the total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
An economic benefit is available to the Group if it is realisable during the life of the scheme or on settlement of the scheme liabilities.
The operating and financing costs of defined benefit plans are included within operating profit and are disclosed separately in the notes to the financial statements: service costs are spread systematically over the working lives of employees and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Mortality rates are considered when retirement benefit obligations are calculated.
Past service costs and adjustments are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period the vesting period, in which case the past service costs are amortised using a straight-line method over the vesting period.
Past service pension adjustments which impact on the income statement for the year are disclosed within exceptional items, where material to the financial statements.
Curtailments arise where the Group makes a material reduction in the number of employees covered by a pension scheme or amends a defined benefit pension schemes terms such that a material element of future service by current employees will qualify for no or significantly reduced benefits.
Settlements arise when the Group enters into a transaction that eliminates all or part of the Groups obligations for benefits provided under a defined benefit pension scheme.
The gain or loss arising on a settlement or curtailment comprises the resulting change in the net pension asset or liability, and such gain or loss is recognised in the income statement when the settlement or curtailment occurs.
Where the gain or loss is related to a disposal of a business, it is included within the reported gain or loss on disposal within profit or loss from discontinued operations.
A full actuarial valuation is undertaken triennially for each scheme with the deficit being updated annually using independent actuaries following the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the scheme obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity equivalent to the terms of the related obligations.
Experience adjustments and changes in assumptions which affect actuarial gains and losses are reflected in the actuarial gain or loss for the year.
The liability or asset recognised for the relevant sections of the Railways Pension Scheme represents only that part of the net deficit or surplus of each section that the employer expects to fund or recover over the life of the franchise to which the section relates.
For defined contribution schemes, the Group pays contributions to separately administered pension schemes.
Once the contributions have been paid, the Group has no further payment obligations.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
Financial instruments The disclosure of the accounting policies that follow for financial instruments are those that apply under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement.
Financial assets Financial assets are classified, as appropriate, as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held-to-maturity investments or as available for sale.
They include cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, other receivables, loans, other investments and derivative financial instruments.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, normally being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as follows: Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: Financial assets classified as held for trading and other assets designated as such on inception are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss where the assets meet the criteria for such classification.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for sale in the short-term.
Derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments.
Assets in this category are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 51 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 52 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Financial instruments continued Loans and receivables: Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either at fair value through profit or loss or available for sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
Where the time value of money is material, receivables are discounted to the present value at the point they are first recognised and are subsequently amortised to the invoice amount by the payment due date.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered in evaluating whether a trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within Other external charges.
When a trade receivable is uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
For financial assets measured at amortised cost, the reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
Held-to-maturity investments: Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity are classified as held-to-maturity when the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold the investment to maturity.
Held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Held-to-maturity gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the assets are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Investments intended to be held for an undefined period cannot be included in this classification.
Available for sale financial assets: Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the above categories.
These are included in non-current assets unless the Group intends to dispose of them within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
After initial recognition, available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value, with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the asset is derecognised or until the asset is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss reported in equity is included in the income statement.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered an indicator that the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available for sale financial assets, the cumulative loss - measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss - is removed from equity and is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
Financial liabilities When a financial liability is recognised initially, the Group measures it at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the financial liability.
Financial liabilities include trade payables, other payables, borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
Subsequent measurement depends on its classification as follows: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Financial liabilities classified as held for trading and derivative liabilities that are not designated as effective hedging instruments are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Such liabilities are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses being recognised in the income statement.
Other: All other financial liabilities not classified as fair value through profit or loss are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Fair values The fair value of quoted investments is determined by reference to appropriate market prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
These include using pricing models and discounted cash flow analysis.
Otherwise assets are carried at cost.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is documented at its inception.
This documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: Cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction, including intra-group transactions: or Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity.
Net gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of all other derivatives, which are classified as held for trading, are taken to the income statement.
These may arise from derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied because they are either not designated or not effective as hedging instruments from an accounting perspective.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging relationship, as follows: Fair value hedges: For fair value hedges, the carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk being hedged: the derivative is remeasured at fair value and gains and losses from both the derivative and the hedged item are taken to the income statement.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
For hedged items carried at amortised cost, the hedge adjustment is amortised through the income statement such that it is fully amortised by maturity.
page 52 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 53 Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Financial instruments continued Cash flow hedges: For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts recorded in the statement of comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
For cash flow hedges of forecast fuel purchases, the transfer is to operating costs within the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recorded in the statement of recognised income remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are then transferred to the income statement.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement immediately.
Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity: For hedges of the net investment in a foreign entity, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recorded in the statement of comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts recorded in the statement of comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement when the foreign entity is sold.
Non-derivative financial liabilities can be designated as hedges of a net investment in a foreign entity and are subject to the same requirements as derivative hedges of a net investment in a foreign entity.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at the proceeds received, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective yield method subject to any adjustments in respect of fair value hedges: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings.
Interest on borrowings to purchase property, plant and equipment is expensed in the income statement.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Trade and other payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost which approximates to nominal value due to creditors days being relatively low.
Preferred shares Preferred shares, which are redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the shareholder, or which carry non-discretionary dividend obligations, are classified as liabilities.
The dividend on these preferred shares is recognised in the income statement as an interest expense.
Share capital and dividends Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where the Company, its subsidiaries or employee share ownership trusts sponsored by the Company purchase ordinary shares in the Company, the consideration paid, including any attributable incremental external costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in equity.
Dividends on ordinary shares are recorded in the Groups financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Groups shareholders, or in the case of interim dividends, in the period in which they are paid.
The accounting policy in relation to preferred shares and dividends payable on such shares is included in the accounting policy for financial instruments above.
Note 2 Segmental information Management has determined the operating segments based on the reports reviewed by the Board of Directors that are used to make strategic decisions.
The Group is managed, and reports internally, on a basis consistent with its three continuing operating segments, being UK Bus, North America and UK Rail.
The Groups IFRS accounting policies are applied consistently, where appropriate to each segment.
The segmental information provided in this note is on the basis of three operating segments as follows: Segment name Service operated Country of operation UK Bus Coach and bus operations United Kingdom North America Coach and bus operations USA and Canada UK Rail Rail operations United Kingdom The Group has interests in four joint ventures: Virgin Rail Group, that operates in UK Rail: Citylink, that operates in UK Bus: and New York Splash Tours LLC and Twin America LLC, that both operate in North America.
The results of these joint ventures are shown separately in notes 2 c and 2 g. a Revenue Due to the nature of the Groups business, the origin and destination of revenue is the same in all cases.
As the Group sells bus and rail services to individuals, it has few customers that are individually major.
Its major customers are typically public bodies that subsidise or procure transport services such customers include local authorities, transport authorities and the UK Department for Transport.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 53 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 54 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 2 Segmental information continued a Revenue continued 2010 2009 m m Continuing operations UK Bus 875.4 830.8 North America 266.1 297.7 Total bus continuing operations 1,141.5 1,128.5 UK Rail 1,026.7 977.7 Total Group revenue 2,168.2 2,106.2 Intra-Group revenue 3.8 2.9 Reported Group revenue 2,164.4 2,103.3 b Operating profit 2010 2009 Performance Performance pre intangibles Intangibles and pre intangibles Intangibles and and exceptional Results for and exceptional Results for exceptional items items the year exceptional items items the year m m m m m m Continuing operations UK Bus 126.1 2.6 123.5 125.6 Nil 125.6 North America 9.1 Nil 9.1 25.2 Nil 25.2 Total bus continuing operations 135.2 2.6 132.6 150.8 Nil 150.8 UK Rail 41.6 Nil 41.6 55.7 Nil 55.7 Total continuing operations 176.8 2.6 174.2 206.5 Nil 206.5 Group overheads 11.6 Nil 11.6 11.5 Nil 11.5 Intangible asset expenses Nil 6.0 6.0 Nil 8.3 8.3 Restructuring costs 1.2 0.8 0.4 2.5 12.0 14.5 Total operating profit of continuing Group companies 164.0 7.8 156.2 192.5 20.3 172.2 Share of joint ventures profit after finance income and taxation 28.0 5.1 22.9 35.3 5.1 30.2 Total operating profit: Group operating profit and share of joint ventures profit after taxation 192.0 12.9 179.1 227.8 25.4 202.4 page 54 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 55 Note 2 Segmental information continued c Joint ventures 2010 2009 Performance Performance pre intangibles Intangibles and pre intangibles Intangibles and and exceptional Results for and exceptional Results for exceptional items items the year exceptional items items the year m m m m m m Continuing Virgin Rail Group UK Rail Operating profit 25.5 Nil 25.5 42.7 Nil 42.7 Finance income net 0.2 Nil 0.2 2.3 Nil 2.3 Taxation 6.5 Nil 6.5 11.0 Nil 11.0 19.2 Nil 19.2 34.0 Nil 34.0 Goodwill charged on investment in continuing joint ventures Nil 5.1 5.1 Nil 5.1 5.1 19.2 5.1 14.1 34.0 5.1 28.9 Citylink UK Bus Operating profit 1.7 Nil 1.7 1.4 Nil 1.4 Taxation 0.5 Nil 0.5 0.4 Nil 0.4 1.2 Nil 1.2 1.0 Nil 1.0 New York Splash Tours LLC North America Operating loss 0.9 Nil 0.9 0.6 Nil 0.6 0.9 Nil 0.9 0.6 Nil 0.6 Twin America LLC North America Operating profit 8.9 Nil 8.9 0.9 Nil 0.9 Taxation 0.4 Nil 0.4 Nil Nil Nil 8.5 Nil 8.5 0.9 Nil 0.9 Share of profit of joint ventures after finance income and taxation 28.0 5.1 22.9 35.3 5.1 30.2 d Gross assets and liabilities 2010 2009 Net assets Net assets Gross liabilites liabilities Gross liabilites liabilities excluding excluding excluding excluding retirement retirement Retirement retirement retirement Retirement Gross benefit benefit benefit Net assets Gross benefit benefit benefit Net assets assets obligations obligations obligations liabilities assets obligations obligations obligations liabilities m m m m m m m m UK Bus 693.3 172.8 520.5 151.1 369.4 630.7 140.4 490.3 27.3 463.0 North America 271.7 80.8 190.9 2.9 188.0 278.2 102.6 175.6 3.6 172.0 UK Rail 196.6 375.8 179.2 40.8 220.0 234.9 385.0 150.1 47.4 197.5 1,161.6 629.4 532.2 194.8 337.4 1,143.8 628.0 515.8 78.3 437.5 Central functions 25.2 62.5 37.3 7.3 44.6 15.0 148.9 133.9 2.3 136.2 Joint ventures 56.7 Nil 56.7 Nil 56.7 68.7 Nil 68.7 Nil 68.7 Borrowings and cash 375.7 676.9 301.2 Nil 301.2 277.3 626.9 349.6 Nil 349.6 Taxation 2.7 38.3 35.6 NIl 35.6 5.3 35.3 30.0 Nil 30.0 Total 1,621.9 1,407.1 214.8 202.1 12.7 1,510.1 1,439.1 71.0 80.6 9.6 Central assets and liabilities include the token provision, interest payable and receivable and other net assets of the holding company.
Segment assets and liabilities are determined by identifying the assets and liabilities that relate to the business of each segment but excluding intraGroup balances, cash, borrowings, interest payable, interest receivable and the token provision.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 55 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 2 Segmental information continued e Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment The capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment shown below is on an accruals basis, not on a cash basis, and includes expenditure on property, plant and equipment through business combinations.
2010 2009 m m UK Bus 98.2 126.9 North America 14.5 38.2 UK Rail 45.1 37.8 157.8 202.9 Capital expenditure, excluding business combinations is analysed in section 3.8.
10 of the Operating and Financial Review.
f Capital expenditure on intangible assets The capital expenditure on intangible assets including goodwill shown below includes acquisitions through business combinations.
2010 2009 m m UK Bus 2.2 13.5 North America Nil 3.9 UK Rail 0.9 0.4 3.1 17.8 g Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA The results of each segment are further analysed below: Year ended 30 April 2010 EBITDA Operating profit EBITDA Joint venture including joint Depreciation pre intangibles Intangible Allocation pre-exceptional interest and venture interest & impairment and exceptional asset Exceptional of restructuring Operating items tax and tax expense items expenses items costs profit m m m m m m m m m UK Bus 180.9 Nil 180.9 54.8 126.1 3.1 2.6 0.2 120.2 North America 29.2 Nil 29.2 20.1 9.1 0.4 Nil 0.3 8.4 UK Rail subsidiaries 58.3 Nil 58.3 16.7 41.6 2.5 Nil 0.3 39.4 UK Rail joint venture Virgin Rail Group 25.5 6.3 19.2 Nil 19.2 5.1 Nil Nil 14.1 UK Bus joint venture Citylink 1.7 0.5 1.2 Nil 1.2 Nil Nil Nil 1.2 North America joint ventures Splash Tours and Twin America 8.0 0.4 7.6 Nil 7.6 Nil Nil Nil 7.6 Group overheads 11.3 Nil 11.3 0.3 11.6 Nil Nil 0.2 11.8 Restructuring costs 1.2 Nil 1.2 Nil 1.2 Nil 0.8 0.4 Nil 291.1 7.2 283.9 91.9 192.0 11.1 1.8 Nil 179.1 Year ended 30 April 2009 EBITDA Operating profit EBITDA Joint venture including joint Depreciation pre intangibles Intangible Allocation pre-exceptional interest and venture interest & impairment and exceptional asset Exceptional of restructuring Operating items tax and tax expense items expenses items costs profit m m m m m m m m m UK Bus 176.0 Nil 176.0 50.4 125.6 5.2 Nil 1.6 118.8 North America 44.7 Nil 44.7 19.5 25.2 0.7 Nil Nil 24.5 UK Rail subsidiaries 58.0 Nil 58.0 2.3 55.7 2.4 Nil 12.9 40.4 UK Rail joint venture Virgin Rail Group 42.7 8.7 34.0 Nil 34.0 5.1 Nil Nil 28.9 UK Bus joint venture Citylink 1.4 0.4 1.0 Nil 1.0 Nil Nil Nil 1.0 North America joint ventures Splash Tours and Twin America 0.3 Nil 0.3 Nil 0.3 Nil Nil Nil 0.3 Group overheads 11.4 Nil 11.4 0.1 11.5 Nil Nil Nil 11.5 Restructuring costs 2.5 Nil 2.5 Nil 2.5 Nil 12.0 14.5 Nil 309.2 9.1 300.1 72.3 227.8 13.4 12.0 Nil 202.4 page 56 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 57 Note 3 Operating costs 2010 2009 m m Materials and consumables 300.0 257.4 Staff costs note 7 826.6 818.9 Depreciation on property, plant and equipment owned assets 46.0 51.1 leased assets under hire purchase agreements and finance leases 31.2 21.0 Loss on disposal of plant and equipment 2.0 2.0 Impairment of plant and equipment 14.7 0.2 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 18.2 20.3 Amortisation of intangible assets customer contracts 1.5 3.0 non-compete contracts 2.0 2.8 rail franchises 2.2 2.3 software costs 0.3 0.2 Network Rail charges 222.7 238.1 Operating lease rentals payable plant and equipment 146.1 141.7 property 7.1 7.2 Other external charges exceptional 2.6 Nil non-exceptional 331.4 372.6 Restructuring costs exceptional 0.8 12.0 non-exceptional 1.2 2.5 Total operating costs 1,955.0 1,953.3 Amounts payable to  LLP and their associates by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings in respect of audit and nonaudit services are shown below: 2010 2009 000 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys financial statements 20.0 20.0 Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 710.5 675.0 Total audit fees 730.5 695.0 Assurance services pursuant to legislation Nil Nil Other assurance services see below 323.0 85.3 Tax advisory services 55.6 109.7 Provision of training and related materials 2.0 0.8 Non-audit fees 380.6 195.8 Total fees payable by the Group to its auditors 1,111.1 890.8 The fees payable to the auditors for other assurance services of 323,000 2009: 85,300 shown above include 295,000 2009: Nil in relation to the issue of corporate bonds and the proposal to acquire certain businesses of, or merge with, National Express Group plc.
This related to work that was best undertaken by the auditors in respect of a shareholder circular, a review of the adequacy of the Groups working capital and advice on the accounting and legal structuring of the proposal.
In addition to the fees detailed above,  LLP received US$110,000 2009: US$Nil in relation to the audit of our joint venture, Twin America LLC.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 29, and includes an explanation of how auditor independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 57 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 58 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 4 Exceptional items and intangible asset expenses The Group highlights amounts before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items as well as clearly reporting the results in accordance with IFRS.
Information on exceptional items is provided in section 3.8.
2 of the Operating and Financial Review.
The items shown in the column headed Intangibles and exceptional items on the face of the consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 April 2010 can be further analysed as follows: 2010 Exceptional Intangible Intangibles and items asset expenses exceptional items m m m Operating costs Restructuring costs release of unutilised provision 0.8 Nil 0.8 Costs of participation in the Competition Commission study of the UK local bus market 2.6 Nil 2.6 Intangible asset expenses Nil 6.0 6.0 1.8 6.0 7.8 Share of profit of joint ventures Goodwill charged on investment in joint ventures Nil 5.1 5.1 Non-operating exceptional items continuing operations Gain on sale of properties 4.3 Nil 4.3 Loss on disposal of operations note 18 3.2 Nil 3.2 Loss on exit from certain operations 0.8 Nil 0.8 Expenses incurred in relation to proposal to acquire certain businesses of, or merge with, National Express Group plc 2.3 Nil 2.3 Non-operating exceptional items continuing operations 2.0 Nil 2.0 Exceptional finance costs Loss on ineffective interest rate swaps following issuance of sterling bond 20.5 Nil 20.5 Intangible asset expenses and exceptional items continuing operations 24.3 11.1 35.4 Tax effect of intangible asset expenses and exceptional items 7.4 1.7 9.1 Intangible asset expenses and exceptional items after taxation continuing operations 16.9 9.4 26.3 Resolution of certain liabilities re disposals discontinued operations 3.9 Nil 3.9 The items shown in the column headed Intangibles and exceptional items on the face of the consolidated income statement for the prior year comparatives can be further analysed as follows: 2009 Exceptional Intangible Intangibles and items asset expenses exceptional items m m m Operating costs Intangible asset expenses Nil 8.3 8.3 Restructuring costs 12.0 Nil 12.0 12.0 8.3 20.3 Share of profit of joint ventures Goodwill charged on investment in joint ventures Nil 5.1 5.1 Non-operating exceptional items continuing operations Impairment charge on properties 2.4 Nil 2.4 Resolution of certain liabilities re acquisitions and disposals 2.2 Nil 2.2 Non-operating exceptional items continuing operations 0.2 Nil 0.2 Intangible asset expenses and exceptional items continuing operations 12.2 13.4 25.6 Tax effect of intangible asset expenses and exceptional items 4.1 2.2 6.3 Deferred tax charge re abolition of the Industrial Buildings Allowances 10.6 Nil 10.6 Intangible asset expenses and exceptional items after taxation continuing operations 18.7 11.2 29.9 page 58 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 59 Note 4 Exceptional items and intangible asset expenses continued The goodwill charged on investment in joint ventures is an annual charge for goodwill in relation to our investment in Virgin Rail Group.
On adoption of IFRS, the Group took the exemption offered under IFRS 1 not to restate prior period business combinations.
Accordingly, the goodwill arising under UK GAAP on the acquisition of the 49% stake in Virgin Rail Group was carried over to IFRS, however Virgin Rail Groups only significant business is the operation of the West Coast Trains rail franchise, which has a finite duration as the franchise ends on a particular date.
We therefore have to reduce the goodwill in relation to Virgin Rail Group with an annual charge to reflect the fact that we should have no goodwill left at the end of the current West Coast Trains rail franchise.
Whilst IFRS generally prohibits the amortisation of goodwill, the treatment adopted is a result of an anomaly on the first-time adoption of IFRS that would not arise if IFRS were applied to new acquisitions of businesses.
Note 5 Other operating expense income 2010 2009 m m Miscellaneous revenue 87.7 88.6 Rail franchise support, excluding incentive payments Nil 31.5 Rail franchise premia 148.7 97.9 Rail revenue support 7.8 Nil 53.2 22.2 Miscellaneous revenue comprises revenue incidental to the Groups principal activities.
It includes commissions receivable, advertising income, maintenance income, railway station access income, railway depot access income, fuel sales and property income.
Rail franchise support is the amount of financial support receivable from the Department for Transport DfT in respect of the operation of UK passenger rail franchises.
Rail franchise premia is the amount of financial premia payable to the DfT in respect of the operation of UK passenger rail franchises.
Rail revenue support is the amount of additional financial support receivable from the DfT in certain circumstances where a train operating companys revenue is below target.
Note 6 Finance costs and income 2010 2009 m m Finance costs Interest payable and other facility costs on bank loans, loan notes and overdrafts 4.5 9.8 Hire purchase and finance lease interest payable 7.3 7.8 Interest payable on bonds 16.1 15.1 B share dividends Nil 0.2 Fair value losses on financial instruments not qualifying as hedges: Foreign exchange derivative contracts 5.1 Nil Unwinding of discount on provisions 3.7 3.6 Interest payable on interest rate swaps qualifying as cashflow hedges 4.8 2.4 41.5 38.9 Finance income Interest receivable 4.0 7.5 Interest receivable on interest rate swaps qualifying as fair value hedges 1.3 Nil Exchange gains on retranslation of US$ bonds 5.5 Nil 10.8 7.5 Net finance costs before exceptional items 30.7 31.4 Exceptional item Ineffective interest rate swaps 20.5 Nil Net finance costs 51.2 31.4 No interest 2009: Nil was capitalised during the year.
At 30 April 2009, the US$293.1m of US$ notes and a US$20.0m foreign currency derivative contract were designated as a hedge of overseas net investments.
On 7 July 2009, this hedge relationship was fide-designated.
On the same day, the Group took out US$ derivative contracts, with notional amounts totalling US$342.0m to give certainty of the sterling value of the redemption payment that would be made by the Group when the US$ notes matured on 16 November 2009.
Exchange gains on the US$ notes in the period from 7 July 2009 to 16 November 2009 of 5.5m are included within finance income above.
The notional value of the derivative contracts exceeded the outstanding US$ notes in order to take account of the tax effect of the transactions.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 59 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 60 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 7 Staff costs 2010 2009 m m Staff costs Wages and salaries 714.1 724.8 Social security costs 58.8 60.5 Pension costs defined contribution schemes 5.2 2.2 Pension costs defined benefit schemes current service cost 42.2 42.0 curtailments 0.7 1.0 interest cost 80.8 78.2 expected return on assets 80.0 92.7 unwinding of franchise adjustment 2.7 Nil Share based payment costs excluding social security costs Equity-settled 6.3 3.1 Cash-settled 2.6 1.8 826.6 818.9 2010 2009 m m Summary of directors remuneration Aggregate emoluments including bonuses awarded in deferred shares 2.3 2.4 Amount waived by a director 0.3 Nil 2.0 2.4 Gains made by directors on exercise of share options 0.1 1.0 2.1 3.4 Payments made in the year under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2.2 2.4 4.3 5.8 In the table above, awards made under the Executive Participation Plan are shown in the year in respect of which the award was made and the amount is included at its fair value on the grant date.
Awards made under the Long Term Incentive Plan are shown in the year in which the payments are made and the amount is included at the gross amount payable.
Key management personnel are considered to be the Directors and further information on their remuneration, share options, incentive schemes and pensions is contained within the Directors remuneration report.
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year including executive directors was as follows: 2010 2009 number number UK operations 23,240 23,866 UK administration and supervisory 2,912 3,069 Overseas 3,774 4,085 29,926 31,020 The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year, split by segment, was as follows: 2010 2009 number number UK Bus 18,842 19,300 North America 3,774 4,085 UK Rail 7,177 7,490 Central 133 145 29,926 31,020 page 60 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 61 Note 8 Taxation a Analysis of charge in the year 2010 2009 Performance Performance pre intangibles Intangibles and pre intangibles Intangibles and and exceptional Results for and exceptional Results for exceptional items items the year exceptional items items the year Notes m m m m m m Current tax: UK corporation tax at 28% 2009: 28% 12.7 9.1 3.6 19.9 4.1 15.8 Prior year over provision for corporation tax 0.9 Nil 0.9 0.5 Nil 0.5 Foreign tax current year 0.4 Nil 0.4 0.8 Nil 0.8 Foreign tax adjustments in respect of prior years 1.0 Nil 1.0 Nil Nil Nil Total current tax 13.2 9.1 4.1 20.2 4.1 16.1 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 14.9 Nil 14.9 13.4 2.2 11.2 Exceptional charge re abolition of Industrial Building Allowances Nil Nil Nil Nil 10.6 10.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.9 Nil 0.9 0.6 Nil 0.6 Total deferred tax 14.0 Nil 14.0 12.8 8.4 21.2 Total tax on profit 27.2 9.1 18.1 33.0 4.3 37.3 2010 2009 b Factors affecting tax charge for the year m m Profit before taxation continuing operations 125.9 170.8 Profit multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax applying to the year in the UK of 28% 2009: 28% 35.3 47.8 Effects of: Intangible asset allowances deductions 1.4 1.5 Non taxable income non-deductible expenditure 0.2 1.3 Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised as deferred tax assets 13.5 14.7 Foreign taxes differences 1.3 1.7 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 0.8 1.1 Tax effect of share of results of joint ventures 5.4 9.8 Abolition of Industrial Buildings Allowances in the UK Nil 10.6 Total taxation note 8a 18.1 37.3 c Factors that may affect future tax charges There are no temporary differences associated with investments in overseas subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised.
Gross deductible temporary differences of 105.8m 2009: 125.4m have not been recognised due to restrictions in the availability of their use.
Temporary differences in respect of the revaluation of land and buildings see note 13 and in respect of rolled over capital gains are fully offset by temporary differences in respect of capital losses.
In the 2010 budget on 22 June 2010, the UK Government announced its intention to reduce the UK corporate income tax rate from 28% to 24% by 1% per annum over a four-year period.
At 30 April 2010, no change in the rate of tax was substantively in law, but a 1% decrease in the rate to 27% is expected to be enacted in the year ending 30 April 2011.
Had this change of rate to 27% been substantively enacted as of the balance sheet date, the estimated impact on the balance sheet would be a reduction in deferred tax liabilities of 0.7m, from 19.2m to 18.5m.
d Tax on items charged to equity 2010 2009 m m Tax on foreign exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Nil 0.9 Tax effect of actuarial losses on Group defined benefit pensions schemes 38.8 40.4 Tax effect of share of actuarial gains on joint ventures defined benefit pension schemes 0.1 0.8 Tax effect of share of fair value gains on joint ventures cash flow hedges 0.5 Nil Tax effect of share based payments 0.7 0.5 Tax effect of cash flow hedges 28.0 31.9 Total tax on items charged to equity 10.9 70.1 Gross deductible temporary differences of.
m 2008: 196.1m have not been recognised due to restrictions in the availability of their use.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 61 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 62 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 9 Dividends Dividends payable in respect of ordinary shares are shown below.
Dividends payable in respect of B Shares are included as an expense in finance costs and shown separately in note 6.
2010 2009 2010 2009 pence per share pence per share m m Amounts recognised as distributions in the year Dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend in respect of the previous year 4.2 4.05 30.1 28.9 Interim dividends in respect of the current year 6.5 1.8 46.6 12.9 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year 10.7 5.85 76.7 41.8 Dividends proposed but neither paid nor included as liabilities in the financial statements Dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend in respect of the current year Nil 4.2 Nil 30.0 The Company declared and paid two interim dividends in respect of the year ended 30 April 2010, totalling 6.5 pence per share.
In light of this, no final dividend is proposed in respect of the year ended 30 April 2010.
The dividends proposed or declared and the actual dividends recognised as distributions can differ slightly due to the number of shares at the balance sheet date being different to the number outstanding at the record date.
Note 10 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share EPS have been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding any ordinary shares held by employee share ownership trusts.
The diluted earnings per share was calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares in relation to share options and long-term incentive plans.
In respect of share options, a calculation was done to determine the number of ordinary shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined based on the average annual market share price of the Companys ordinary shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options.
The number of ordinary shares calculated as above is compared with the number of ordinary shares that would have been issued assuming the exercise of the share options.
The difference is added to the denominator as an issue of ordinary shares for no consideration and no adjustment is made to earnings numerator.
of shares million million Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares 716.2 714.5 Dilutive ordinary shares Executive Share Option Scheme 0.6 1.3 Employee SAYE Scheme Nil 0.1 Long Term Incentive Plan 3.1 2.4 Executive Participation Plan 3.7 2.8 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares 723.6 721.1 2010 2009 m m Profit after taxation for basic EPS calculation 111.7 133.5 Intangible asset expenses see note 4 11.1 13.4 Exceptional items before tax see note 4 24.3 12.2 Tax effect of intangible asset expenses and exceptional items see note 4 9.1 4.3 Profit for the year from discontinued operations see note 4 3.9 Nil Profit for adjusted EPS calculation 134.1 163.4 page 62 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 63 Note 10 Earnings per share continued 2010 2009 Earnings per Earnings per share share pence pence Basic 15.6 18.7 Adjusted basic 18.7 22.9 Diluted 15.4 18.5 Adjusted diluted 18.5 22.7 Earnings per share before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items is calculated by adding back intangible asset expenses and exceptional items after taking account of taxation, as shown on the consolidated income statement on page 41.
This has been presented to allow shareholders to gain a further understanding of the underlying performance.
The basic and diluted earnings per share can be further analysed as follows: 2010 2009 Weighted Weighted average number Earnings average number Earnings Earnings of shares per share Earnings of shares per share m Million Pence m Million Pence Basic Continuing operations 107.8 716.2 15.1 133.5 714.5 18.7 Discontinued operations 3.9 716.2 0.5 Nil 714.5 Nil 111.7 716.2 15.6 133.5 714.5 18.7 Adjusted basic Continuing operations 134.1 716.2 18.7 163.4 714.5 22.9 Discontinued operations Nil 716.2 Nil Nil 714.5 Nil 134.1 716.2 18.7 163.4 714.5 22.9 Diluted Continuing operations 107.8 723.6 14.9 133.5 721.1 18.5 Discontinued operations 3.9 723.6 0.5 Nil 721.1 Nil 111.7 723.6 15.4 133.5 721.1 18.5 Adjusted diluted Continuing operations 134.1 723.6 18.5 163.4 721.1 22.7 Discontinued operations Nil 723.6 Nil Nil 721.1 Nil 134.1 723.6 18.5 163.4 721.1 22.7 There have been no ordinary share transactions between the balance sheet date and the date of approval of this report that would have significantly changed the number of ordinary shares outstanding at 30 April 2010.
Note 11 Goodwill 2010 2009 m m Cost At beginning of year 99.9 95.5 Acquired through business combinations 1.7 10.3 Transferred to interest in joint venture note 14 Nil 26.9 Foreign exchange movements 2.2 21.0 At end of year 99.4 99.9 Accumulated impairment losses At beginning and end of year Nil Nil Net book value at beginning of year 99.9 95.5 Net book value at end of year 99.4 99.9 Stagecoach Group plc | page 63 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 64 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 11 Goodwill continued For the purpose of impairment testing, all goodwill that has been acquired in business combinations has been allocated to two individual cash generating units CGUs on the basis of the Groups operations.
Each cash generating unit is an operational division.
The UK Bus cash generating unit operates coach and bus operations in the United Kingdom.
The North America Bus cash generating unit operates coach and bus operations in the US and Canada.
No goodwill has been allocated to the Groups rail operations.
The cash generating units are as follows: UK Bus North America Bus 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Carrying amount of goodwill 34.8 33.1 64.6 66.8 Carrying value of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives Nil Nil Nil Nil Basis on which recoverable amount has been determined Value in use Value in use Value in use Value in use Period covered by approved management plans used in value in use calculation 5 years 5 years 5 years 5 years Pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flow projections 11.8% 11.8% 14.8% 14.8% Growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond period of management plan 2.0% 2.1% 2.0% 2.5% Difference between above growth rate and long-term average growth rate for market in which unit operates Nil Nil Nil Nil The calculation of value in use for each cash generating unit shown above is most sensitive to the assumptions on discount rates and growth rates.
The assumptions used are considered to be consistent with the historical performance of each cash generating unit and to be realistically achievable in light of economic and industry measures and forecasts.
The current economic challenges and uncertainties have resulted in less visibility of future cash flows and therefore created greater uncertainty in the cash flow forecasts that underpin the calculations of value in use.
The principal risks and uncertainties are set out in section 3.10 of the Operating and Financial Review.
The cost base of the UK Bus and North American Bus operations can be flexed in response to changes in revenue and there is scope to reduce capital expenditure in the medium-term if other cash flows deteriorate.
Therefore, whilst more conservative growth assumptions have been applied for the short to medium term, management believes that the cash flows for these CGUs can still be predicted with reasonable certainty notwithstanding the current economic conditions.
Risks to the cash flow forecasts remain, however, and are described in section 3.10.
The discount rates have been determined with reference to the estimated post-tax Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC of the Group.
The WACC has been estimated as at 30 April 2010 at 8.5% based on: The market capitalisation and net debt of the Group as at 30 April 2010 as an indication of the split between debt and equity: A risk-free rate of 3.9%: A levered beta for the Group of 1.1: A marginal pre-tax cost of debt of 5.5%.
The pre-tax discount rate for each CGU has been determined by adjusting the Groups WACC for the risk profile and effects of tax on each of the relevant CGUs.
The Directors believe that in the case of each of the cash generating units shown above, any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which the recoverable amount of the unit is based would not cause its carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
page 64 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 65 Note 12 Other intangible assets Year ended 30 April 2010 Customer Non-compete Rail Software contracts contracts franchises costs Total m m m m m Cost At beginning of year 18.1 17.3 19.7 0.8 55.9 Additions Nil Nil Nil 0.9 0.9 Acquired through business combinations 0.5 Nil Nil Nil 0.5 Disposals Nil 4.1 Nil Nil 4.1 Foreign exchange movements Nil 0.5 Nil Nil 0.5 At end of year 18.6 12.7 19.7 1.7 52.7 Accumulated amortisation At beginning of year 15.6 11.1 4.4 0.3 31.4 Amortisation 1.5 2.0 2.2 0.3 6.0 Disposals Nil 0.6 Nil Nil 0.6 Foreign exchange movements Nil 0.2 Nil Nil 0.2 At end of year 17.1 12.3 6.6 0.6 36.6 Net book value at beginning of year 2.5 6.2 15.3 0.5 24.5 Net book value at end of year 1.5 0.4 13.1 1.1 16.1 Intangible assets include customer contracts purchased as part of the Groups business combinations, non-compete contracts, the right to operate UK Rail franchises and software costs.
The amortisation of each of the above intangible assets is included within the operating costs line of the income statement.
Intangible assets arising during the year including any acquired through business combinations and the amortisation periods are as follows: Amortisation Intangible period additions years m Subsidiaries UK Bus additions 1-9 0.5 Subsidiaries UK Rail additions 2-7 0.9 1.4 Customer Non-compete Rail Software Year ended 30 April 2009 contracts contracts franchises costs Total m m m m m Cost At beginning of year 15.8 10.8 19.7 0.9 47.2 Additions Nil Nil Nil 0.4 0.4 Acquired through business combinations 2.3 4.8 Nil Nil 7.1 Disposals Nil Nil Nil 0.5 0.5 Foreign exchange movements Nil 1.7 Nil Nil 1.7 At end of year 18.1 17.3 19.7 0.8 55.9 Accumulated amortisation At beginning of year 12.6 7.2 2.1 0.6 22.5 Amortisation 3.0 2.8 2.3 0.2 8.3 Disposals Nil Nil Nil 0.5 0.5 Foreign exchange movements Nil 1.1 Nil Nil 1.1 At end of year 15.6 11.1 4.4 0.3 31.4 Net book value at beginning of year 3.2 3.6 17.6 0.3 24.7 Net book value at end of year 2.5 6.2 15.3 0.5 24.5 Stagecoach Group plc | page 65 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 66 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 13 Property, plant and equipment Land and Passenger Other plant Year ended 30 April 2010 buildings service vehicles and equipment Total m m m m Cost At beginning of year 226.5 968.4 154.2 1,349.1 Additions 11.2 94.5 51.0 156.7 Acquired through business combinations 0.4 0.7 Nil 1.1 Disposals 5.2 53.9 52.4 111.5 Foreign exchange movements 0.5 0.3 0.5 0.3 Transferred from assets held for sale note 23 4.8 Nil Nil 4.8 Reclassifications Nil 8.3 8.3 Nil At end of year 237.2 1,001.7 161.6 1,400.5 Depreciation At beginning of year 21.3 444.4 97.7 563.4 Charge for year 5.9 64.4 6.9 77.2 Impairment charge in the year Nil Nil 14.7 14.7 Disposals 0.6 47.5 4.7 52.8 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 1.2 0.5 0.6 Transferred from assets held for sale note 23 2.4 Nil Nil 2.4 Reclassifications Nil 6.5 6.5 Nil At end of year 29.1 453.6 121.6 604.3 Net book value at beginning of year 205.2 524.0 56.5 785.7 Net book value at end of year 208.1 548.1 40.0 796.2 Included in the above net book value at end of year are: Assets on hire purchase Nil 238.5 Nil 238.5 Leased PSV assets Nil 78.5 Nil 78.5 Short leasehold land and buildings 27.1 Nil Nil 27.1 Long leasehold land and buildings 26.3 Nil Nil 26.3 Heritable and freehold land amounting to 91.4m 2009: 93.8m has not been depreciated.
Depreciation of 31.2m 2009: 21.0m has been charged in the year in respect of assets held under hire purchase or finance lease agreements.
Included in the net book value of property, plant and equipment is 10.2m 2009: 24.7m in respect of assets under construction that the Group expects to be sold to Network Rail following the completion of each assets construction.
During the year ended 30 April 2010, we reached agreement with the DfT on a commercial settlement in favour of South Western Trains in respect of certain elements of the smartcard project which had been subject to delay.
In light of elements of the smartcard project not being delivered on time we have reviewed the carrying value of plant and equipment held in relation to the smartcard project and have recorded a 14.7m impairment charge.
Year ended 30 April 2009 Land and Passenger Other plant buildings service vehicles and equipment Total m m m m Cost At beginning of year 193.4 844.1 129.5 1,167.0 Additions 36.3 122.4 29.6 188.3 Acquired through business combinations 2.5 11.7 0.4 14.6 Disposals 7.9 59.5 4.9 72.3 Transferred to joint venture 0.8 19.4 1.0 21.2 Foreign exchange movements 8.1 69.2 0.2 77.5 Transferred to assets held for sale note 23 4.8 Nil Nil 4.8 Reclassifications 0.3 0.1 0.4 Nil At end of year 226.5 968.4 154.2 1,349.1 Depreciation At beginning of year 15.0 402.8 96.8 514.6 Charge for year 5.0 61.1 6.0 72.1 Impairment charge in the year 2.4 Nil 0.2 2.6 Disposals 1.0 49.0 4.2 54.2 Transferred to joint venture 0.3 6.6 0.8 7.7 Foreign exchange movements 2.6 36.2 0.4 38.4 Transferred to assets held for sale note 23 2.4 Nil Nil 2.4 Reclassifications Nil 0.1 0.1 Nil At end of year 21.3 444.4 97.7 563.4 Net book value at beginning of year 178.4 441.3 32.7 652.4 Net book value at end of year 205.2 524.0 56.5 785.7 Included in the above net book value at end of year are: Assets on hire purchase Nil 206.5 Nil 206.5 Leased PSV assets Nil 85.6 Nil 85.6 Short leasehold land and buildings 25.4 Nil Nil 25.4 Long leasehold land and buildings 24.3 Nil Nil 24.3 page 66 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 67 Note 14 Interests in joint ventures The principal joint ventures are: Nominal value Number of of share capital Country of shares in issue in issue at % interest incorporation at 30 April 2010 30 April 2010 held Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited United Kingdom 34,780 3,478 49% Scottish Citylink Limited United Kingdom 1,643,312 1,643,312 35% New York Splash Tours LLC USA n a n a 50% Twin America LLC USA n a n a 60% The Group has four joint ventures: Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited, Scottish Citylink Limited Citylink, New York Splash Tours LLC and Twin America LLC.
Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited is the holding company of Virgin Rail Group Limited, which in turn is the holding company of West Coast Trains Limited.
The Virgin Rail Group Holdings shareholders agreement provides for joint decision making on key matters and equal representation on the Board.
As a consequence, the investment has been accounted for as a joint venture.
Stagecoach acquired 35% of the share capital of Citylink on 12 September 2005 in return for transferring certain rights to the Motorvator and megabus.
The Citylink shareholder agreement provides for joint and unanimous decision making on all key matters and therefore the investment has been accounted for as a joint venture.
In North America, Stagecoach has two joint ventures, New York Splash Tours LLC, with Port Imperial Duck Charters LLC and Twin America LLC, with CitySights NY.
New York Splash Tours LLC currently has no share capital but is governed by a joint venture agreement.
Stagecoach began operating Twin America LLC, a joint venture with CitySights NY, on 31 March 2009.
In return for transferring certain assets to the joint venture, the Group holds 60% of the economic rights and 50% of the voting rights.
Twin America LLC has no share capital and is governed by a joint venture agreement.
The Directors undertook an impairment review as at 30 April 2010 of the carrying value of the Groups joint venture interests and concluded that there had been no impairment loss.
Virgin Rail Twin Total Total Group Citylink America LLC 2010 2009 m m m m m Cost At beginning of year 60.3 3.5 48.0 111.8 71.9 Transferred from subsidiaries Nil Nil Nil Nil 41.5 Share of recognised profit 19.2 1.2 8.5 28.9 35.9 Share of actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes, net of tax 0.1 Nil Nil 0.1 2.1 Share of net fair value gains on joint ventures cash flow hedges, net of tax 1.3 Nil NIl 1.3 Nil Dividends received in cash 25.1 1.3 9.3 35.7 44.9 Dividend received in respect of loan settlement Nil Nil Nil Nil 0.3 Foreign exchange movements Nil Nil 1.5 1.5 5.6 At end of year 55.8 3.4 45.7 104.9 111.8 Amounts written off At beginning of year 43.1 Nil Nil 43.1 38.0 Goodwill charged during year 5.1 Nil Nil 5.1 5.1 At end of year 48.2 Nil Nil 48.2 43.1 Net book value at beginning of year 17.2 3.5 48.0 68.7 33.9 Net book value at end of year 7.6 3.4 45.7 56.7 68.7 In addition to the above interest in joint ventures, a loan receivable from New York Splash Tours LLC of 3.1m 2009: 2.7m is reflected in note 21.
New York Splash Tours LLC has net liabilities as at 30 April 2010 of 3.8m 2009: 3.0m.
The Group has not recognised its share of the net liabilities but has assessed the loan receivable for impairment and a provision for impairment of 3.1m 2009: 1.4m has been held against the receivable.
A loan payable to Scottish Citylink Limited of 1.7m 2009: Nil is reflected in note 24.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 67 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 14 Interests in joint ventures continued The Groups share of the net assets of its joint ventures is analysed below: Virgin Rail Twin Total Total Group Citylink America LLC 2010 2009 m m m m m Non-current assets 4.4 0.1 14.0 18.5 21.8 Current assets 88.3 2.9 4.6 95.8 94.7 Current liabilities 94.4 2.2 2.4 99.0 95.2 Share of net liabilities assets 1.7 0.8 16.2 15.3 21.3 Goodwill 9.3 2.6 29.5 41.4 47.4 7.6 3.4 45.7 56.7 68.7 The Groups share of post-tax results from joint ventures is analysed below: Virgin Rail New York Splash Twin Total Total Group Citylink Tours LLC America LLC 2010 2009 m m m m m m Revenue 355.3 10.2 0.3 39.7 405.5 337.1 Expenses 329.8 8.5 1.2 30.8 370.3 292.7 Operating profit loss 25.5 1.7 0.9 8.9 35.2 44.4 Finance income net 0.2 Nil Nil Nil 0.2 2.3 Taxation 6.5 0.5 Nil 0.4 7.4 11.4 Share of joint ventures profit loss after taxation 19.2 1.2 0.9 8.5 28.0 35.3 A net actuarial gain after taxation of 0.1m 2009: gain of 2.1m was recognised in addition to the above in relation to Virgin Rail Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
A net gain after taxation of 1.3m 2009: Nil was recognised in addition to the above in relation to fair value gains on fuel derivative contracts held by Virgin Rail Group.
Note 15 Interest in associate 2010 2009 m m Cost and net book value At beginning and end of year Nil Nil During the year ended 30 April 2007, the Groups principal associated undertaking ceased trading and an application was made in February 2009 to strike off the undertaking.
The undertaking was dissolved on 9 March 2010 and the Groups interest in the undertaking ceased at this time.
The principal associate was: Nominal value Number of of share capital Country of shares in issue in issue at % interest incorporation at 30 April 2010 30 April 2010 held Prepayment Cards Limited United Kingdom Nil Nil Nil The Groups share of the net assets of its associate is Nil 2009: Nil.
The Groups share of post-tax results from its associate is Nil 2009: Nil.
Note 16 Available for sale and other investments 2010 2009 m m Cost valuation At beginning of year 3.3 3.6 Additions 0.6 Nil Net fair value losses 0.2 0.4 Foreign exchange movements Nil 0.1 At end of year 3.7 3.3 Amounts written off At beginning and end of year 1.8 1.8 Net book value at beginning of year 1.5 1.8 Net book value at end of year 1.9 1.5 page 68 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 69 Note 17 Acquisitions During the year one small acquisition was concluded for a total consideration of 1.5m in cash and the Group acquired 100% of the voting rights.
Revenue and operating profit of the acquired business from 1 May 2009 to the date of acquisition was not material to the Group.
2010 2009 m m Fair value to Group Intangible fixed assets excluding goodwill 0.5 7.1 Property, plant and equipment 1.1 14.6 Other net liabilities 1.8 12.9 Net liabilities assets 0.2 8.8 Goodwill 1.7 10.3 Consideration 1.5 19.1 Costs of acquisitions in year 0.1 0.3 Less: deferred consideration outstanding Nil 1.5 Add: deferred consideration paid in respect of businesses acquired in prior years 0.6 0.7 Net cash and cash equivalents acquired including overdrafts 0.3 0.4 Net cash outflow 2.5 19.0 The goodwill arising on the acquisition is attributable to the value of the workforce, transport timetables, rosters, other business information and other potential economic benefits expected to be derived from the acquired businesses.
Further details of the acquisitions made during the year ended 30 April 2010 are provided below.
Initial Restatement Fair value book to fair to the value value Group m m m Intangible fixed assets excluding goodwill Nil 0.5 0.5 Property, plant and equipment 1.3 0.2 1.1 Trade and other receivables 0.3 Nil 0.3 Trade and other payables 0.9 Nil 0.9 Bank overdrafts 0.3 Nil 0.3 Hire purchase liabilities 0.4 Nil 0.4 Provisions 0.3 0.2 0.5 Net liabilities acquired 0.3 0.1 0.2 Goodwill arising on acquisition Nil 1.7 1.7 Total consideration to be settled in cash 0.3 1.8 1.5 Note 18 Disposals Exceptional gains of 3.9m 2009: Nil for the year ended 30 April 2010 have been included in the consolidated income statement as the results of discontinued operations.
These gains arose from the release of liabilities that were previously recorded for amounts potentially owing which are now no longer payable in respect of disposed businesses.
In respect of the businesses disposed of, the consideration, net assets disposed and profit on disposal for the year ended 30 April 2010, were as follows: 2009 2009 2010 2009 Discontinued Other Total Total m m Net assets disposed 3.5 Nil Loss on disposal 19.9 3.3 Nil 3.2 Nil Net consideration received in year Nil 1.7 0.3 Nil Deferred consideration received in year in respect of businesses disposed of in prior yearsil 0.8 0.1.
3 0.3 Net cash inflow Nil 3.6 1.6 0.3 Stagecoach Group plc | page 69 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 70 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 19 Principal subsidiaries The principal subsidiary undertakings ordinary shares 100% owned except where shown as at 30 April 2010 were: Country of registration or Company incorporation Principal activity Stagecoach Transport Holdings plc Scotland Holding company SCOTO Limited England Holding company SCUSI Limited England Holding company Stagecoach Bus Holdings Limited Scotland Holding company The Integrated Transport Company Limited Scotland Holding company Stagecoach South Ltd England Bus and coach operator Stagecoach North West Ltd England Bus and coach operator East Midland Motor Services Ltd England Bus and coach operator Stagecoach Scotland Ltd Scotland Bus and coach operator East Kent Road Car Company Ltd England Bus and coach operator Stagecoach West Ltd England Bus and coach operator Busways Travel Services Ltd England Bus and coach operator Cleveland Transit Ltd England Bus and coach operator Cambus Ltd England Bus and coach operator Greater Manchester Buses South Ltd England Bus and coach operator Highland Country Buses Ltd Scotland Bus and coach operator Orkney Coaches Ltd Scotland Bus and coach operator Preston Bus Ltd England Bus and coach operator Eastbourne Buses Ltd England Bus and coach operator The Yorkshire Traction Group Ltd England Bus and coach operator Stagecoach Services Limited England Provision of accounting and payroll services National Transport Tokens Ltd 99.9% England Transport tokens PSV Claims Bureau Ltd England Claims handling Stagecoach South Western Trains Ltd England Train operating company East Midlands Trains Limited England Train operating company Trentway-Wager Inc Canada Bus and coach operator All companies operate in the countries shown above and, except for Stagecoach Transport Holdings plc, are indirectly held.
The Group considers any subsidiary that has revenue greater than 25.0m per annum, profit before interest and taxation greater than 2.5m per annum, gross assets greater than 25.0m or gross liabilities greater than 25.0m to be a principal subsidiary.
These thresholds exclude any intercompany amounts and investments in subsidiaries.
Note 20 Inventories 2010 2009 m m Parts and consumables 24.1 22.0 All inventories are carried at cost less a provision to take account of slow moving and obsolete items.
Changes in the provision for slow moving and obsolete stock were as follows: 2010 2009 m m At beginning of year 1.8 2.1 Charged to income 0.2 0.2 Amount released to income, not used 0.1 Nil Amount utilised 0.3 0.7 Foreign exchange movements Nil 0.2 At end of year 1.6 1.8 There was no material write down of inventories during the current or prior year.
The Group is party to consignment stock arrangements and as at 30 April 2010, the Group physically held consignment stock of a value amounting to 0.7m 2009: 0.8m in addition to the amounts disclosed above.
page 70 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 71 Note 21 Trade and other receivables 2010 2009 m m Non-current: Loan to joint venture 3.1 2.7 Less: provision for impairment 3.1 1.4 Nil 1.3 Prepayments 17.2 5.1 Accrued income Nil 0.1 Other receivables 0.4 0.3 17.6 6.8 Current: Trade receivables 128.8 132.0 Less: provision for impairment 4.5 4.3 Trade receivables net 124.3 127.7 Other receivables 12.4 4.6 Prepayments 25.5 41.1 Accrued income 21.7 20.3 VAT and other government receivables 16.4 18.7 200.3 212.4 A loan of US$4.7m 2009: US$4.0m to New York Splash Tours LLC is outstanding at 30 April 2010.
The loan is interest bearing at 7% per annum and is repayable by instalments.
The loan outstanding as at 30 April 2010, translated at year end rates was 3.1m 2009: 2.7m and is included in noncurrent trade and other receivables.
2010 2009 The movement in the provision for impairment of trade receivables was as follows: m m At beginning of year 4.3 2.6 Impairment losses in year charged to income 1.8 1.6 Reversal of impairment losses credited to income 0.5 0.2 Amounts utilised 1.0 Nil Foreign exchange movements 0.1 0.3 At end of year 4.5 4.3 Further information on credit risk is provided in note 29.
Note 22 Cash and cash equivalents 2010 2009 m m Cash at bank and in hand 375.7 277.3 The cash amounts shown above include 169.0m on 3 month deposit maturing by June 2010, 32.0m deposited on 30 day notice accounts and 10.4m deposited in a 7 day notice account 2009: 10.0m on six month deposit maturing by July 2009, 40.0m on three month deposit maturing by June 2009 and 3.0m on two month deposit maturing by May 2009.
The remaining amounts are accessible to the Group within one day 2009: one day.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 71 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 23 Asset classified as held for sale 2010 2009 m m Property, plant and equipment Nil 2.4 Land owned by the Group previously classified as held for sale was withdrawn for sale by the Group during the year ended 30 April 2010 and the fair value less costs to sell of the land has been reclassified to property, plant and equipment as shown in note 13.
Note 24 Trade and other payables 2010 2009 m m Current Trade payables 124.6 149.0 Accruals 300.2 296.5 Deferred income 74.2 59.3 Cash-settled share based payment liability 0.4 2.2 Deferred grant income 4.0 1.8 Loans from joint ventures 1.7 Nil PAYE and NIC payable 18.1 20.5 VAT and other government payables 1.4 0.9 524.6 530.2 Non-current Accruals 11.1 18.1 Deferred grant income 7.3 3.7 Cash-settled share based payment liability 0.4 0.7 PAYE and NIC payable 0.4 0.1 VAT and other government payables 0.4 0.4 Other payables 0.8 1.2 20.4 24.2 Note 25 Borrowings 2010 2009 m m Current US dollar 8.625% Notes Nil 207.2 Loan notes 26.2 33.8 Hire purchase and lease obligations 21.3 33.1 Redeemable B preference shares 3.3 5.4 50.8 279.5 Non-current Sterling 5.75% Notes 406.9 Nil Bank loans Nil 149.9 Hire purchase and lease obligations 219.2 197.5 626.1 347.4 Total borrowings 676.9 626.9 page 72 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 73 Note 25 Borrowings continued The minimum lease payments under hire purchase and lease obligations fall due as follows: 2010 2009 restated m m Not later than one year 26.0 37.2 Later than one year but not more than five years 152.3 135.7 More than five years 78.6 72.8 256.9 245.7 Future finance costs on hire purchase and finance leases 16.4 15.1 Carrying value of hire purchase and finance lease liabilities 240.5 230.6 For variable-rate hire purchase arrangements, the future finance costs included in the above table are based on the interest rates applying at the balance sheet date.
The prior year comparatives have been restated to be on the same basis.
The Group in its ordinary course of business enters into hire purchase and finance lease agreements to fund or refinance the purchase of vehicles.
All of the hire purchase and lease obligations shown above are in respect of vehicles.
The lease agreements are typically for periods of 5 to 10 years and do not have contingent rent or escalation clauses.
The agreements have industry standard terms and do not contain any restrictions on dividends, additional debt or further leasing.
a US Dollar 8.625% Notes On 9 November 1999, the Group issued US$500m of 8.625% Notes due in 2009.
Interest on the Notes was payable six monthly in arrears.
Those which had not been previously redeemed or purchased and cancelled, were redeemed at their principal amount on 15 November 2009.
The Notes were issued at 99.852% of their principal amount.
The consolidated carrying value of the Notes at 30 April 2010 was Nil 2009: 207.2m, after taking account of the Notes purchased by the Group, the discount on issue, issue costs, accrued interest and the gain on close out of various interest rate swaps previously used to manage the interest rate profile of the Notes.
b Sterling 5.75% Notes On 16 December 2009, the Group issued 400m of 5.75% Notes due in 2016.
Interest on the Notes is paid annually in arrears and all remaining Notes will be redeemed at their principal amount on 16 December 2016.
The Notes were issued at 99.599% of their principal amount.
The consolidated carrying value of the Notes at 30 April 2010 was 406.9m 2009: Nil after taking account of the discount on issue, issue costs and the fair value of interest rate swaps used to manage the interest rate profile of the Notes.
c Repayment profile 2010 2009 Borrowings are repayable as follows: m m On demand or within 1 year Loan notes 26.2 33.8 Hire purchase and lease obligations 21.3 33.1 Redeemable B preference shares 3.3 5.4 US Dollar 8.625% Notes Nil 207.2 50.8 279.5 Within 1-2 years Hire purchase and lease obligations 38.4 32.7 38.4 32.7 Within 2-5 years Bank loans Nil 149.9 Hire purchase and lease obligations 102.8 92.7 102.8 242.6 Over 5 years Hire purchase and lease obligations 78.0 72.1 Sterling 5.75% Notes 406.9 Nil 484.9 72.1 Total borrowings 676.9 626.9 Less current maturities 50.8 279.5 Non-current portion of borrowings 626.1 347.4 Interest terms on UK bank loans are at annual rates between 0.25% and 0.65% over bank base rate or equivalent LIBOR rates.
Interest terms on UK hire purchase and lease obligations are at annual rates between 0.40% and 2.00% over bank base rate or equivalent LIBOR rates.
Interest terms on overseas lease obligations are at fixed rates, which at 30 April 2010 average 4.3% per annum.
Interest on loan notes are at three months LIBOR.
Loan notes amounting to 26.2m 2009: 33.8m are backed by guarantees provided under Group banking facilities.
The loan notes have been classified by reference to the earliest date on which the loan note holders can request redemptions.
UK bank loans and Sterling Notes are unsecured.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 73 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 74 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 26 Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Net The Group movement in deferred tax during the year was as follows: liabilities asset m m m Beginning of year 19.5 5.3 14.2 Charge to income statement 9.8 4.2 14.0 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and other businesses 0.1 Nil 0.1 Charge to equity 10.0 Nil 10.0 Foreign exchange movements Nil 0.2 0.2 End of year 19.2 1.3 17.9 The deferred tax liabilities after more than one year are 19.2m 2009: 19.5m.
The deferred tax asset due after more than one year is Nil 2009: Nil.
The deferred tax asset of 1.3m 2009: 5.3m has been recognised in respect of tax losses.
Based on tax workings scheduling the reversal of the asset, it is expected to be utilised over the next year 2009: one year.
2010 2009 Deferred taxation is calculated as follows: m m Accelerated capital allowances 100.9 103.6 Pension temporary differences 56.6 22.9 Short-term temporary differences 26.4 66.5 17.9 14.2 The amount of deferred tax recognised in the income statement by type of temporary difference is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Accelerated capital allowances 1.8 9.8 Pension temporary differences 5.1 8.2 Short-term temporary differences 10.7 3.2 14.0 21.2 Note 27 Provisions 2010 2009 m m Token redemption provision 14.8 16.4 Insurance provisions 115.2 110.0 Environmental provisions 3.6 4.1 Redundancy provisions 1.8 9.2 Provisions for onerous contracts 0.2 0.2 135.6 139.9 The token redemption provision relates to tokens issued to third parties to be redeemed as payment for transportation services.
Tokens are typically redeemed within three years of issue.
The insurance provisions relate to insurance reserves on incurred accidents up to 30 April in each year where claims have not been settled.
These are based on actuarial reviews and prior claims history.
Claims are typically settled within five years of origination.
The environmental provisions relate to legal or constructive obligations to undertake environmental work, such as an obligation to rectify land which has been contaminated by fuel or to eliminate the presence of asbestos.
The provision is based on the estimated cost of undertaking the work required, and is expected to be fully utilised over the next three years.
The redundancy provisions relate to planned redundancies in the UK Rail Division.
Provisions for onerous contracts relate to contracts that have been acquired through business combinations that have been identified as loss making.
The Group movement during the year was as follows: Token redemption Insurance Environmental Redundancy Provisions for provision provisions provisions provision onerous contracts Total m m m m m m Beginning of year 16.4 110.0 4.1 9.2 0.2 139.9 Provided during year after discounting Nil 48.3 0.3 0.2 Nil 48.8 Unwinding of discount Nil 3.7 Nil Nil Nil 3.7 Utilised in the year Nil 45.6 1.0 6.8 0.2 53.6 Release of unutilised provisions Nil Nil Nil 0.8 Nil 0.8 Arising on business combinations Nil Nil 0.3 Nil 0.2 0.5 Arising on sale of tokens during year 3.2 Nil Nil Nil Nil 3.2 Redemption of tokens 4.8 Nil Nil Nil Nil 4.8 Foreign exchange movements Nil 1.2 0.1 Nil Nil 1.3 End of year 14.8 115.2 3.6 1.8 0.2 135.6 30 April 2010: Current 4.5 39.0 1.2 1.8 0.1 46.6 Non-current 10.3 76.2 2.4 Nil 0.1 89.0 14.8 115.2 3.6 1.8 0.2 135.6 30 April 2009: Current 4.5 40.6 2.2 9.2 0.2 56.7 Non-current 11.9 69.4 1.9 Nil Nil 83.2 16.4 110.0 4.1 9.2 0.2 139.9 page 74 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 75 Note 28 Retirement benefits The Group contributes to a number of pension schemes.
The principal defined benefit occupational schemes are as follows: The Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme SGPS : The South West Trains section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS : The Island Line section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS : The East Midlands Trains section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS : and A number of UK Local Government Pension Schemes LGPS.
The Directors believe that separate consideration should be given to RPS as the Group has no rights or obligations in respect of sections of the scheme following expiry of the related franchises.
In addition, under the terms of the RPS, any fund deficit or surplus is shared by the employer 60% and the employees 40% in accordance with the shared cost nature of the RPS.
The employees share of the deficit or surplus is reflected as an adjustment to the RPS liabilities or assets.
Therefore the liability or asset recognised for the relevant sections of RPS reflects that part of the net deficit or surplus of each section that the employer is obliged to fund or expected to recover over the life of the franchise to which the section relates.
The franchise adjustment is the portion of the deficit that is expected to exist at the end of the franchise and for which the Group will not be obliged to fund.
In addition, the Group contributes to a number of defined contribution DC schemes, covering UK and non-UK employees.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet were as follows: As at 30 April 2010 Funded plans SGPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total plans m m m m m m Equities 371.4 319.2 521.1 424.8 178.0 0.2 Nil 1,124.1 Bonds 69.9 53.8 125.7 88.9 56.2 0.6 Nil 271.4 Cash 65.5 1.2 46.0 2.8 16.3 0.4 Nil 65.5 Property 44.3 54.1 25.9 84.2 19.4 Nil Nil 129.5 Fair value of plan assets 551.1 428.3 718.7 600.7 269.9 1.2 Nil 1,590.5 Present value of obligations gross liabilities 551.1 428.3 814.8 850.2 329.5 4.1 4.6 2,003.2 adjustment for members share of RPS deficit 40% 551.1 428.3 Nil 99.8 Nil Nil Nil 99.8 franchise adjustment Nil Nil Nil 110.8 Nil Nil Nil 110.8 Nil Nil 814.8 639.6 329.5 4.1 4.6 1,792.6 Liabilities recognised in the balance sheet 27.3 4.8 96.1 38.9 59.6 2.9 4.6 202.1 Funded plans As at 30 April 2009 SGPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total plans m m m m m m Equities 371.4 319.2 411.1 310.9 136.1 0.2 Nil 858.3 Bonds 69.9 53.8 110.7 68.9 50.0 0.5 Nil 230.1 Cash 65.5 1.2 53.3 0.6 18.3 0.3 Nil 72.5 Property 44.3 54.1 4.1 77.2 16.2 Nil Nil 97.5 Fair value of plan assets 551.1 428.3 579.2 457.6 220.6 1.0 Nil 1,258.4 Present value of obligations gross liabilities 551.1 428.3 590.8 569.0 254.5 3.5 4.4 1,422.2 adjustment for members share of RPS deficit 40% 551.1 428.3 Nil 44.5 Nil Nil Nil 44.5 franchise adjustment Nil Nil Nil 38.7 Nil Nil Nil 38.7 Nil Nil 590.8 485.8 254.5 3.5 4.4 1,339.0 Liabilities recognised in the balance sheet 27.3 4.8 11.6 28.2 33.9 2.5 4.4 80.6 2010 2009 The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: % % Equities 70.7 68.2 Bonds 17.1 18.3 Cash 4.1 5.8 Property 8.1 7.7 100.0 100.0 Stagecoach Group plc | page 75 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 76 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 28 Retirement benefits continued The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows: Year ended 30 April 2010 Funded plans Unfunded SGPS RPS LGPS Other Total and DC plans m m m m m m m m Defined benefit schemes: Current service cost 19.3 20.6 1.7 0.6 Nil 42.2 Curtailments Nil 0.7 Nil Nil Nil 0.7 Interest cost 40.3 23.5 16.8 0.2 Nil 80.8 Expected return on plan assets 42.0 21.9 16.0 0.1 Nil 80.0 Unwinding of franchise adjustment Nil 2.7 Nil Nil Nil 2.7 Total defined benefit costs 17.6 18.8 2.5 0.7 Nil 39.6 Defined contribution costs Nil Nil Nil Nil 5.2 5.2 Total included in staff costs 17.6 18.8 2.5 0.7 5.2 44.8 The actual return on plan assets for the year ended 30 April 2010 was 326.9m.
Year ended 30 April 2009 Funded plans Unfunded SGPS RPS LGPS Other Total and DC plans m m m m m m m m Defined benefit schemes: Current service cost 20.5 19.1 2.4 Nil Nil 42.0 Curtailments Nil 1.0 Nil Nil Nil 1.0 Interest cost 38.6 23.2 16.3 0.1 Nil 78.2 Expected return on plan assets 44.9 29.5 18.2 0.1 Nil 92.7 Total defined benefit costs 14.2 11.8 0.5 Nil Nil 26.5 Defined contribution costs Nil Nil Nil Nil 2.2 2.2 Total included in staff costs 14.2 11.8 0.5 Nil 2.2 28.7 The actual return on plan assets for the year ended 30 April 2009 was 241.5 m. page 76 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 77 Note 28 Retirement benefits continued The movements in the net liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit plans for the year ended 30 April 2010 were as follows: Funded plans Year ended 30 April 2010 SGPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total plans m m m m m m At beginning of year liability 11.6 28.2 33.9 2.5 4.4 80.6 Total expense 4.8 9.8 17.6 18.8 2.5 0.7 Nil 39.6 Actuarial losses gains 13.0 7.5 94.5 16.7 27.3 0.3 0.5 138.7 Employers contributions and settlements 30.0 3.3 27.6 24.8 4.1 Nil 0.3 56.8 Foreign exchange movements 18.3 17.9 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil At end of year liability 27.3 19.5 96.1 38.9 59.6 2.9 4.6 202.1 The movements in the net asset liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit plans for the year ended 30 April 2009 were as follows: Funded plans SGPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total Year ended 30 April 2009 plans m m m m m m At beginning of year asset liability 27.3 19.5 8.2 1.0 4.4 33.2 Acquisitions 11.5 Nil Nil Nil 0.9 Nil Nil 0.9 Total expense 4.8 9.8 14.2 11.8 0.5 Nil Nil 26.5 Actuarial losses 13.0 7.5 55.7 58.1 29.3 1.1 0.3 144.5 Employers contributions and settlements 30.0 3.3 31.0 22.2 5.0 Nil 0.3 58.5 Foreign exchange movements 18.3 17.9 Nil Nil Nil 0.4 Nil 0.4 At end of year liability 27.3 19.5 11.6 28.2 33.9 2.5 4.4 80.6 The movements in the total present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows: 2010 2009 m m At beginning of year 1,339.0 1,432.1 Current service cost 42.2 42.0 Interest cost 80.8 78.2 Unwinding of franchise adjustment 2.7 Nil Members contributions paid 8.7 15.2 Actuarial losses gains 385.6 180.4 Benefits paid 60.0 58.3 Curtailments 0.7 1.0 Settlements Nil 1.6 Foreign exchange movements 0.3 0.8 Acquisitions Nil 12.0 At end of year 1,792.6 1,339.0 Movements in the total fair value of scheme assets were as follows: 2010 2009 m m At beginning of year 1,258.4 1,474.6 Expected return on scheme assets 80.0 92.7 Actuarial gains losses 246.9 334.2 Other employers contributions and settlements 56.8 56.9 Members contributions paid 8.7 15.2 Benefits paid 60.0 58.3 Foreign exchange movements 0.3 0.4 Acquisitions Nil 11.1 At end of year 1,590.5 1,258.4 Stagecoach Group plc | page 77 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 78 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 28 Retirement benefits continued The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income were as follows: 2010 2009 m m Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 246.9 334.2 Experience adjustment, arising on scheme liabilities 42.3 59.7 Adjustment for unrecognised surplus Nil 9.3 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the liabilities 497.3 82.0 Franchise adjustment 69.4 38.7 Total actuarial loss recognised 138.7 144.5 The history of experience adjustments is as follows: 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities: Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities: Experience adjustments m 42.3 59.7 28.6 18.1 92.7 Scheme liabilities m 1,792.6 1,339.0 1,432.1 1,325.0 1,461.6 Percentage of scheme liabilities % 2.4 % 4.5 % 2.0% 1.4% 6.3% Experience adjustments on scheme assets: Experience adjustments m 246.9 334.2 141.7 55.2 196.9 Scheme assets m 1,590.5 1,258.4 1,474.6 1,290.2 1,239.4 Percentage of scheme assets % 15.5% 26.6 % 9.6 % 4.3% 15.9% The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses on Group defined benefit schemes recognised in the statement of comprehensive income since 1 May 2004 is a 236.2m loss 2009: 97.5m loss.
The estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid by the Group to the schemes during the financial year ending 30 April 2011 is 62.1m estimated at 30 April 2009 for year ended 30 April 2010: 59.4m.
The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows: 2010 2009 Rate of increase in salaries SGPS 3.4% 3.4% Rate of increase in salaries other defined benefit schemes 4.4% 4.0% Rate of increase of pensions in payment SGPS 3.4% 3.0% other defined benefit schemes 2.4%-3.3% 2.4%-2.9% Discount rate 5.7% 6.9% Inflation 3.4% 3.0% Expected long-term rates of return as at 30 April were: Equities 8.3% 8.3% Bonds 5.0% 5.3% Cash 4.7% 4.6% Property 7.5% 7.5% includes private equity The expected return on plan assets is based on expectations at the beginning of the period for returns over the entire life of the benefit obligation.
The expected returns are set in conjunction with external advisors and take account of market factors, fund managers views and targets for future returns and where appropriate, historical returns.
The life expectancy assumptions used for each scheme are periodically reviewed.
The weighted average life expectancies assumed as at 30 April 2010 were: 2010 2009 years years Current pensioners aged 65 male 19.5 19.3 Current pensioners aged 65 female 23.8 23.7 Future pensioners at age 65 aged 45 now male 21.8 21.7 Future pensioners at age 65 aged 45 now female 25.9 25.8 Note 29 Financial instruments a Overview This note provides details of the Groups financial instruments.
Except where otherwise stated, the disclosures provided in this note exclude: Interests in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures accounted for in accordance with International Accounting Standard 27 IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, International Accounting Standard 28 IAS 28, Investments in Associates, and International Accounting Standard 31 IAS 31, Interests in Joint Ventures.
Retirement benefit assets and obligations.
Contracts for contingent consideration in a business combination.
Financial instruments, contracts and obligations under share based payment transactions.
Liabilities or assets that are not contractual such as income taxes that are created as a result of statutory requirements imposed by governments, prepayments, accrued income, provisions and deferred grant income are not financial liabilities or financial assets.
Accordingly, provisions, deferred grant income and amounts payable or receivable in respect of corporation tax, sales tax including UK Value Added Tax, payroll tax and other taxes are excluded from the disclosures provided in this note.
page 78 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 79 Note 29 Financial instruments continued b Carrying values of financial assets and financial liabilities The carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet and their respective fair values were: 2010 2009 2010 2009 Other balance Carrying value Carrying value restated Fair value Fair value restated sheet notes m m m m Financial assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Nil Nil Nil Nil Held-to-maturity investments Nil Nil Nil Nil Loans and receivables Non-current assets Accrued income 21 Nil 0.1 Nil 0.1 Other receivables 21 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.3 Loan to joint venture, net of impairment 21 Nil 1.3 Nil 1.3 Current assets Accrued income 21 21.7 20.3 21.7 20.3 Trade receivables, net of impairment 21 124.3 127.7 124.3 127.7 Other receivables 21 12.4 4.6 12.4 4.6 Cash and cash equivalents 22 375.7 277.3 375.7 277.3 Available for sale financial assets Non-current assets Available for sale and other investments 16 1.9 1.5 1.9 1.5 Total financial assets 536.4 433.1 536.4 433.1 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Nil Nil Nil Nil Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Non-current liabilities Accruals 24 11.1 18.1 11.1 18.1 Other payables 24 0.8 1.2 0.8 1.2 Borrowings 25 626.1 347.4 640.7 347.5 Current liabilities Trade payables 24 124.6 149.0 124.6 149.0 Accruals 24 300.2 296.5 300.2 296.5 Loans from joint ventures 24 1.7 Nil 1.7 Nil Borrowings 25 50.8 279.5 50.8 278.0 Total financial liabilities 1,115.3 1,091.7 1,129.9 1,090.3 Net financial liabilities 578.9 658.6 593.5 657.2 In the prior year, the above table included accruals and deferred income but excluded prepayments and accrued income.
Accruals are financial liabilities but not deferred income.
Accrued income represents financial assets but not prepayments.
Accordingly, these categories of assets and liabilities have been further analysed and the prior year amounts in the above table have been restated to include accruals and accrued income but exclude prepayments and deferred income.
The other disclosures in this note 29 have also been restated where appropriate.
Derivatives that are designated as effective hedging instruments are not shown in the above table.
Information on the carrying value of such derivatives is provided in note 29 j.
The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities shown above are determined as follows: The carrying value of loans to joint ventures, accrued income, trade receivables and other receivables is considered to be a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Given the short average time to maturity, no specific assumptions on discount rates have been made.
The effect of credit losses not already reflected in the carrying value as impairment losses is assumed to be immaterial.
Market prices are used, where available, to determine the fair value of available for sale financial assets.
Market prices are available for available for sale financial assets with a carrying value of Nil 2009: 0.2m.
For example, for available for sale investments in the shares of a company quoted on a recognised stock exchange, the fair value of the asset is determined with reference to the quoted bid price as at the balance sheet date.
1.9m 2009: 1.3m of available for sale financial assets for which market prices are not available are measured at cost because their fair value cannot be measured reliably the fair value of these assets is shown in the above table as being equal to their carrying value.
The carrying value of trade payables, other payables, accruals and loans from joint ventures is considered to be a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Given the relatively short average time to maturity, no specific assumptions on discount rates have been made.
The fair value of fixed-rate notes included in borrowings that are quoted on a recognised stock exchange is determined with reference to the bid price as at the balance sheet date.
The carrying value of fixed rate hire purchase and finance lease liabilities included in borrowings is considered to be a reasonable approximation of fair value taking account of the amounts involved in the context of total financial liabilities and the fixed interest rates relative to market interest rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of other borrowings on which interest is payable at floating rates is not considered to be materially different from the carrying value, except in respect of bank loans where unamortised arrangement fees of Nil 2009: 0.1m are excluded from the fair value.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 79 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 80 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 29 Financial instruments continued We do not consider that the fair value of financial instruments would change materially from that shown above as a result of any reasonable change to the assumptions made in determining the fair values shown above.
The fair value of financial instruments, and in particular the fixed rate notes, would be affected by changes in market interest rates.
We estimate that a 100 basis points reduction in market interest rates would increase the fair value of the fixed-rate notes liability by around 23.3m 2009: 1.0m.
At 30 April 2010, this increase would be partly offset by a movement of 7.0m in the fair value of the Groups interest rate derivatives see note 29 j, which are fair value hedges of a portion of the fixed-rate notes.
Fair value estimation As of 1 May 2009, the Group has adopted the amendment to IFRS 7 for financial instruments that are measured in the balance sheet at fair value.
This requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Level 0 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 1 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices.
Level 2 Inputs for the assets or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value within the hierarchy at 30 April 2010.
Note Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets Derivatives used for hedging 29 j Nil 31.2 Nil 31.2 Available for sale financial assets Equity securities Nil Nil 1.9 1.9 Total assets Nil 31.2 1.9 33.1 Liabilities Derivatives used for hedging 29 j Nil 11.3 Nil 11.3 Total liabilities Nil 11.3 Nil 11.3 The following table presents the changes in Level 3 financial assets for the year ended 30 April 2010: Equity Securities m At 1 May 2009 1.3 Purchases 0.6 At 30 April 2010 1.9 c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments The Groups use of financial instruments exposes it to a variety of financial risks, principally: Market risk including currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk: Credit risk: and Liquidity risk.
This note c presents qualitative information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, including the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk: there have been no significant changes to these matters during the year ended 30 April 2010.
This note c also provides summary quantitative data about the Groups exposure to each risk.
In addition, information on the Groups management of capital is provided in section 3.8.
15 of the Operating and Financial Review on pages 13 and 14 of this Annual Report.
The Groups overall financial risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the financial performance and financial position of the Group.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk, commodity price risk and interest rate movements.
The Group does not generally hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
A Group Treasury Committee and central treasury department Group Treasury oversee financial risk management in the context of policies approved by the Board.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the Groups operating units.
Group Treasury is responsible for the execution of derivative financial instruments to manage financial risks.
Certain financial risk management activities for example, the management of credit risk arising from trade and other receivables are devolved to the management of individual business units.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and investing excess liquidity.
i Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices and commodity prices will affect the Groups financial performance and or financial position.
The objective of the Groups management of market risk is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments in the ordinary course of business, and also incurs financial liabilities, in order to manage market risks.
All such transactions are carried out within the guidelines set by the Board.
Generally the Group seeks to apply hedge accounting in order to reduce volatility in the consolidated income statement.
Foreign currency translation risk Foreign currency translation risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument including overseas net investments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency translation risk principally as a result of net investments in foreign operations and borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
page 80 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 81 Note 29 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued i Market risk continued The Group has overseas investments in Canada and the USA.
To minimise balance sheet translation exposure, the Group hedges the sterling carrying value of overseas operations through borrowings denominated in their functional currency or, where appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
Gains and losses arising from hedging instruments that provide a hedge against foreign net investments are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
At 30 April 2009, the Groups balance sheet translation exposure in respect of its overseas investments was partially hedged by its US$ bonds combined with a foreign currency derivative contract.
On 7 July 2009, the Group fide-designated this hedge and entered into foreign currency derivative contracts to manage the after-tax translation exposure in respect of its US$ bonds.
The Groups balance sheet translation exposure in respect of its overseas investments was therefore unhedged with effect from 7 July 2009.
Hedge accounting was not applied to the foreign currency derivatives entered into on 7 July 2009.
These US$ bonds matured on 16 November 2009.
On 12 November 2009, the Group drew down US$192.4m of bank loans of which US$30.0m were repaid on 23 November 2009 and the remaining US$162.4m were repaid on 18 December 2009.
These bank loans were accounted for as a hedge of the Groups overseas net investments.
On 18 December 2009, the Group entered into foreign currency derivative contracts with a notional value of US$160.0m, which were accounted for as a hedge of the Groups overseas net investments and this hedging relationship remains in place.
The table below includes the sterling notional value calculated using the year-end exchange rate of the foreign currency derivatives outstanding at the balance sheet date.
The Groups objective in managing and measuring foreign currency translation risk associated with net investments in foreign operations and borrowings denominated in foreign currencies is to maintain an appropriate cost of borrowing and retain some potential for benefiting from currency movements whilst partially hedging against adverse currency movements.
It is the Groups policy to examine each overseas investment individually and to adopt a strategy based on current and forecast political and economic climates.
The Group measures foreign currency translation risk by identifying the carrying value of assets and liabilities denominated in the relevant foreign currency and quantifying the impact on equity of changes in the relevant foreign currency rate.
The Groups consolidated income statement is exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates in the following ways: The translation of the revenues and costs of the Groups North American operations: and The translation of interest payable on US dollar and Canadian dollar denominated debt.
The Groups consolidated balance sheet exposures to foreign currency translation risk were as follows: 2010 2009 m m US dollars Net investments in foreign operations excluding intra-group balances, cash and borrowings 179.7 202.1 Cash 21.6 25.7 Borrowings 51.2 259.5 Notional value of foreign currency derivatives 104.5 Nil Canadian dollars Net investments in foreign operations excluding intra-group balances, cash and borrowings 49.7 38.8 Cash 1.6 1.1 Borrowings 3.9 3.8 Net exposure 302.0 4.4 The amounts shown above are the notional values of all foreign currency derivatives that are net investment hedges and the carrying values of all items in the consolidated balance sheet that would have differed at the balance sheet date had a different foreign currency exchange rate been applied, except that commodity derivatives that are cash flow hedges are excluded.
2010 2009 The sensitivity of the Groups consolidated balance sheet to translation exposures is illustrated below: US dollar US dollar balance sheet foreign exchange rate 1.5307 1.4818 Impact of 10% depreciation of UK sterling against US dollar US dollar foreign exchange rate 1.3776 1.3336 Increase decrease in consolidated equity m 28.3 3.5 Impact of 10% appreciation of UK sterling against US dollar US dollar foreign exchange rate 1.6838 1.6300 Decrease increase in consolidated equity m 23.1 2.9 Canadian dollar Canadian dollar balance sheet foreign exchange rate 1.5504 1.7605 Impact of 10% depreciation of UK sterling against Canadian dollar Canadian dollar foreign exchange rate 1.3954 1.5845 Increase in consolidated equity m 5.3 4.0 Impact of 10% appreciation of UK sterling against Canadian dollar Canadian dollar foreign exchange rate 1.7054 1.9366 Decrease in consolidated equity m 4.3 3.3 The above sensitivity analysis is based on the following assumptions: Only those foreign currency assets and liabilities that are directly affected by changes in foreign exchange rates are included in the calculation.
The above calculations assume that the exchange rates between any pair of currencies other than the pair stated do not change as a result of the change in the exchange rate between the pair stated.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 81 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 29 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued i Market risk continued The Groups consolidated income statement exposures to foreign currency translation risk were as follows: 2010 2009 m m US dollars US$ element of North American operating profit 9.7 20.6 Intangible asset expenses 0.3 0.7 Redundancy restructuring costs 0.3 Nil Share of profit of joint ventures 8.0 0.3 Exceptional items 4.1 Nil Net finance costs 5.2 18.7 Net tax charge 2.8 2.3 Canadian dollars C$ element of North American operating profit Nil 5.0 Net finance costs 0.3 0.2 Net tax credit charge 0.1 1.7 Net exposure 4.8 2.3 The operating profit figures shown in the above table reconcile to the operating profit for North America shown in the segmental information in note 2 b as follows: US$ element of North American operating profit shown above 9.7 20.6 C$ element of North American operating profit shown above Nil 5.0 Share based payment charges denominated in sterling 0.6 0.4 Operating profit shown in segmental information 9.1 25.2 The sensitivity of the Groups consolidated income statement to translational exposures is illustrated below: 2010 2009 US dollar US dollar average foreign exchange rate 1.6020 1.6780 Impact of 10% depreciation of UK sterling against US dollar US dollar foreign exchange rate 1.4418 1.5102 Increase decrease in consolidated profit after taxation m 0.5 0.1 Impact of 10% appreciation of UK sterling against US dollar US dollar foreign exchange rate 1.7622 1.8458 Decrease increase in consolidated profit after taxation m 0.5 0.1 Canadian dollar Canadian dollar average foreign exchange rate 1.7189 1.8955 Impact of 10% depreciation of UK sterling against Canadian dollar Canadian dollar foreign exchange rate 1.5470 1.7060 Increase in consolidated profit after taxation m Nil 0.3 Impact of 10% appreciation of UK sterling against Canadian dollar Canadian dollar foreign exchange rate 1.8908 2.0851 Decrease in consolidated profit after taxation m Nil 0.3 The above sensitivity analysis is based on the following assumptions: Only those income statement items directly affected by changes in foreign exchange rates are included in the calculation.
For example, changes in commodity prices that indirectly occur due to changes in foreign exchange rates are not included in the sensitivity calculation.
page 82 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 83 Note 29 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued i Market risk continued Foreign currency transactional risk Foreign currency transactional risk is the risk that future cash flows such as from sales and purchases of goods and services will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Group is exposed to limited foreign currency transactional risk due to the low value of foreign currency transactions entered into by subsidiaries in currencies other than their functional currency.
Group Treasury carries out forward buying of currencies where appropriate.
The Group reviews and considers hedging of actual and forecast foreign exchange transactional exposures up to one year forward.
At 30 April 2010 there were no material net transactional foreign currency exposures 2009: Nil.
The Groups exposure to commodity price risk includes a foreign currency element due to the impact of foreign exchange rate movements on the sterling cost of fuel for the Groups UK operations.
The effect of foreign exchange rate movements on sterling-denominated fuel prices is managed through the use of fuel derivative financial instruments denominated in the functional currency in which the fuel is purchased.
Further information on fuel hedging is given under the heading Price risk on pages 84 to 86.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk principally through its borrowings and interest rate derivatives.
It has a mixture of fixed-rate borrowings where the fair value is exposed to changes in market interest rates, cash and floating-rate borrowings where the future cash flows are exposed to changes in market interest rates.
The Groups objective with regards to interest rate risk is to minimise the risk of changes in interest rates significantly affecting future cash flows and or profit.
To provide some certainty as to the level of interest cost, it is the Groups policy to manage interest rate exposure through the use of fixed and floating rate debt.
Derivative financial instruments are also used where appropriate to generate the desired interest rate profile.
The Group measures interest rate risk by quantifying the relative proportions of each of gross debt and net debt that are effectively subject to fixed interest rates and considers the duration for which the relevant interest rates are fixed.
Following the issue of the Groups 400m 5.75% bonds in December 2009, the Group adjusted its interest rate management arrangements to ensure an appropriate interest rate profile going forward.
Certain of the Groups existing interest rate cash flow hedges became ineffective and were cancelled.
As a result, the Group entered into interest rate fair value hedges with a notional value of 150m which synthetically convert a proportion of the fixed rate debt to floating rate debt.
At 30 April 2010, the interest rate profile of the Groups interest bearing financial liabilities was as follows: Currency Floating rate Fixed rate Total Weighted Weighted average fixed average period interest rate for which rate is fixed m m m % Years Sterling 355.5 266.3 621.8 5.8% 6.7 US Dollar Nil 51.2 51.2 4.2% 4.7 Canadian Dollar Nil 3.9 3.9 5.1% 1.9 Gross borrowings 355.5 321.4 676.9 5.5% 6.3 At 30 April 2009, the interest rate profile of the Groups interest bearing financial liabilities was as follows: Currency Floating rate Fixed rate Total Weighted Weighted average fixed average period interest rate for which rate is fixed m m m % Years Sterling 201.6 160.4 362.0 5.7% 3.5 US Dollar Nil 261.1 261.1 6.2% 1.6 Canadian Dollar Nil 3.8 3.8 5.1% 2.9 Gross borrowings 201.6 425.3 626.9 6.0% 2.3 All of the above figures take into account the effect of interest rate derivatives.
The floating rate financial liabilities bear interest at rates fixed in advance for periods ranging from one to six months based on market rates.
The maturity profile of the Groups borrowings is shown in note 25 c. The Groups financial assets on which floating interest is receivable comprise cash deposits and cash in hand of 375.7m 2009: 277.3m.
Financial assets on which fixed interest is receivable total 3.1m 2009: 2.7m before impairment and comprise a loan to a joint venture in 2010 and 2009.
The net financial assets on which fixed interest is receivable have a weighted average interest rate of 7.0% 2009: 7.0% and an average maturity of 1.0 years 2009: 2.0 years.
The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
The interest rate derivatives outstanding at 30 April 2010 are designated by the Group as hedging instruments under a fair value accounting model.
No other hedging instruments are accounted for by the Group under a fair value accounting model.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 83 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 29 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued i Market risk continued The impact of a change of 100 basis points on all relevant floating interest rates on annualised interest payable on cash and borrowings balances outstanding at the balance sheet date was: 2010 2009 m m Interest rates 100 basis points higher - Decrease in net finance costs 0.2 0.8 - Increase in net tax charge 0.1 0.3 - Increase in profit after taxation 0.1 0.5 Interest rates 100 basis points lower - Increase in net finance costs 0.2 0.8 - Decrease in net tax charge 0.1 0.3 - Decrease in profit after taxation 0.1 0.5 The above sensitivity analysis is based on the following methods and assumptions: - All relevant floating interest rates including Bank of England base rate and LIBOR change by 100 basis points.
- The change is calculated by working out an annualised interest charge on the amounts outstanding at the balance sheet date and comparing this to the same charge re-calculated for a change of 100 basis points in the interest rate.
While this provides some indication of the impact on future profit and cash flows from changes in interest rates, it does not necessarily indicate the extent to which the profit for the years ended 30 April 2010 and 30 April 2009 would have differed had the interest rates applying during those years been different.
- The impact of changes in interest rates on items that are not financial instruments for example, provisions and pension assets obligations is excluded.
Price risk The Group was exposed to equity security price risk because of an investment held by the Group that was quoted on a recognised stock exchange and classified on the consolidated balance sheet as available for sale.
At 30 April 2010 the investment was carried at Nil 2009: 0.2m.
Any reasonable movement, therefore, on the equity share price would not have a material impact on the Groups financial position.
During the year ended 30 April 2010, the investment ceased to be quoted on a recognised stock exchange.
The Group is also exposed to commodity price risk.
The Groups operations as at 30 April 2010 consume approximately 326m litres of diesel fuel per annum.
As a result, the Groups profit is exposed to movements in the underlying price of fuel.
The Groups objective in managing commodity price risk is to minimise adverse movements in its profit and cash flow as a result of movements in fuel prices.
The Group has a policy of managing the volatility in its fuel costs by maintaining an ongoing fuel-hedging programme whereby derivatives are used to fix or cap the variable unit cost of a percentage of anticipated fuel consumption.
The Groups exposure to commodity price risk is measured by quantifying the element of projected future fuel costs, after taking account of derivatives in place, which varies due to movements in fuel prices.
Group Treasury is responsible for the processes for measuring and managing commodity price risk.
The Groups overall fuel costs include the impact of delivery margins, fuel taxes and fuel tax rebates.
These elements of fuel costs are not managed as part of Group Treasurys commodity price risk management and are managed directly by business unit management.
The Group uses a number of fuel derivatives to hedge against movements in the price of the different types of fuel used in each of its divisions.
Ultra low sulphur diesel used in the UK Bus division is hedged by derivatives priced from the same type of fuel.
Gasoil used in the UK Rail division is hedged by derivatives priced from the same type of fuel.
Diesel used in the North American division is hedged by heating oil swaps that have been determined to be effective hedges of the diesel fuel used with a strong correlation in price movements between the heating oil and diesel products.
The fuel derivatives hedge the underlying commodity price risk denominated in US$ and in the case of the UK Bus division and the UK Rail division, they also hedge the currency risk due to the commodity being priced in US$ and the functional currency of the two divisions being pounds sterling.
The fuel derivatives can include swaps, collars and caps.
page 84 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 85 Note 29 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued i Market risk continued At 30 April 2010 and 30 April 2009, the projected fuel costs excluding premia payable on fuel derivatives, delivery margins, fuel taxes and fuel tax rebates for the next twelve months were: 2010 2009 m m Costs subject to fuel swaps: UK Bus 68.0 86.9 UK Rail 14.9 15.1 North America 18.9 32.4 101.8 134.4 Costs not subject to fuel swaps: UK Bus 1.8 2.1 UK Rail 5.8 3.9 North America 4.6 4.3 12.2 10.3 Total 114.0 144.7 The figures in the above table are after taking account of derivatives and applying the fuel prices and foreign exchange rates as at the balance sheet date.
If all of the relevant fuel prices were 10% higher at the balance sheet date, the amounts in the above table would change by the following: 2010 2009 m m Costs subject to fuel swaps: Nil Nil UK Bus Nil Nil UK Rail Nil Nil North America Nil Nil Nil Nil Costs not subject to fuel swaps: UK Bus 0.2 0.2 UK Rail 0.6 0.4 North America 0.5 0.4 1.3 1.0 Decrease in projected profit before taxation 1.3 1.0 page 85 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 86 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 29 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued i Market risk continued If all of the relevant fuel prices were 10% lower at the balance sheet date, the amounts would change by the following: 2010 2009 m m Costs subject to fuel swaps: UK Bus Nil Nil UK Rail Nil Nil North America Nil Nil Nil Nil Costs not subject to fuel swaps: UK Bus 0.2 0.2 UK Rail 0.6 0.4 North America 0.5 0.4 1.3 1.0 Increase in projected profit before taxation 1.3 1.0 ii Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Credit risk is managed by a combination of Group Treasury and business unit management, and arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to amounts due from outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
The Groups objective is to minimise credit risk to an acceptable level whilst not overly restricting the Groups ability to generate revenue and profit.
It is the Groups policy to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
To control credit risk, counterparty credit limits are set by reference to published credit ratings and the counterpartys geographical location.
The Group considers the risk of material loss in the event of non-performance by a financial counterparty to be low.
In determining whether a financial asset is impaired, the Group takes account of: The fair value of the asset at the balance sheet date and where applicable, the historic fair value of the asset: In the case of receivables, the counterpartys typical payment patterns: In the case of receivables, the latest available information on the counterpartys creditworthiness such as available financial statements, credit ratings etc.
In the case of equity investments classified as available for sale assets, a significant or prolonged reduction in the fair value of the assets is considered as an indicator that the securities might be impaired.
The movement in the provision for impairment of trade and other receivables is shown in note 21.
The table below shows the maximum exposure to credit risk for the Group at the balance sheet date: Gross Impairment Net exposure Gross Impairment Net exposure 2010 2010 2010 2009 restated 2009 restated 2009 restated m m m m m m Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Trade receivables 128.8 4.5 124.3 132.0 4.3 127.7 Loans and other receivables 37.6 3.1 34.5 28.0 1.4 26.6 Cash and cash equivalents pledged as collateral 65.8 Nil 65.8 78.6 Nil 78.6 Cash and cash equivalents - other 309.9 Nil 309.9 198.7 Nil 198.7 Excluding derivative financial instruments 542.1 7.6 534.5 437.3 5.7 431.6 Derivatives used for hedging 31.1 Nil 31.1 3.6 Nil 3.6 Total exposure to credit risk 573.2 7.6 565.6 440.9 5.7 435.2 Available for sale and other investments were included in the analysis of credit risk in the 30 April 2009 Annual Report.
The analysis has now been restated to exclude these items as these items are exposed more to price risk than credit risk.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer or counterparty.
The Groups largest credit exposures are to the UK Department for Transport, other government bodies and financial institutions with short-term credit ratings of A1 or equivalent or better, all of which the Group considers unlikely to default on their respective liabilities to the Group.
page 86 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 87 Note 29 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued ii Credit risk continued 2010 2009 restated The Groups total net exposure to credit risk by geographic region is analysed below: m m United Kingdom 515.5 388.9 North America 50.1 46.3 565.6 435.2 The Groups financial assets by currency are analysed below: 2010 2009 restated m m Sterling 515.3 382.8 US dollars 44.7 48.2 Canadian dollars 5.6 4.2 565.6 435.2 All of the above financial assets carrying amounts are representative of their maximum credit exposure.
The following financial assets were past due, but not impaired at the balance sheet date: 2010 2009 m m Amounts 1 to 90 days overdue 12.5 12.8 Amounts 91 to 180 days overdue 2.3 0.1 Amounts 181 to 365 days overdue 0.1 1.9 Amounts more than 365 days overdue 0.1 0.1 15.0 14.9 The Group does not hold any collateral in respect of its credit risk exposures set out above 2009: Nil and has not taken possession of any collateral it holds or called for other credit enhancements during the year ended 30 April 2010 2009: Nil.
iii Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups objective in managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The funding policy is to finance the Group through a mixture of bank, lease and hire purchase debt, capital markets issues and cash generated by the business.
As at 30 April 2010, the Groups credit facilities were 959.2m 2009: 1,233.4m, 466.0m 2009: 594.3m of which were utilised, including utilisation for the issuance of bank guarantees, bonds and letters of credit.
The Group had the following undrawn committed banking and uncommitted asset finance facilities: 2010 2009 m m Expiring within one year 170.5 162.2 Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years 322.7 0.6 Expiring beyond two years Nil 476.3 493.2 639.1 Although there is an element of seasonality in the Groups bus and rail operations, the overall impact of seasonality on working capital and liquidity is not considered significant.
The Board expects the Group to be able to meet current and future funding requirements through free cash flow and available committed facilities.
In addition, the Group has an investment grade rating which should allow it access at short notice to additional bank and capital markets debt funding.
The Groups principal lines of credit have been arranged on a bi-lateral basis with a group of relationship banks which provide bank facilities for general corporate purposes.
These arranged lines of credit allow cash drawdowns to finance the Group and also include facilities which are dedicated to issuing performance season ticket bonds, guarantees and letters of credit.
The Groups committed bank facilities as at 30 April 2010 are analysed below: Performance bonds, Available for Available for guarantees non-cash cash Facility etc drawn utilisation only drawings Expiring in m m m m MAIN GROUP FACILITIES 2013 59.9 59.9 Nil Nil 2012 420.0 97.3 15.8 306.9 2011 54.3 45.2 9.1 Nil 2010 20.8 20.8 Nil Nil 555.0 223.2 24.9 306.9 LOCAL & SHORT-TERM FACILITIES Various 16.4 2.3 Nil 14.1 571.4 225.5 24.9 321.0 Stagecoach Group plc | page 87 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 88 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 29 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued iii Liquidity risk continued The facility that expires in 2010 was used to provide a performance bond and this has been replaced in May 2010 with a new arrangement expiring in November 2013.
The Groups US$293.1m bonds matured in November 2009 and these were initiallly refinanced from the Groups existing bank facilities.
The Groups main bank facilities are committed through to 2012.
The Group issued a 400m 5.75% bond in December 2009, which matures in December 2016.
The Group also maintains facilities in relation to asset finance Asset Finance Facilities.
Asset Finance Facilities are typically agreed in principle one year in advance and are arranged for the purpose of funding bus vehicle expenditure and for specific UK Rail operating assets.
Asset Finance Facilities include finance leases, hire purchase agreements and operating leases.
The terms of Asset Finance Facilities are dependent on the underlying assets and typically range between five and ten years.
The Group manages its liquidity risk based on contracted cash flows.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
As at 30 April 2010 Carrying Contractual Less 1-2 2-5 More amount cash flows than 1 year years years than 5 years m m m m m m Non derivative financial liabilities: Unsecured bank loans Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Unsecured bond issues 406.9 561.0 23.0 23.0 69.0 446.0 Redeemable preference shares 3.3 3.3 3.3 Nil Nil Nil Finance lease liabilities 55.1 62.2 9.9 12.5 33.0 6.8 Hire purchase liabilities 185.4 194.7 16.1 29.8 77.0 71.8 Loan notes payable 26.2 26.2 26.2 Nil Nil Nil Trade and other payables 438.4 438.4 426.5 11.9 Nil Nil 1,115.3 1,285.8 505.0 77.2 179.0 524.6 Derivative financial liabilities: Derivatives used for hedging 11.3 11.8 4.4 5.4 2.0 Nil 1,126.6 1,297.6 509.4 82.6 181.0 524.6 As at 30 April 2009 restated Carrying Contractual Less 1-2 2-5 More amount cash flows than 1 year years years than 5 years m m m m m m Non derivative financial liabilities: Unsecured bank loans 149.9 150.0 Nil Nil 150.0 Nil Unsecured bond issues 207.2 214.8 214.8 Nil Nil Nil Redeemable preference shares 5.4 5.4 5.4 Nil Nil Nil Finance lease liabilities 57.7 66.2 9.3 9.2 36.7 11.0 Hire purchase liabilities 172.9 179.5 27.9 26.9 62.9 61.8 Loan notes payable 33.8 33.8 33.8 Nil Nil Nil Trade and other payables 464.8 464.8 445.5 19.3 Nil Nil 1,091.7 1,114.5 736.7 55.4 249.6 72.8 Derivative financial liabilities: Derivatives used for hedging 82.6 90.5 66.1 21.4 3.0 Nil 1,174.3 1,205.0 802.8 76.8 252.6 72.8 The contractual cash flows shown in the above tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows under the relevant financial instruments.
Where the contractual cash flows are variable based on a price, foreign exchange rate, interest rate or index in the future, the contractual cash flows in the above table have been determined with reference to the relevant price, foreign exchange rate, interest rate or index as at the balance sheet date.
In determining the interest element of contractual cash flows in cases where the Group has a choice as to the length of interest calculation periods and the interest rate that applies varies with the period selected, the contractual cash flows have been calculated assuming the Group selects the shortest available interest calculation periods.
Where the holder of an instrument has a choice of when to redeem, the amounts in the above tables are on the assumption the holder redeems at the earliest opportunity.
In the case of bank loans, which are drawn under revolving facilities, the contracted cash flows in respect of interest up to and including the next rollover date are shown.
page 88 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 89 Note 29 Financial instruments continued d Accounting policies The Groups significant accounting policies and measurement bases in respect of financial instruments are disclosed in note 1. e Reclassification of financial assets There have been no reclassifications of financial assets between 1 those measured at cost or amortised cost and 2 those measured at fair value during the year ended 30 April 2010 2009: None.
f Collateral Included within the cash and cash equivalents balance of 375.7m as at 30 April 2010 2009: 277.3m are 65.8m 2009: 78.6m of cash balances that have been pledged as collateral for liabilities as follows: 40.2m 2009: 44.9m has been pledged by the Group as collateral for letters of credit issued by the Bank of Scotland as collateral for the Groups North American insurance provisions.
23.8m 2009: 31.4m has been pledged by the Group as collateral for 23.8m 2009: 31.4m of loan notes that are classified within current liabilities: borrowings.
The cash is held on deposit at Bank of Scotland.
Bank of Scotland has guaranteed the Groups obligations to the holders of the loan notes and to the extent that the Group fails to satisfy its obligations under the loan notes, Bank of Scotland shall use the cash collateral to satisfy such obligations.
1.4m 2009: 1.7m has been pledged by the Group as collateral for liabilities to the vendors of certain businesses that the Group acquired in North America.
0.4m 2009: 0.6m is held in an escrow account in North America in relation to insurance claims.
The fair value of the financial assets pledged as collateral is the same as their carrying value as at 30 April 2010 and 30 April 2009. g Compound financial instruments The Group did not hold any compound financial instruments as at 30 April 2010 2009: Nil.
h Defaults and breaches The Group has not defaulted on any loans payable during the years ended 30 April 2010 and 30 April 2009 and no loans payable are in default as at 30 April 2010 and 30 April 2009.
The Group was in compliance with all bank loan covenants as at 30 April 2010 and as at 30 April 2009. i Income, expense, gains and losses The following items of income, expense, gains and losses in respect of financial instruments excluding commodity hedges, trade and other payables and trade and other receivables have been recognised in the financial statements.
2010 2009 m m Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Nil Nil Interest income and expense Interest income for financial assets and financial liabilities that are not at fair value through profit or loss 10.8 7.5 Interest expense for financial assets and financial liabilities that are not at fair value through profit or loss 58.3 35.3 Available for sale financial assets Losses recognised directly in equity 0.2 0.4 47.7 28.2 Stagecoach Group plc | page 89 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 90 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 29 Financial instruments continued i Income, expense, gains and losses continued The net finance costs reported in the consolidated income statement includes amounts that arise on non-financial liabilities and excludes amounts recognised directly in equity and impairment losses on investments.
The net loss presented on page 89 can be reconciled to the net finance costs reported in the consolidated income statement as follows: 2010 2009 Note m m Reconciliation to net finance costs: Net loss presented above 47.7 28.2 Unwinding of discount on provisions 3.
3.7 6 3.6 Exclude losses recognised directly in equity 0.2 0.4 Net finance costs reported in consolidated income statement 6 31.4 51.2 31.4 j Hedge accounting A summary of the Groups hedging arrangements is provided in the table below.
Type of hedge Risks hedged by Group Hedging instruments used Fair value hedges Interest rate risks Derivatives interest rate swaps Cash flow hedges Commodity price risk Derivatives commodity swaps Interest rate risks Derivatives interest rate swaps Hedges of net investment in foreign operations Foreign investment risk Foreign currency borrowings Derivatives foreign currency forward contracts Carrying value and fair value of derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are classified on the balance sheet as follows: 2010 2009 m m Non-current assets Interest rate swaps 1.9 Nil Fuel derivative 3.6 0.5 5.5 0.5 Current assets Interest rate swaps 2.8 Nil Fuel derivatives 22.9 Nil Foreign currency derivatives Nil 3.1 25.7 3.1 Current liabilities Interest rate swaps Nil 13.1 Fuel derivatives 4.0 55.1 4.0 68.2 Non-current liabilities Interest rate swaps 1.9 7.9 Fuel derivatives Nil 6.5 Foreign currency derivatives 5.4 Nil 7.3 14.4 Total net carrying value Interest rate swaps 2.8 21.0 Fuel derivatives 22.5 61.1 Foreign currency derivatives 5.4 3.1 19.9 79.0 The fair value of derivative financial instruments is equal to their carrying value, as shown in the above table.
Embedded derivatives In accordance with IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement, all significant contracts to which the Group is a party have been reviewed for embedded derivatives.
There were no embedded derivatives as at 30 April 2010 2009: None which were separately accounted for.
page 90 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 91 Note 29 Financial instruments continued j Hedge accounting continued Cash flow hedges - fuel As noted previously, the Group uses a number of fuel derivatives to hedge the different types of fuel used in each of its divisions.
The majority of the Groups fuel derivatives as at 30 April 2010 cover periods up to 30 April 2011, with the latest period covered by a commodity price risk cash flow hedge being 30 April 2012.
The movements in the fair value of fuel derivatives in the year were as follows: 2010 2009 m m Fuel derivatives Fair value at start of year 61.1 43.7 Changes in fair value during year taken to cash flow hedging reserve 42.6 77.5 Cash paid received during the year 41.0 27.3 Fair value at end of year 22.5 61.1 The fair value of the fuel derivatives split by maturity was as follows: Assets Liabilities m m As at 30 April 2010 Within one year 22.9 4.0 1 to 2 years 3.6 Nil 26.5 4.0 As at 30 April 2009 Within one year Nil 55.1 1 to 2 years 0.5 6.5 0.5 61.6 The fair value of fuel derivatives is further analysed by currency and segment as follows: Fair value Notional quantity of fuel covered by derivatives m Millions of litres As at 30 April 2010 Sterling denominated UK Bus 16.0 240.0 Sterling denominated UK Rail 1.1 47.5 US dollar denominated North America 5.4 79.0 22.5 366.5 As at 30 April 2009 Sterling denominated UK Bus 34.1 211.9 Sterling denominated UK Rail 10.0 95.0 US dollar denominated North America 17.0 62.8 61.1 369.7 Fair value and cash flow hedges - interest As noted previously, the Group uses a number of interest rate derivatives to hedge its exposure to floating interest rates.
In connection with the issue of the Groups 400m 5.75% Bonds in December 2009, the Group adjusted its interest rate management arrangements.
The Groups cash flow interest rate hedges became ineffective and were cancelled, resulting in a one-off exceptional expense and cash outflow of 20.5m during the year ended 30 April 2010.
The Group subsequently entered into a number of interest rate fair value hedges which cover periods up to 16 December 2014.
The movements in the fair value of interest rate derivatives used as hedging instruments in the year were as follows: Cash flow hedges Fair value hedges 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Interest rate derivatives Fair value at start of year 21.0 3.0 Nil Nil Changes in fair value during year taken to cash flow hedging reserve 4.3 19.9 Nil Nil Changes in fair value reflected in carrying value of hedged item Nil Nil 2.6 Nil Cash paid during the year 25.3 1.9 0.2 Nil Fair value at end of year Nil 21.0 2.8 Nil Stagecoach Group plc | page 91 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 29 Financial instruments continued j Hedge accounting continued Fair value and Cash flow hedges - interest continued The fair value of the interest rate derivatives split by maturity was as follows: Cash flow hedges Fair value hedges Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m As at 30 April 2010 Within one year Nil Nil 2.8 Nil 1 to 2 years Nil Nil 1.3 Nil 2 to 3 years Nil Nil Nil 0.4 3 to 4 years Nil Nil Nil 1.5 4 to 5 years Nil Ni 0.6 Nil Nil Nil 4.7 1.9 As at 30 April 2009 Within one year Nil 13.1 Nil Nil 1 to 2 years Nil 4.4 Nil Nil 2 to 3 years Nil 2.7 Nil Nil 3 to 4 years Nil 0.8 Nil Nil Nil 21.0 Nil Nil All of the interest rate derivatives are sterling denominated and are managed and held centrally.
Cash flow hedging reserve Interest rate Fuel The movements in the cash flow hedging reserve were as follows: derivatives derivatives Total m m m Cash flow hedging reserve at 1 May 2008 2.1 26.6 24.5 Changes in fair value during the year taken to cash flow hedging reserve 19.9 77.5 97.4 Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in profit for year 2.4 13.6 11.2 Tax effect of cash flow hedges 4.8 27.1 31.9 Cash flow hedging reserve at 30 April 2009 14.8 37.4 52.2 Changes in fair value during the year taken to cash flow hedging reserve 4.3 42.6 38.3 Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in profit for year 24.8 37.0 61.8 Tax effect of cash flow hedges 5.7 22.3 28.0 Cash flow hedging reserve at 30 April 2010 Nil 19.9 19.9 Cash flow hedging reserve before tax Nil 27.7 27.7 Tax to be charged to income statement in future periods Nil 7.8 7.8 Cash flow hedging reserve after tax Nil 19.9 19.9 During the year ended 30 April 2010, forecast interest payments for which hedge accounting had previously been applied were no longer expected to occur because floating-rate bank loans were repaid following the issue of a fixed-rate corporate bond.
As a result, certain interest rate derivatives ceased to be effective hedging instruments and 20.5m of pre-tax losses previously deferred in the cash flow hedging reserve were immediately reclassified and reported in profit as an exceptional item see note 4.
There have been no other instances during the year ending 30 April 2010 2009: None from a Group perspective where a forecast transaction for which hedge accounting had previously been used was no longer expected to occur.
Hedge of overseas net investments Changes in the Groups hedging of overseas net investments during the year are explained on page 81.
The movements in the fair value of the foreign currency derivative contracts used as a hedging instrument in the year were as follows: 2010 2009 m m Foreign currency derivatives Fair value at start of year 3.1 Nil Changes in fair value during the year 5.4 3.1 Cash received during the year 3.1 Nil Fair value at end of year 5.4 3.1 page 92 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 93 Note 29 Financial instruments continued j Hedge accounting continued Hedge of overseas net investments continued The fair value of the foreign currency derivatives split by maturity was as follows: Assets Liabilities m m As at 30 April 2010 1 to 2 years Nil 5.4 As at 30 April 2009 Within one year 3.1 Nil Note 30 Share capital 2010 2009 m m Authorised ordinary share capital 1,221,428,571 2009: 936,428,571 ordinary shares of 56 57 pence each 12.0 9.2 2010 2009 No.
of shares m Allotted, called-up and fully-paid ordinary shares of 56 57 pence each At beginning of year 719,478,434 7.1 718,145,299 7.0 Allotted to employees and former employees under share option schemes 587,752 1,333,135 0.1 At end of year 720,066,186 7.1 719,478,434 7.1 The balance on the share capital account shown above represents the aggregate nominal value of all ordinary shares in issue.
The Group operates two Employee Share Ownership Trusts: the Stagecoach Group Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust QUEST and the Stagecoach Group Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
Shares held by these trusts are treated as a deduction from equity in the Groups financial statements.
Other assets and liabilities of the trusts are consolidated in the Groups financial statements as if they were assets and liabilities of the Group.
As at 30 April 2010, the QUEST held 333,372 2009: 333,372 ordinary shares in the Company and the EBT held 2,003,075 2009: 4,153,570 ordinary shares in the Company.
The trusts have waived dividends on the shares they hold.
Each holder of B shares has the right to redeem the B shares held on 31 May and 30 November each year.
The Group also now has the right to redeem all of the remaining B shares at any time.
The B shares are entitled to receive a dividend at the rate of 70% of six month LIBOR, payable in arrears on the par value of 63 pence per B shares.
The B shares do not carry any rights to vote at a general meeting.
The B shares that remain in issue are classified as liabilities and the dividends payable on such shares are classified in the consolidated income statement within finance costs Stagecoach Group plc | page 93 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 94 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 31 Share based payments The Group operates an Executive Share Option Scheme, a Save as You Earn Scheme SAYE, a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and an Executive Participation Plan EPP.
The Directors remuneration report on pages 32 to 38 gives further details of each of these arrangements.
As disclosed in note 7, share based payment charges of 8.9m 2009: 4.9m have been recognised in the income statement during the year in relation to the above schemes.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS, the requirements of IFRS 2 have not been applied to equity-settled share based payments that: i were granted on or before 7 November 2002 or: ii were granted after 7 November 2002 but had vested before the date of transition, being 1 May 2004.
Therefore the following disclosures relate only to equity-settled share based payments made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested by 1 May 2004, and to all cash-settled share based payments.
These options became fully vested during the year to 30 April 2008.
LTIP awards are based on notional units.
One notional unit has a value equal to one of the Companys ordinary shares but subject to performance conditions.
LTIP awards are not share options and are valued using a separate simulation model therefore some of the above disclosures are not applicable.
Expected volatility was determined at the date of grant from historic volatility, adjusted for events that were not considered to be reflective of the volatility of the share price going forward.
Executive Share Option Scheme The movements in total executive share options during the year were as follows: Award date At 1 May Exercised At 30 April Exercise Date from which Expiry date 2009 2010 price exercisable 23 July 2002 286,091 286,091 Nil 0.3750 23 July 2005 23 July 2009 26 June 2003 106,235 106,235 Nil 0.6050 26 June 2006 26 June 2010 12 December 2003 254,190 195,426 58,764 0.8075 12 December 2006 12 December 2010 25 June 2004 772,727 271,312 501,415 0.8575 25 June 2007 25 June 2011 10 December 2004 505,660 327,283 178,377 1.1150 10 December 2007 10 December 2011 1,924,903 1,186,347 738,556 In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS, the fair value of these options is not taken into account when determining the share based payment charge as the options were granted before 7 November 2002.
All options were granted for nil consideration.
The mid-market price for the ordinary shares at 30 April 2010 was 1.97 2009: 1.31.
The Companys ordinary shares traded in the range of 1.16 to 1.99 2009: 1.04 to 3.28 during the year to that date.
As share options are exercised continuously throughout the year, the average share price during the year of 1.57 2009: 2.02 is considered representative of the weighted average share price at the date of exercise.
page 94 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 95 Note 31 Share based payments continued Save as You Earn Scheme One issue from the SAYE scheme was in operation during the year as follows: Issue Option grant date Savings contract start date Exercise price Date from which exercisable Expiry date E 1 September 2008 1 October 2008 10251.775p 1 October 2011 31 March 2012 The expiry date of any individual SAYE option can be extended to be six months following the date of payment of the final amount due under the related savings account but may be no later than six months after the applicable exercisable date shown above.
The changes in the number of participating employees and options over ordinary shares were as follows: Issue D Issue E Number of Ordinary Number of Ordinary employees shares under option employees shares under option Beginning of year 349 909,097 5,815 8,188,024 Options lapsed 53 92,619 974 1,359,028 End of year Nil Nil 4,841 6,828,996 Long Term Incentive Plan Under the LTIP, executives are awarded notional units with a value equal to one of the Companys ordinary shares but subject to performance conditions.
The movements in the LTIP during the year to 30 April 2010 were as follows: Outstanding Awards granted Exercised Lapsed Dividends Outstanding Fair value per LTIP Fair value per LTIP TSR ranking at start of year in year in year in year in year at end of year unit at grant date unit at 30 April 2010 at Vesting date Award date notional units notional units notional units notional units notional units notional units 30 April 2010 29 June 2006 1,663,132 Nil 1,696,532 Nil 33,400 Nil 0.4381 Nil Nil 29 June 2009 & 10 Dec 2009 28 June 2007 1,141,211 Nil 973,575 122,971 60,759 105,424 0.6991 1.9700 49 31 Mar 2010 & 28 June 2010 30 June 2008 1,031,344 Nil Nil 67,331 55,789 1,019,802 1.0830 0.4273 170 30 June 2011 10 Dec 2009 Nil 2,656,296 Nil Nil 94,650 2,750,946 0.4619 1.2233 31 10 Dec 2012 3,835,687 2,656,296 2,670,107 190,302 244,598 3,876,172 The vesting date is generally the third anniversary of the award date, although it may be postponed if it could potentially contravene any securities or transaction rules.
Due to the corporate activity with National Express, in accordance with these rules the Group was restricted both in permitting awards from vesting and from making new awards while such activity was ongoing.
When that activity formally ceased on 29 October 2009, the Committee decided that vesting of the awards granted on 29 June 2006 should be further delayed until after the Groups interim results had been announced on 9 December 2009.
The LTIP awards granted to Executive Directors and certain senior managers on 28 June 2007 would in the normal course of events be due to vest on 28 June 2010.
The Remuneration Committee however considered it appropriate for the Executive Directors and certain others to bring forward the vesting date of the award to 31 March 2010, so as to permit vesting within the 2009 10 tax year.
To ensure that Executive Directors and senior managers do not receive additional remuneration solely as a result of the early vesting, there will be a re-testing of the awards performance condition on the original due vesting date, and the Remuneration Committee will consider whether adjustments should be made if vesting on 28 June 2010 would have delivered a lower or different amount.
TSR ranking is based on the Groups TSR ranking in the FTSE 250 whereby 1 is top and 250 is bottom of the comparator group.
The TSR ranking is calculated by independent advisors.
Executive Participation Plan Under the EPP, executives and senior managers sacrifice part of their actual annual cash bonus and are awarded deferred shares with an initial market value approximately equal to the amount of bonus foregone.
The movements in EPP notional units during the year were as follows: Outstanding Awards granted Exercised Lapsed Dividends Outstanding Expected total Closing at start of year in year in year in year in year at end of year value of award at share price on Award date notional units notional units notional units notional units notional units notional units Vesting date time of grant date of grant 30 June 2006 1,051,845 Nil 1,065,755 Nil 13,910 Nil 30 June 2009 1,305,511 1.1525 & 10 Dec 2009 28 June 2007 899,393 Nil 462,146 5,512 44,375 476,110 8 Mar 2010 1,775,639 1.8075 & 28 June 2010 26 June 2008 888,964 Nil 23,999 10,030 54,343 909,278 26 June 2011 2,411,107 2.6825 29 June 2009 Nil 1,459,932 Nil 25,592 90,381 1,524,721 29 June 2012 1,819,440 1.2700 10 Dec 2009 Nil 974,940 Nil Nil 34,687 1,009,627 10 Dec 2012 1,538,943 1.6060 2,840,202 2,434,872 1,551,900 41,134 237,696 3,919,736 The vesting date is generally the third anniversary of the award date, although the Committee has reserved the right to postpone the vesting date if it considers that vesting could potentially contravene any securities or transaction rules.
Due to the corporate activity with National Express, in accordance with these rules the Group was restricted both in permitting awards from vesting and from making new awards for the Executive Directors and certain senior managers while such activity was ongoing.
When that activity formally ceased on 29 October 2009, the Committee confirmed that vesting of the awards granted on 29 June 2006 should be further delayed until after the Groups interim results had been announced on 9 December 2009.
The awards granted on 28 June 2007 would in the normal course of events be due to vest on 28 June 2010.
In light of the approach adopted for the 2008-09 bonus award to Executive Directors and senior managers, which was awarded wholly in deferred shares under the EPP, the Remuneration Committee considered it appropriate to bring forward the vesting date of the 2007 EPP Award to permit vesting within the 2009 10 tax year for those affected individuals, subject to the requirement to retain a number of released EPP shares to the original due vesting date 28 June 2010.
The closing share price on the vesting date of 8 March 2010 was 1.7820.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 95 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 32 Reserves 2010 2009 m m Share premium account 9.8 9.5 Retained earnings 433.5 374.9 Capital redemption reserve 415.6 413.5 Own shares 13.3 13.9 Translation reserve 7.1 1.1 Available for sale reserve Nil 0.2 Cash flow hedging reserve 19.9 52.2 A reconciliation of the movements in the above reserves is shown in the Consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 44.
The balance of the share premium account represents the amounts received in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary shares offset by issue costs, bonus issues of shares and any transfer between reserves.
The balance held in the retained earnings reserve is the accumulated retained profits of the Group.
The capital redemption reserve represents the cumulative par value of all shares bought back and cancelled.
Cumulative goodwill of 113.8m 2009: 113.8m has been written off against reserves in periods prior to 1 May 1998 in accordance with the UK accounting standards then in force and such goodwill will remain eliminated against reserves.
Details of own shares held are given in note 30.
The own shares reserve represents the cumulative cost of shares in Stagecoach Group plc purchased in the market and held by the Groups two Employee Share Ownership Trusts offset by cumulative sales proceeds.
The translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translations of the financial statements of foreign operations.
It is also used to record the effect of hedging net investments in foreign operations.
The available for sale reserve records the changes in fair value on available for sale investments.
On disposal, the cumulative changes in fair value are recycled to the income statement.
The cash flow hedging reserve records the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge.
The cumulative gain or loss is recycled to the income statement to match the recognition of the hedged item through the income statement.
Note 33 Consolidated cash flows a Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated by operations 2010 2009 m m Operating profit of Group companies 156.2 172.2 Depreciation 77.2 72.1 Loss on disposal of plant and equipment 2.0 2.0 Intangible asset expenses 6.0 8.3 Impairment of plant and equipment 14.7 0.2 Equity-settled share based payment expense 6.3 3.1 Operating cashflows before working capital movements 262.4 257.9 Increase in inventories 1.9 Nil Decrease increase in receivables 0.5 25.9 Decrease increase in payables 7.4 63.9 Decrease increase in provisions 1.9 5.7 Differences between employer pension contributions and amounts recognised in the income statement 17.2 32.0 Cash generated by operations 234.5 269.6 b Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment In the cash flow statement, proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment comprise: 2010 2009 m m Net book values 58.7 18.1 Loss on disposal of plant and equipment 2.0 2.0 Gain on disposal of properties 4.3 Nil Value of property, plant and equipment traded in 3.0 3.3 Movement in receivables and deposits for proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 5.0 Nil Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 53.0 12.8 page 96 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 97 Note 33 Consolidated cash flows continued c Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2010 2009 m m Increase in cash 99.3 7.5 Cash inflow from movement in borrowings 3.9 126.4 103.2 133.9 New hire purchase and finance leases 65.7 88.6 Debt of acquired subsidiaries 0.4 6.8 Foreign exchange movements 7.1 58.3 Other movements 0.8 0.6 Decrease increase in net debt 43.4 20.4 Opening net debt as defined in note 38 340.1 319.7 Closing net debt as defined in note 38 296.7 340.1 d Analysis of net debt For the purpose of this note, net debt is as defined in note 38.
The analysis below further shows the other items classified as net borrowings in the consolidated balance sheet.
New hire Foreign purchase exchange Other Opening Cashflows finance leases Acquisitions movements movements Closing m m m m m m m Cash 198.7 112.1 Nil Nil 0.9 Nil 309.9 Cash collateral 78.6 12.8 Nil Nil Nil Nil 65.8 Hire purchase and finance lease obligations 230.6 55.1 65.7 0.4 1.1 Nil 240.5 Bank loans and loan stock 183.7 161.9 Nil Nil 3.9 0.5 26.2 Bonds 197.7 215.2 Nil Nil 10.8 0.3 402.4 Preference shares 5.4 2.1 Nil Nil Nil Nil 3.3 Net debt 340.1 103.2 65.7 0.4 7.1 0.8 296.7 Accrued interest on bonds and preference shares 7.9 15.9 Nil Nil 0.5 17.1 8.6 Effect of fair value hedges on carrying value of borrowings Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 1.3 1.3 Unamortised gain on early settlement of interest rate swaps 1.6 Nil Nil Nil Nil 1.6 Nil Foreign exchange derivatives not included in borrowings in balance sheet Nil Nil Nil Nil 5.4 Nil 5.4 Net borrowings IFRS 349.6 119.1 65.7 0.4 13.0 17.6 301.2 The cash amounts shown above include 169.0m on 3 month deposit maturing by June 2010, 32.0m deposited on 30 day notice accounts and 10.4m deposited in a 7 day notice account 2009: 10.0m on six month deposit maturing by July 2009, 40.0m on three month deposit maturing by June 2009 and 3.0m on two month deposit maturing by May 2009.
e Restricted cash The cash collateral balance as at 30 April 2010 of 65.8m 2009: 78.6m comprises balances held in respect of insurance provision letters of credit of 40.2m 2009: 44.9m, balances held in trust in respect of loan notes of 23.8m 2009: 31.4m and North America restricted cash balances of 1.8m 2009: 2.3m.
In addition, cash includes train operating company cash of 182.8m 2009: 142.3m.
Under the terms of the franchise agreements, train operating companies can only distribute cash out of retained earnings, and only to the extent they do not breach franchise liquidity ratios.
f Non cash transactions The principal non cash transactions were the acquisition of property, plant and equipment using new hire purchase and finance leases.
During the year, the Group entered into hire purchase and finance lease arrangements in respect of new assets with a total capital value at inception of the contracts of 62.3m 2009: 92.2m.
After taking account of deposits paid up front and other financing transactions of 3.6m 2009: 20.3m, new hire purchase and finance lease liabilities of 69.3m 2009: 108.9m were recognised.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 97 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 34 Contingencies Contingent liabilities i At 30 April 2010, the following bonds and guarantees were in place relating to the Groups rail operations: 2010 2009 m m Performance bonds backed by bank facilities Stagecoach South Western Trains 59.9 55.7 East Midlands Trains 20.8 20.2 Season ticket bonds backed by bank facilities and or insurance arrangements Stagecoach South Western Trains 45.2 43.0 East Midlands Trains 5.0 4.6 Intercompany loan facilities and guarantees Stagecoach South Western Trains 25.0 25.0 East Midlands Trains 35.0 35.0 These contingent liabilities are not expected to crystallise, except that the intercompany loan facilities will be used from time to time but eliminate on consolidation.
ii The Group and its joint venture, Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited, have, in the normal course of business, entered into a number of long-term supply contracts.
The most significant of these relate to track, station and depot access facilities, together with new train lease and maintenance arrangements.
iii Under UK Rail franchise agreements, the Group and its joint venture, Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited, have agreed with the DfT annual amounts receivable or payable in respect of the operation of rail franchises for future periods.
Under these agreements, there is a requirement to comply with a number of obligations.
Failure to comply with these obligations would be a breach of the relevant franchise.
The Group assessed whether a provision for onerous contracts is required in respect of its rail franchises.
The Group has discounted the expected future cash flows related to its rail franchises to determine whether it is probable that the benefits to be derived by the Group from the franchises will be lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting its obligations under the franchises.
Estimates of cash flows are consistent with managements plans and forecasts.
The Group has determined that no provision is necessary.
The estimation of future cash flows and the discount rate involves a significant degree of judgment.
Actual results can differ from those assumed and there can be no absolute assurance that the assumptions used will hold true.
Under certain circumstances following a breach by the Group of one or more of its rail franchise agreements, the DfT has the right to terminate all of the franchises operated by the Group.
Where the Group has defaulted on one franchise, the DfT has cross-default rights that might enable it but not require it to terminate all of the franchises.
The financial effect on the Group of a termination of one or more franchises would depend on which, if any, of the Groups contingent liabilities that the DfT sought to call.
As at 30 April 2010, the capital at risk of the Group in this respect was: South Western East Midlands Trains Trains Total m m m Actual liabilities Net intra-group amounts payable to train operators 45.1 1.7 46.8 Contingent liabilities Season ticket bonds 45.2 5.0 50.2 Performance bonds 59.9 20.8 80.7 Parent company guarantees to suppliers Nil 9.5 9.5 Undrawn committed loan facilities 25.0 35.0 60.0 Capital at risk as at 30 April 2010 175.2 72.0 247.2 Cash Cash in train operating companies 145.7 37.1 182.8 Pro forma impact on net debt 320.9 109.1 430.0 We consider the likelihood of the contingent liabilities crystallising as being low.
The train operating companies liabilities are covered by assets and as such there should be no need to apply season ticket bonds parent company guarantees or undrawn committed loan facilities.
Furthermore, surplus net assets could be realised by the Group.
However, if all of the contingent liabilities had crystallised at 30 April 2010, the Group would have needed to have financed 247.2m 2009: 236.1m and its gross debt would have increased by this amount.
In addition, the cash in the train operating companies would be transferred with the franchises and therefore the net debt of the Group would have increased by 430.0m 2009: 378.4m.
There is no recourse to the Group in respect of any liabilities or contingent liabilities of Virgin Rail Group.
iv The Group and the Company are from time to time party to legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business.
Liabilities have been recognised in the financial statements for the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle obligations arising under such legal actions.
As at 30 April 2010, the accruals in the consolidated financial statements for such claims total 5.4m 2009: 10.1m.
page 98 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 99 Note 35 Guarantees and other financial commitments a Capital commitments 2010 2009 m m Capital commitments are as follows: Contracted for but not provided For delivery in one year 11.1 116.9 b Operating lease commitments The following were the future minimum contractual lease payments due under unexpired operating leases as at 30 April 2010: As at 30 April 2010 Buses & other Land & road transportation Trains & Plant & buildings equipment rolling stock machinery Total m m m m m Lease payments due in respect of: Year ending 30 April 2011 9.5 6.2 128.5 5.1 149.3 Year ending 30 April 2012 8.1 5.5 131.1 4.1 148.8 Year ending 30 April 2013 7.4 3.9 133.6 2.4 147.3 Year ending 30 April 2014 5.7 3.7 96.8 0.2 106.4 Year ending 30 April 2015 2.7 3.0 Nil Nil 5.7 1 May 2015 and thereafter 20.1 0.8 Nil Nil 20.9 53.5 23.1 490.0 11.8 578.4 All operating lease commitments associated with UK Rail franchises are assumed to terminate in line with the expected franchise end.
The franchiseend for the purpose of determining the above commitments as at 30 April 2010 is the earlier date of which each franchise could end if the Group failed to meet specified performance targets.
The amounts shown above do not include Network Rail charges, which are shown separately in note 35 c. The following were the future minimum contractual lease payments due under unexpired operating leases as at 30 April 2009: As at 30 April 2009 Buses & other Land & road transportation Trains & Plant & buildings equipment rolling stock machinery Total m m m m m Lease payments due in respect of: Year ending 30 April 2010 8.4 3.9 134.7 4.5 151.5 Year ending 30 April 2011 7.6 3.2 134.7 3.7 149.2 Year ending 30 April 2012 6.2 2.7 134.7 3.2 146.8 Year ending 30 April 2013 5.9 1.4 134.7 1.4 143.4 Year ending 30 April 2014 4.5 1.2 96.0 Nil 101.7 1 May 2014 and thereafter 15.7 0.9 Nil Nil 16.6 48.3 13.3 634.8 12.8 709.2 c Network Rail charges The Groups UK Rail franchises have contracts with Network Rail for access to the railway infrastructure track, stations and depots until the expected end of the franchises.
Commitments for payments under these contracts as at 30 April 2010 are as shown below.
2010 m Lease payments due in respect of: Year ending 30 April 2011 149.1 Year ending 30 April 2012 144.2 Year ending 30 April 2013 148.7 Year ending 30 April 2014 136.7 Year ending 30 April 2015 Nil 1 May 2015 and thereafter Nil 578.7 Stagecoach Group plc | page 99 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 100 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 35 Guarantees and other financial commitments continued c Network Rail charges continued Commitments for payments under these contracts as at 30 April 2009 were as follows: 2009 m Lease payments due in respect of: Year ending 30 April 2010 145.2 Year ending 30 April 2011 144.4 Year ending 30 April 2012 145.2 Year ending 30 April 2013 166.8 Year ending 30 April 2014 63.2 1 May 2014 and thereafter 0.5 665.3 d Joint ventures Our share of commitments and contingent liabilities in joint ventures shown below are based on the latest statutory financial statements of the relevant companies: 2010 2009 m m Annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases 47.6 52.1 Franchise performance bonds 10.3 10.3 Season ticket bonds 1.9 1.8 The arrangements pursuant to which a performance bond is issued in respect of Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited, a joint venture, requires that the consolidated net assets under UK GAAP and applying its own accounting policies of Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited are no less than 22.5m 2009: 22.5m.
This could restrict Virgin Rail Group Holdings ability to make distributions to the Group.
Note 36 Related party transactions Details of major related party transactions during the year ended 30 April 2010 are provided below, except for those relating to the remuneration of the Directors and management.
i Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited - Non-Executive Directors Two of the Groups managers are non-executive directors of Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited.
During the year ended 30 April 2010, the Group earned fees of 60,000 2009: 60,000 from Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited in this regard.
ii West Coast Trains Limited West Coast Trains Limited is a subsidiary of Virgin Rail Group.
For the year ended 30 April 2010, East Midlands Trains had purchases totalling 0.8m 2009: 0.6m and sales totalling 0.5m 2009: 0.8m from to West Coast Trains Limited.
East Midlands Trains has a payable of 27,000 2009: receivable 400,000 owed to West Coast Trains Limited as at 30 April 2010. iii Noble Grossart Limited Ewan Brown Non-Executive Director is a former executive director and current non-executive director of Noble Grossart Limited that provided advisory services to the Group during the year.
Total fees payable to Noble Grossart Limited in respect of the year ended 30 April 2010 amounted to 13,333 2009: 20,000.
At 30 April 2010, Noble Grossart Investments Limited, a subsidiary of Noble Grossart Limited, held 4,084,999 2009: 4,084,999 ordinary shares in the Company, representing 0.6% 2009: 0.6% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
iv Alexander Dennis Limited Brian Souter Chief Executive and Ann Gloag Non-Executive Director collectively hold 37.9% 30 April 2009: 37.9% of the shares and voting rights in Alexander Dennis Limited.
Noble Grossart Investments Limited see iii above controls a further 28.4% 30 April 2009: 28.4% of the shares and voting rights of Alexander Dennis Limited.
None of Brian Souter, Ann Gloag or Ewan Brown is a director of Alexander Dennis Limited nor do they have any involvement in the management of Alexander Dennis Limited.
Furthermore, they do not participate in deciding on and negotiating the terms and conditions of transactions between the Group and Alexander Dennis Limited.
For the year ended 30 April 2010, the Group purchased 48.9m 2009: 61.1m of vehicles from Alexander Dennis Limited and 3.4m 2009: 2.8m of spare parts and other services.
As at 30 April 2010, the Group had 0.4m 2009: 0.3m payable to Alexander Dennis Limited.
v Pension Schemes Details of contributions made to pension schemes are contained in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
page 100 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 BACK:72218 StCchV9 BACK 29 6 10 07:40 Page 101 Note 36 Related party transactions continued vi Robert Walters plc Martin Griffiths Finance Director became a non-executive director of Robert Walters plc in July 2006 and received remuneration of 56,120 2009: 47,200 in respect of his services for the year ended 30 April 2010.
Martin Griffiths holds 20,000 2009: 12,000 shares in Robert Walters plc which represents 0.03% 2009: 0.01% of the issued share capital.
During the year ended 30 April 2010, the Group paid Robert Walters plc Nil 2009: 9,360 for recruitment services.
vii Troy Income & Growth Trust plc Martin Griffiths Finance Director became a non-executive director of Troy Income & Growth Trust plc formerly Glasgow Income Trust plc on 8 November 2007 and received 14,000 2009: 14,000 in respect of his services for the year ended 30 April 2010.
He holds 50,000 2009: 28,000 shares in Troy Income & Growth Trust plc representing 0.04% 2009: 0.02% of the issued share capital.
viii Loan to New York Splash Tours LLC A net interest bearing long-term loan of 3.1m 2009: 2.7m was outstanding from a joint venture, New York Splash Tours LLC, as at 30 April 2010. ix Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited A non interest bearing loan of 1.7m 2009: Nil was due to Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited as at 30 April 2010.
The Group received 14.9m 2009: 14.0m in the year ended 30 April 2010 in respect of the operation of services subcontracted by Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited.
As at 30 April 2010, the Group had a net 3.6m 2009: 3.7m receivable from Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited, excluding the loan referred to above.
x Argent Energy Group Limited Brian Souter Chief Executive and Ann Gloag Non-Executive Director collectively hold 39.3% 30 April 2009: Nil of the shares and voting rights in Argent Energy Group Limited.
Neither Brian Souter nor Ann Gloag is a director of Argent Energy Group Limited nor do they have any involvement in the management of Argent Energy Group.
Furthermore, they do not participate in deciding on and negotiating the terms and conditions of transactions between the Group and Argent Energy Group.
For the year ended 30 April 2010, the Group purchased 0.4m 2009: 0.2m of biofuel from Argent Energy Group.
As at 30 April 2010, the Group had Nil 2009: 13,000 payable to Argent Energy Group.
Note 37 Post balance sheet events Holders of 723,770 redeemable B preference shares elected to have these shares redeemed on 31 May 2010 leaving 4,463,285 redeemable B preference shares in issue.
Note 38 Definitions Like-for-like amounts are derived, on a constant currency basis, by comparing the relevant year-to-date amount with the equivalent prior year period for those business and individual operating units that have been part of the Group throughout both periods.
Operating profit for a particular business unit or division within the Group refers to profit before net finance income costs, taxation, intangible asset expenses, exceptional items and restructuring costs.
Operating margin for a particular business unit or division within the Group means operating profit as a percentage of revenue.
Exceptional items means items which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate need to be disclosed by virtue of their nature, size or incidence in order to allow a proper understanding of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
Gross debt is borrowings as reported on the consolidated balance sheet, adjusted to exclude accrued interest, deferred gains on derivatives and the effect of air value hedges on the carrying value of borrowings, and to include the effect of foreign exchange derivatives that synthetically convert an element of borrowings from one currency to another.
Net debt or net funds is the net of cash and gross debt.
