Yule Catto & Co plc 84 Annual report and accounts 2010 Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of the 13.
That the Company be unconditionally and generally Company will be held at the Manor of Groves Hotel, High Wych, authorised for the purpose of Section 701 of the Companies Sawbridgeworth, Hertfordshire, CM21 0JU on Thursday 12 May Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases as defined 2011 at 2.30 pm for the following purposes: in Section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company provided that: Resolutions 12, 13 and 14 will be proposed as special resolutions.
All other resolutions will be proposed as a the maximum number of shares which may be purchased ordinary resolutions.
is 33,988,076: Ordinary business b the minimum price which may be paid for each share 1.
To receive and adopt the report of the Directors and audited is 10p exclusive of expenses : financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010. c the maximum price which may be paid for a share is 2.
To consider the recommendation of the Directors as an amount equal to 105% of the average of the closing to a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 middle market quotations of the Companys ordinary and if thought fit to declare a final dividend accordingly.
shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately 3.
To approve the report of the Board on Directors preceding the day on which such share is contracted remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2010. to be purchased exclusive of expenses : and 4.
To re-elect as a director the Hon.
d this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, 5.
To re-elect as a director Dato Lee Hau Hian.
15 months after the passing of this Resolution except in relation to the purchase of shares the contract for which 6.
To re-elect as a director Dr A A Dobbie.
was concluded before the expiry of such authority and which might be executed wholly or partly after such 7.
To re-elect as a director Mr J K Maiden.
expiry unless such authority is renewed prior to such time.
To re-elect as a director Mr D C Blackwood.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General 9.
To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company to Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General notice.
Meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
R Atkinson Secretary Special business 9 March 2011 11.
To resolve that the authority conferred on the Directors by Article 5.2 of the Companys Articles of Association be Registered office: renewed for the period ending at the end of the Annual Temple Fields General Meeting in 2012 or on 30 June 2012, whichever Central Road is the earlier, and for such period the Section 551 Amount Harlow shall be 11,329,358.
Such authority shall be in substitution Essex for all previous authorities pursuant to Section 551 of the CM20 2BH Companies Act 2006.
Registered in England and Wales number 98381 12.
To resolve that subject to the passing of Resolution 11 above, the power conferred on the Directors by Article 5.3 of the Companys Articles be renewed for the period referred to in such Resolution and for such period the Section 561 Amount shall be 1,699,403.
Such authority shall be in substitution for all previous powers pursuant to Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006.
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Yule Catto & Co plc Annual report and accounts 2010 85 Financial highlights 01 Group overview 02 Yule Catto a world class business 03 Chairmans statement 04 Notes to the Notice of meeting Note 2.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the The Group delivered a 19% 1.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to improvement in underlying the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed profit before tax and achieved is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through Chief Executives report 06 shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder other means.
Polymer Chemicals 06 a further substantial reduction of the Company.
A proxy form which may be used to make such Pharma Chemicals 10 10.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
Impact Chemicals 10 in its debt over the course or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Financial review 12 2.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for Corporate Social Responsibility report 14 of the year.
must be received by post or during normal business hours only any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, by hand at Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY or at the electronic address It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take provided in the proxy form, in each case no later than 48 hours before or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action Directors and advisers 22 3.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraph 9 below will Report of the directors 23 means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting Corporate governance 26 CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
Directors remuneration report 30 voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections Statement of directors responsibilities 34 of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST 4.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated system and timings.
under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between 11.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a Securities Regulations 2001. proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she 12.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more Independent auditors report 35 may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its Consolidated income statement 36 the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 37 to the same shares.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 37 5.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the Consolidated balance sheet 38 appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above does not apply 13.
Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs the threshold requirements set out in that Section have the right to Consolidated cash flow statement 39 can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
require the company to publish on a website a statement setting Notes to the consolidated financial statements 40 out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts 6.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or votes they may cast, Shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company at close of business on ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company Independent auditors report 73 Tuesday 10 May 2011 or, in the event of any adjournment, on the ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual Company balance sheet 74 date which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting.
accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 Notes to the Company financial statements 75 Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its attend and vote at the meeting.
expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on 7.
The Companys capital consists of 339,880,769 ordinary shares a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must with voting rights.
forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
C REST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by includes any statement that the Company has been required under using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures 82 Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those Five year financial summary 83 CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should Notice of meeting 84 14.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the 9.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, of the company or the good order of the meeting that the question and must contain the information required for such instruction, as be answered.
described in the CREST Manual available via www.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the 15.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be www.
transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 3RA50 by the latest time s for the receipt of proxy appointments specified in Designed and produced by The College www.
com Other information Company financial statements Group financial statements Governance Business review Introduction Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2010 Being part of Yule Catto & Co plc Temple Fields Harlow Essex CM20 2BH all our lives UK T 44 0 1279 442 791 F 44 0 1279 641 360 www.
com Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report For the year ended 31 December 2010
