Notes to the Parent company financial statements 1 Parent company accounting policies Tangible fixed assets Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to write off the cost of Accounting basis tangible fixed assets over their estimated useful life.
The tangible fixed The Parent company financial statements are prepared under the assets comprise plant and machinery and computer software which historical cost convention in accordance with the Companies Act are depreciated over a period of 3 to 28 years.
Impairment reviews are 2006 and applicable UK accounting standards.
As permitted by undertaken if there are indications that the carrying values may not Section 408 2 of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys profit be recoverable.
and loss account and statement of total recognised gains and losses are not presented in these financial statements.
The Tate & Lyle PLC Investments consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March Unless they are financed by foreign currency borrowings and 2010 contain a consolidated statement of cash flows.
Consequently designated as a fair value hedging relationship, investments in the Company has taken the exemption available in FRS1 Revised subsidiaries and associates are shown at cost less amounts written 1996 Cash flow statements, and has not presented its own cash off where there is a permanent diminution in value.
shares in overseas undertakings that are financed by foreign currency borrowings and designated as a fair value hedging relationship are New UK standards and interpretations adopted retranslated into pounds sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the The following new standards, amendments and interpretations were balance sheet date and the resulting exchange gains and losses are adopted by the Company in the year.
Adoption had no effect on the recognised in the profit and loss account.
Exchange gains and losses results, financial position of the Company or its disclosures.
on the related foreign currency borrowings are also recognised in the profit and loss account in accordance with FRS23 The Effects of Amendment to FRS8 Related Party Disclosures Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
Amendment to FRS20 Share-based Payment Vesting conditions and cancellations An undertaking is regarded as a subsidiary undertaking if the UITF Abstract 46 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Company has control over its operating and financial policies.
Foreign Operation An undertaking is regarded as an associate if the Company holds a participating interest and has significant influence, but not control, over New UK standards and interpretations not adopted its operating and financial policies.
Significant influence generally exists The following amendments to Financial Reporting Standards have where the Company holds more than 20% and less than 50% of the been issued but have not been adopted yet by the Company: shareholders voting rights.
Amendment to FRS25 Financial Instruments: Presentation Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation All loans and receivables to and from subsidiary undertakings are Amendment to FRS26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and shown at cost less amounts written off where deemed unrecoverable.
Measurement Eligible hedged items Improvements to Financial Reporting Standards Leases Amendments to FRS29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Operating lease costs are charged to profit as incurred.
Amendment to FRS20 Share-based payment Group cashsettled share-based payment transactions Research and development All expenditure on research and development is charged to profit The amendments to FRS25, FRS26 and the improvements to as incurred.
Financial Reporting Standards are effective for the Company in its accounting period beginning on 1 April 2010.
The adoption of these amendments is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys profit for the year or equity.
The adoptions may affect disclosures in the Companys financial statements.
