Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Group accounting policies continued Government grants A government grant is recognised when there is reasonable assurance Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and that any conditions attached to the grant will be satisfied and the changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity grants will be received.
A government grant is recognised at its fair immediately through the statement of comprehensive income.
value and is accounted for as a deduction against the cost concerned or within other income over the periods necessary to match the grants Where the actuarial valuation of a scheme demonstrates that the with the related costs that they are intended to compensate.
scheme is in surplus, the recognised asset is limited to that for which the Group expects to benefit in future by refunds or a reduction Dividend distribution in contribution.
Final dividend distributions to the Companys equity holders are recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a shareholders, while interim dividend distributions are recognised in the mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further period in which the dividends are declared and paid.
Where a scrip payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The alternative is offered and taken, the distribution is effected through an contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when issue of bonus shares from the share premium account.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments Segment reporting is available.
As disclosed in Note 1 and Note 4, the Group has adopted IFRS b Other post-employment obligations 8 Operating Segments.
IFRS 8 requires that entities adopt the Some Group companies provide post-employment healthcare management approach to identifying reportable operating segments benefits to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually and reporting the financial performance of those segments.
Segment conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement information is reported for those components for which separate age and the completion of a minimum service period.
The expected financial information is available and which management uses costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment internally for allocating resources and assessing performance.
using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience Discontinued operations and assets held for sale adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or Business components that represent separate major lines of business credited to equity immediately.
These obligations are valued annually or geographical areas of operations are recognised as discontinued if by independent qualified actuaries.
the operations have been disposed of, are being abandoned or meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
c Share-based compensation The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based Assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their compensation plans.
The fair value of employee services received carrying amount will be principally recovered through a sale in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an transaction rather than through continuing use.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable, expected to is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, be completed within one year and the asset or disposal group is excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Operations held example, earnings targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are for sale are held at the lower of their carrying amount on the date they included in assumptions about the number of options that are are classified as held for sale and fair value less costs to sell.
At each balance sheet date, for options granted with non-market vesting conditions, the Group 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to In order to prepare these consolidated financial statements become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original in accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 2, estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding management has used estimates and judgements to establish the adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly amounts at which certain items are recorded.
Critical accounting attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share estimates and judgements are those that have the greatest impact premium when the options are exercised.
on the financial statements and require the most difficult, subjective and complex judgements about matters that are inherently uncertain.
Research and development Estimates are based on factors including historical experience Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement in the and expectations of future events that management believe to be year in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is recognised reasonable.
However, given the judgemental nature of such estimates, in the income statement in the year in which it is incurred unless it is actual results could be different from the assumptions used.
The probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group from the critical accounting estimates and judgements are set out below.
asset being developed, the cost of the asset can be reliably measured and technical feasibility can be demonstrated and there is an intention Impairment of assets to complete and utilise the asset.
When the recognition criteria are Asset impairments have the potential to significantly impact income.
met, development costs are capitalised as an intangible asset and are In order to determine whether impairments are required the Group amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life from estimates the recoverable amount of the asset.
This calculation is the time the asset is available for use.
usually based on projecting future cash flows over a five-year period and using a terminal value to incorporate expectations of growth Borrowing costs thereafter.
A discount factor is applied to obtain a current value value Borrowing costs directly arising from the purchase, construction or in use.
The fair value less costs to sell of an asset is used if this production of an asset are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
results in an amount in excess of value in use.
Exceptional items Estimated future cash flows for impairment calculations are based on Exceptional items comprise items of income and expense, including managements expectations of future volumes and margins based tax items, that are material in amount and unlikely to recur and which on plans and best estimates of the productivity of the assets in their merit separate disclosure in order to provide an understanding of the current condition.
Future cash flows therefore exclude benefits from Groups underlying financial performance.
Examples of events giving major expansion projects requiring future capital expenditure where rise to the disclosure of material items of income and expense as that expenditure has not been approved at the balance sheet date.
exceptional items include, but are not limited to, impairment events, disposals of operations or individual assets, litigation claims by or Future cash flows are discounted using a discount rate based on against the Group and the restructuring of components of the Groups the Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted if appropriate operations.
See Note 7 for further details.
for circumstances specific to the asset being tested.
The weighted average cost of capital is impacted by estimates of interest rates, equity returns and market and country-related risks.
The Groups weighted average cost of capital is reviewed on an annual basis.
68 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Taxation The Group operates in a large number of tax jurisdictions around the If the cash flow or discount rate assumptions were to change because world.
Tax regulations generally are complex and in some jurisdictions of market conditions, the level of impairment could be different and agreeing tax liabilities with local tax authorities can take several years.
could result in the impairment of property, plant and equipment being Consequently, at the balance sheet date, tax liabilities and assets are increased or reversed, in part or in full, at a future date.
based on managements best estimate of the future amounts that will be settled.
While the Group aims to ensure that the estimates Further details are set out in Notes 15 and 16. recorded are accurate, the actual amounts could be different from those expected.
Retirement benefits Among the range of retirement benefits provided in businesses around Deferred tax assets mainly represent asset impairments and the Group are a number of defined benefit pension plans and an retirement benefit obligations that the Group expects to recover unfunded healthcare benefit scheme in the US.
The amounts recorded at some time in the future and by their nature the amounts in the financial statements for both of these types of arrangement are recorded are therefore dependent on managements judgement based on a number of assumptions, changes to which could have a about future events.
material impact on the reported amounts.
Further details are set out in Notes 11 and 29.
Any net deficit or surplus arising on defined benefit plans and the liability under the healthcare plan is shown in the statement of financial position.
The amount recorded is the difference between plan assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
Plan assets are based on market value at that date.
Plan liabilities, including healthcare liabilities, are based on actuarial estimates of the present value of future pension or other benefits that will be payable to members.
The most sensitive assumptions involved in calculating the expected liabilities are mortality rates and the discount rate used to calculate the present value.
If the mortality rates assumption changed, a one year increase to longevity at age 65 would increase the liability by 65 million.
The main financial assumption is the real discount rate, being the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
If this assumption increased by 0.1%, the gross plan liabilities would decrease by approximately 19 million.
The income statement generally comprises a regular charge to operating profit and a finance charge, which represents the net of expected income from plan assets and an interest charge on plan liabilities.
These calculations are based on expected outcomes at the start of the financial year.
The income statement is most sensitive to changes in expected returns from plan assets and the discount rate used to calculate the interest charge on plan liabilities.
A 0.1% increase in the assumption of the real discount rate would increase the finance expense by approximately 0.1 million.
Full details of these assumptions, which are based on advice from the Groups actuaries, are set out in Note 30.
Provisions The Group recognises a provision where a legal or constructive obligation exists at the balance sheet date and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
Where appropriate, future cash outflows that are expected to arise over a number of years are discounted to a present value using a relevant discount rate.
At the balance sheet date, provisions included amounts for insurance claims payable by the Groups reinsurance company, legal matters, employee termination and other restructuring costs.
Although provisions are reviewed on a regular basis and adjusted for managements best current estimates, the judgemental nature of these items means that future amounts settled may be different from those provided.
Further details are set out in Note 31.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 69 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
