Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Presentation of financial statements New IFRS standards and interpretations adopted From 1 April 2009 the Group has adopted the following new and General information amended IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations: The principal activities of Tate & Lyle PLC are the development, manufacture and marketing of food and industrial ingredients that IFRS 8 Operating Segments replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
have been made from renewable resources.
The Group operates IFRS 8 takes the management view to determine the operating and more than 45 production facilities and in numerous partnerships and reportable segments, rather than the risks and reward model and the joint ventures throughout Europe, the Americas and South East Asia.
primary and secondary segments required by IAS 14.
The impact of adopting IFRS 8 is stated in Note 4.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled IAS 1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements introduces some in the United Kingdom.
The Company has its primary listing on the terminology changes and changes in presentation and disclosure, in London Stock Exchange.
particular, the introduction of the consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity as a primary statement.
Under IAS 1 Basis of preparation revised, the Group has elected to present two income statements, These consolidated financial statements are presented on the basis a consolidated income statement and a consolidated statement of of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by comprehensive income.
the European Union and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and have been Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures introduces prepared in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Financial disclosures about financial instruments.
The impact of adopting these Services Authority and the Companies Act 2006, as applicable to amendments is included in Note 19. companies reporting under IFRS.
The following amendments and interpretations have not had a material These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in impact on the results or financial position of the Group: accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 2 and under the historical cost convention, except where modified by the IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes revaluation of certain financial instruments and commodities.
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation These consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Vesting sterling, which is the Groups presentational currency.
conditions and cancellations The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS Revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also Amendment to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of Statements Cost of an investment in a subsidiary, jointly applying the Companys accounting policies.
The areas involving controlled entity or associate a higher degree of judgement or complexity and areas where Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements on Puttable financial financial statements are disclosed in Note 3. instruments and obligations arising on liquidation IASBs 2009 annual improvements project The financial information for the year ended 31 March 2009 is derived from the statutory financial statements for that year, except New IFRS standards and interpretations not adopted certain comparative information has been re-presented to conform The following standards, amendments and interpretations are not with the current year presentation.
yet effective and have not been adopted early by the Group: In addition in accordance with IAS 1 revised, the Group has reIFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners presented the following comparative information to conform with IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers current year presentation.
Finance income and finance expense in Amendment to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2009 have been Financial Statements re-presented to disclose 17million of the receipts and payments Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and under interest rate swaps net, as opposed to gross, so as to reflect Measurement Eligible hedged items the economic substance of the underlying derivatives.
The associated Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and cash flows have also been re-presented.
Presentation Presentation on classification of rights issues IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Group cash-settled share-based The Group has also re-presented certain derivatives held for trading payment transactions in the statement of financial position from current assets or liabilities IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments to non-current assets or liabilities based upon contractual maturity Amendment to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures date.
13 million of assets and 15 million of liabilities have been IAS 19 Employee Benefits Prepayments of a minimum re-presented.
There is no overall effect on the Groups profit for the funding requirement year, equity or net increase in cash and cash equivalents from these re-presentations.
The adoption of these standards, amendments and interpretations is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups profit for those There is no overall effect on the Groups income statement, net years or equity.
The adoptions may affect disclosures in the Groups assets or overall cash flows from continuing operations from these financial statements.
The revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations includes the immediate Use of adjusted measures expensing of acquisition-related costs rather than inclusion in goodwill, Tate & Lyle presents adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings and the recognition and measurement at fair value of contingent per share information.
These measures are used by Tate & Lyle consideration at acquisition date with subsequent changes to income.
for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation The adoption of this revised standard may impact the Groups profit arrangements for employees.
The terms adjusted and exceptional for the year and equity.
items are not defined terms under IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other In November 2009, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments companies.
They are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior Classification and Measurement which altered the classification to, GAAP measurements of profit.
The term adjusted refers to the and measurement of financial instruments.
Under the new standard relevant measure being reported, excluding exceptional items and only two possible classifications arise, rather than the four existing amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition of businesses.
classifications currently available under IAS 39, and will result in all A reconciliation of statutory to adjusted information is provided financial assets being valued at amortised cost or fair value through in Note 42. profit and loss.
Financial liabilities are excluded from the scope of the standard.
The standard is not mandatory before 2013 year-ends and is yet to be endorsed by the European Union.
The adoption of this standard may impact the Groups profit, equity and disclosures in the Groups financial statements.
