21 Financial risk factors Management of financial risk The main financial risks faced by the Group are credit risk, liquidity risk, and market risks, which include interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and certain commodity price risks.
The Board regularly reviews these risks and approves written policies covering the use of financial instruments to manage these risks and set overall risk limits.
The Group Finance Director retains the overall responsibility and management of financial risk for the Group.
Most of the Groups financing, interest rate and foreign exchange risk are managed through the Group treasury company, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC, whose operations are controlled by its board.
The treasury company is chaired by the Group Finance Director and has other board members who are independent of the treasury function.
The board of Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC approves policies and procedures setting out permissible funding and hedging instruments, and a system of authorities for the approval of transactions and exposures within the limits approved by the Board of Tate & Lyle PLC.
Group interest rate and currency exposures are concentrated either in the treasury company or in appropriate holding companies through marketrelated transactions with Group subsidiaries.
These positions are managed by the treasury company within its authorised limits.
Commodity price risks are managed through divisional commodity trading functions in the USA and Europe.
These functions are controlled by divisional management who are responsible for ratifying general strategy and overseeing performance on a monthly basis.
Commodity price contracts are categorised as being held either for trading or for hedging price exposures.
Commodity contracts held for trading within the Group are limited, confined only to tightly controlled areas within the sugar and corn pricing areas.
The derivative financial instruments approved by the Board of Tate & Lyle PLC to manage financial risks include swaps, both interest rate and currency, swaptions, caps, forward rate agreements, financial and commodity forward contracts and options, and commodity futures.
Market risks Foreign exchange management Tate & Lyle operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risks arising from commercial transactions transaction exposure, and from recognised assets, liabilities and investments in overseas operations translation exposure.
Transaction exposure The Groups policy requires subsidiaries to hedge transactional currency exposures against their functional currency once the transaction is committed or highly probable, mainly through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
The amounts deferred in equity from derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are released to the income statement and offset against the movement in underlying transactions only when the forecast transactions affect the income statement.
Translation exposure The Group manages the foreign exchange exposure to net investments in overseas operations, particularly in the USA and Europe, by maintaining a percentage of net debt in US dollars and euros to mitigate the effect of these risks.
This is achieved by borrowing principally in US dollars and euros, which provide a partial match for the Groups major foreign currency assets.
A weakening of the US dollar and euro against sterling would result in exchange gains on net debt denominated in these currencies which would be offset against the losses on the underlying foreign currency assets.
At the year end, net debt amounting to 814 million 2009 1,231 million was held in the following currencies: net borrowings of US dollars 76% 2009 77%, euro 20% 2009 20%, pounds sterling 7% 2009 3% and net deposits of other currencies 3% 2009 net deposits of 0%.
The Groups interest cost through the income statement is impacted by changes in the relevant exchange rates.
The following table illustrates only the Groups sensitivity to the fluctuation of the major currencies on its financial assets and liabilities, as defined and set out in Note 19: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Income Income statement Equity statement Equity m m m m Sterling US dollar 5% change 28 1 40 Sterling euro 5% change 15 1 13 The Group also manages its foreign exchange exposure to net investments in overseas operations through the use of currency swap contracts.
The amount deferred in equity from derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges is offset against the foreign currency translation effect of the net investment in overseas operations, and is released to the income statement upon disposal of those investments.
Interest rate management The Group has an exposure to interest rate risk, arising principally from changes in US dollar, sterling and euro interest rates.
This risk is managed by fixing or capping portions of debt using interest rate derivatives to achieve a target level of fixed floating rate net debt, which aims to optimise net finance expense and reduce volatility in reported earnings.
The Groups policy is that between 30% and 75% of Group net debt excluding the Groups share of joint-venture net debt is fixed or capped excluding out-of-the-money caps for more than one year and that no interest rates are fixed for more than 12 years.
A derogation of the maximum percentage of fixed rate debt was approved by the Tate & Lyle PLC Board until 30 June 2010.
At 31 March 2010, the longest term of any fixed rate debt held by the Group was until November 2019 2009 June 2016.
The proportion of net debt excluding the Groups share of joint-venture net debt that was fixed or capped for more than one year was 82% 2009 55%.
If the interest rates applicable to the Groups floating rate debt rise fall from the levels at the end of March 2010 by an average of 100 basis points over the year to 31 March 2011, Group profit before tax will reduce increase by approximately 1 million 2009 4 million.
The floating rate interest payments on 136 million 2009 142 million of the Groups borrowings are hedged and designated under cash flow hedge relationships.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 87 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the consolidated financial statements 21 Financial risk factors continued Price risk management Tate & Lyle participates mainly in four markets: food and beverage: industrial ingredients: pharmaceutical and personal care: and animal feed.
Food and beverage and industrial ingredients are the most significant.
All ingredients are produced from renewable crops, predominantly corn maize and sugar cane.
Tate & Lyle is exposed to movements in the future prices of commodities in those domestic and international markets where the Group buys and sells corn, sugar and energy for production.
Commodity futures, forwards and options are used where available to hedge inventories and the costs of raw materials for unpriced and prospective contracts not covered by forward product sales.
In most cases, these hedging contracts mature within one year and are either traded on recognised exchanges or over the counter.
The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the Groups commodity pricing contracts as of 31 March to the price movement of commodities.
31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Income Income statement Equity statement Equity m m m m Corn 30% change 2 2 1 Sugar 20% change 3 1 The majority of the Groups commodity pricing contracts are held for trading and changes in mark-to-market values of these contracts are taken directly into the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity from commodity pricing contracts designated as cash flow hedges are released to the income statement and offset against the movement in underlying transactions when they occur.
Credit risk management Counterparty credit risk arises from the placing of deposits and entering into derivative financial instrument contracts with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures inherent within the Groups outstanding receivables.
The Group manages credit risk by entering into financial instrument contracts only with highly credit-rated authorised counterparties which are reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
The Group has Board approved maximum counterparty exposure limits for specified banks and financial institutions based on the long-term credit ratings of Standard & Poors and Moodys typically single A long-term credit ratings or higher.
Trading limits assigned to commercial customers are based on ratings from Dun & Bradstreet and Credit Risk Monitor.
In cases where published financial ratings are not available or inconclusive, credit application, reference checking, and obtaining of customers confidential financial information such as liquidity and turnover ratio, are required to evaluate customers credit worthiness.
Counterparties positions are monitored on a regular basis to ensure that they are within the approved limits and there are no significant concentrations of credit risks.
The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk as follows: 31 March 2010 2009 m m Cash and cash equivalents 504 434 Trade and other receivables 398 687 Derivative financial instruments assets 199 247 Available-for-sale financial assets 14 11 The Groups trade receivables are short term in nature and largely comprise amounts receivable from consumers and business customers.
There are no amounts included in trade receivables in respect of securitised receivables 2009 98 million.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large, unrelated and internationally dispersed.
Liquidity risk management The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk and ensures maximum flexibility in meeting changing business needs, by maintaining access to a wide range of funding sources, including capital markets and bank borrowings.
In November 2009, the Group issued a 200 million 6.75% bond which matures in November 2019, and undertook a tender offer to repurchase the 2012 sterling bonds.
The objective of the new issue in conjunction with the tender offer for the 2012 sterling bonds was to extend the Groups maturity profile and further diversify sources of funding.
The Group repurchased 100 million of the 2012 sterling bonds on the completion of the tender offer.
Capital market issues outstanding at 31March 2010 include the US$300 million 6.125% 144A bond maturing in 2011, the 100 million 6.50% bond maturing in 2012, the US$500million 5.00% 144A bond maturing in 2014, the US$250 million 6.625% 144A bond maturing in 2016, and the 200 million 6.75% bond maturing in 2019.
The Group ensures that it has sufficient undrawn committed bank facilities to provide liquidity back-up to cover its funding requirements for the foreseeable future.
The Group has a core committed bank facility of US$1 billion of which US$1 billion matures in 2012.
This facility is unsecured and contains common financial covenants for Tate & Lyle and its subsidiary companies that the pre-exceptional and amortisation interest cover ratio should not be less than 2.5 times and the multiple of net debt to EBITDA, as defined in our financial covenants, should not be greater than 4.0 times.
In the year ended 31 March 2009, the Group amended the definition of the net debt to EBITDA covenant in the US$1 billion Revolving Credit Facility to eliminate the distortion of foreign exchange volatility, so that net debt is translated at the same average exchange rates used to translate EBITDA.
The Group monitors compliance against all its financial obligations and it is Group policy to manage the consolidated statement of financial position so as to operate well within these covenanted restrictions.
In both the current and comparative reporting period, the Group complied with its financial covenants at all measurement points.
The majority of the Groups borrowings are raised through the Group treasury company, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC, and are then on-lent to the business units on an arms length basis.
88 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 21 Financial risk factors continued Current Group policy is to ensure that, after subtracting the total of undrawn committed facilities, no more than 10% of gross debt matures within 12 months and no more than 35% has a maturity within two and a half years.
At 31 March 2010, after subtracting total undrawn committed facilities, there was no debt maturing within two and a half years 2009 none.
The average maturity of the Groups gross debt was 5.4years 2009 4.8 years.
At the year end the Group held cash and cash equivalents of 504 million 2009 434 million and had committed facilities of 659 million 2009 788 million of which 515 million 2009 524 million were undrawn.
These resources are maintained to provide liquidity back-up and to meet the projected maximum cash outflow from debt repayment, capital expenditure and seasonal working capital needs foreseen for at least a year into the future at any one time.
The table below analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
31 March 2010 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Liquidity analysis m m m Borrowings including finance leases 191 653 435 Interest on borrowings 62 190 115 Trade and other payables 474 Derivative contracts receipts 407 778 Derivative contracts payments 394 802 Commodity contracts 123 3 Of the 191 million borrowings with maturities of less than one year 138 million relates to the draw down of committed facilities under the Revolving Credit Facility which matures in 2012.
31 March 2009 1 year 1-5 years 5 years m m m Borrowings including finance leases 525 483 598 Interest on borrowings 61 183 81 Trade and other payables 516 Derivative contracts receipts 521 306 Derivative contracts payments 505 351 Commodity contracts 232 9 Included in borrowings are 2,394,000 of 6.5% cumulative preference shares.
Only one years worth of interest payable on these cumulative preference shares is included in the less than one year category above.
Interest on borrowings is calculated based on borrowings held at year end without taking into account future issues.
Floating-rate interest is calculated using forward interest rates derived from interest rate yield curves as at year end.
Derivative contracts include currency swaps, forward exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, and interest rate caps.
All commodity pricing contracts such as options and futures are shown separately under commodity contracts.
Commodity contracts include only net settled commodity derivative contracts and gross settled commodity purchase contracts with negative fair values.
Purchase contracts outflows represent actual contractual cash flows under the purchase contracts and not their fair values.
Cash outflows from the purchase contracts are offset by cash inflows received from sale contracts: however, these inflows are not included as part of this analysis.
Financial liabilities denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling are converted to pounds sterling using year end exchange rates.
Capital risk management The Groups primary objectives in managing its capital are to safeguard the business as a going concern: to maintain sufficient financial flexibility to undertake its investment plans: to retain as a minimum an investment grade credit rating which enables consistent access to debt capital markets: and to optimise capital structure in order to reduce the cost of capital.
The Groups financial profile and level of financial risk is assessed on a regular basis in the light of changes to the economic conditions, business environment, the Groups business profile and the risk characteristics of its businesses.
Tate & Lyle has contractual relationships with Moodys and Standard and Poors S&P for the provision of credit ratings, and it is the Groups policy to keep them informed of all major developments.
At 31 March 2010, the long-term credit rating from Moodys was Baa3 stable outlook and from S&P was BBB negative outlook.
The Group is committed to maintaining investment grade credit ratings.
The Group regards its total capital as follows: 31 March 2010 2009 m m Net debt 814 1 231 Total shareholders equity 854 1 013 Total capital 1 668 2 244 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 89 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
