Notes to the Parent company financial statements 1 Parent company accounting policies Tangible fixed assets Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to write off the cost of Accounting basis tangible fixed assets over their estimated useful life.
The tangible fixed The Parent company financial statements are prepared under the assets comprise plant and machinery and computer software which historical cost convention in accordance with the Companies Act are depreciated over a period of 3 to 28 years.
Impairment reviews are 2006 and applicable UK accounting standards.
As permitted by undertaken if there are indications that the carrying values may not Section 408 2 of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys profit be recoverable.
and loss account and statement of total recognised gains and losses are not presented in these financial statements.
The Tate & Lyle PLC Investments consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March Unless they are financed by foreign currency borrowings and 2010 contain a consolidated statement of cash flows.
Consequently designated as a fair value hedging relationship, investments in the Company has taken the exemption available in FRS1 Revised subsidiaries and associates are shown at cost less amounts written 1996 Cash flow statements, and has not presented its own cash off where there is a permanent diminution in value.
shares in overseas undertakings that are financed by foreign currency borrowings and designated as a fair value hedging relationship are New UK standards and interpretations adopted retranslated into pounds sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the The following new standards, amendments and interpretations were balance sheet date and the resulting exchange gains and losses are adopted by the Company in the year.
Adoption had no effect on the recognised in the profit and loss account.
Exchange gains and losses results, financial position of the Company or its disclosures.
on the related foreign currency borrowings are also recognised in the profit and loss account in accordance with FRS23 The Effects of Amendment to FRS8 Related Party Disclosures Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
Amendment to FRS20 Share-based Payment Vesting conditions and cancellations An undertaking is regarded as a subsidiary undertaking if the UITF Abstract 46 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Company has control over its operating and financial policies.
Foreign Operation An undertaking is regarded as an associate if the Company holds a participating interest and has significant influence, but not control, over New UK standards and interpretations not adopted its operating and financial policies.
Significant influence generally exists The following amendments to Financial Reporting Standards have where the Company holds more than 20% and less than 50% of the been issued but have not been adopted yet by the Company: shareholders voting rights.
Amendment to FRS25 Financial Instruments: Presentation Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation All loans and receivables to and from subsidiary undertakings are Amendment to FRS26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and shown at cost less amounts written off where deemed unrecoverable.
Measurement Eligible hedged items Improvements to Financial Reporting Standards Leases Amendments to FRS29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Operating lease costs are charged to profit as incurred.
Amendment to FRS20 Share-based payment Group cashsettled share-based payment transactions Research and development All expenditure on research and development is charged to profit The amendments to FRS25, FRS26 and the improvements to as incurred.
Financial Reporting Standards are effective for the Company in its accounting period beginning on 1 April 2010.
The adoption of these amendments is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys profit for the year or equity.
The adoptions may affect disclosures in the Companys financial statements.
112 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 1 Parent company accounting policies continued Dividend distribution Final dividend distributions to the Companys equity holders are Retirement benefits recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the The Company contributes to the Group pension plan operated period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys in the UK.
Details of the plan are included within Note 30 of the shareholders, while interim dividend distributions are recognised in the Group financial statements.
As permitted under FRS17 Retirement period in which the dividends are declared and paid.
Where a scrip Benefits, the plan is accounted for as a defined contribution plan, as alternative is offered and taken, the distribution is effected through an the employer cannot identify its share of the underlying assets and issue of bonus shares from the share premium account.
The employers contributions relate to the current service period only and are charged to the income statement as they Share capital are incurred.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity Deferred tax as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Deferred tax is recognised on a full provision basis on timing Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share differences between the recognition of gains and losses in the capital and holds that share either directly as treasury shares or accounts and their recognition for tax purposes that have arisen indirectly within an ESOP trust, the consideration paid, including but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is not any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is recognised on permanent differences or on timing differences arising deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders on unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries.
Deferred tax assets are until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such recognised only to the extent that it is considered more likely than not shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, that there will be sufficient future taxable profits to permit tax relief of net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the underlying timing differences.
the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
These shares are used to satisfy Foreign currencies share options granted to employees under the Groups share option Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into pounds schemes.
The trustee purchases the Companys shares on the open sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the last day of the financial market using loans made by the Company or other loans guaranteed period the closing rate.
Profits and losses are translated into pounds by the Company.
sterling at the prevailing rate at the time of transaction and credited or charged to the profit and loss account.
Share-based compensation The Company operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
Details of the plans are included within Note 26 of the Group financial statements.
The fair value of employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, earnings targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, for options granted with non-market vesting conditions, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the profit and loss account, and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 113 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
