The parent company, Tate & Lyle PLC, has not adopted IFRS as its c Group entities statutory reporting basis.
Audited financial statements for the parent From 1 April 2004, the results and financial position of all the Groups company, prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, are set out on entities that have a functional currency different from the presentational pages 110 to 117. currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: i assets and liabilities, including goodwill and fair value adjustments 2 Group accounting policies for each statement of financial position presented, are translated at Basis of consolidation the closing rate at the date of that statement of financial position: a Subsidiaries ii income and expenses for each income statement and cash Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to flows are translated at weighted average exchange rates as a govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying reasonable approximation to the rates prevailing on the transaction a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights and taking dates: and into account the existence of potential voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the Prior to 1 April 2004, exchange differences were recognised in acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The recognised identifiable retained earnings.
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The interest of minority On consolidation, exchange differences arising from borrowings shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
investments, are taken to equity.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences that subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those have accumulated since 1 April 2004 are recognised in the income used by the Group.
All inter-company transactions and balances statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
b Joint ventures Property, plant and equipment An entity is regarded as a joint venture if the Group has joint control Land and buildings mainly comprise manufacturing sites and over its operating and financial policies.
The Groups interests in  facilities.
controlled entities are accounted for by proportionate consolidation, Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less whereby the Groups share of the joint ventures income and depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost includes expenditure expenses, assets and liabilities and cash flows are combined on a that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent line-by-line basis with similar items in the Groups financial statements.
costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future of joint ventures to bring the accounting policies used into line with economic benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the those used by the Group.
The Group recognises the portion of gains Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All repairs or losses on the sale of assets to the joint venture that is attributable and maintenance expenditures are charged to the income statement to the other venturers.
The Group does not recognise its share of during the financial period in which they are incurred.
profits or losses from the joint venture that result from the Groups purchase of assets from the joint venture until it resells the assets to Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate an external entity.
the cost or revalued amount of each asset to its residual value over its useful economic life as follows: c Associates An entity is regarded as an associate if the Group has significant Freehold land: No depreciation influence, but not control, over its operating and financial policies.
Freehold buildings: 20 to 50 years Significant influence generally exists where the Group holds more than Leasehold property: Period of the lease 20% and less than 50% of the shareholders voting rights.
Associates Bulk liquid storage tanks: 12 to 20 years are accounted for under the equity method whereby the Groups Plant and machinery: 3 to 28 years income statement includes its share of their profits and losses and the Groups statement of financial position includes its share of their The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each net assets.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statement of financial position date and adjusted if appropriate.
statements of associates to bring the accounting policies used An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its into line with those used by the Group.
When the Groups share of recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, its estimated recoverable amount.
including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not In the prior year the useful lives of certain assets were adjusted recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made which resulted in a reduction in the depreciation charge by payments on behalf of the associate.
Foreign currency translation Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the a Functional and presentational currency disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in the Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups income statement.
entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Leased assets The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group assumes sterling, which is the Groups presentational currency.
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at the b Transactions and balances lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional minimum lease payments.
The corresponding leasing commitments, currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the net of finance charges, are included in liabilities.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at period Leasing payments are analysed between capital and interest end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated components so that the interest element is charged to the income in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except statement over the period of the lease at a constant periodic rate of when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying interest on the remaining balance of the liability outstanding.
Depreciation on assets held under finance leases is charged to the income statement.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 65 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Group accounting policies continued b Loans and receivables Non-current and current receivables and loans granted are recognised All other leases are treated as operating leases with annual rentals initially at fair value and thereafter carried at amortised cost less charged to the income statement, net of any incentives granted to the provisions for impairment.
Movements in carrying value are recognised lessee, over the term of the lease.
c Borrowings Intangible assets Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction a Goodwill costs incurred.
Where borrowings are designated as hedged items Goodwill is calculated as the difference between the fair value of the under fair value hedges, they are subsequently remeasured for fair consideration exchanged in a business combination, including directly value changes in respect of the hedged risk with such changes attributable acquisition costs, and the net fair values of the identifiable recognised in the income statement.
Otherwise, borrowings are assets and liabilities acquired and is capitalised.
Goodwill is tested for subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the impairment annually and whenever there is an indication of impairment proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings Where the acquired interest in the net fair value of the identifiable using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as assets and liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business component include d Commodity trading instruments the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Commodity instruments acquired for trading purposes are carried b Patents and other intellectual property at fair value.
Movements in fair value are recognised in the Patents and other intellectual property are shown at historical cost income statement.
less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Where the assets are acquired as part of a business combination, historical e Commodity and treasury hedging instruments cost is based on their fair values as at the date of the combination.
Under IAS 39, hedging relationships are categorised by type and must Amortisation of the assets is recognised on a straight-line basis over meet strict criteria to qualify for hedge accounting.
the period of their expected benefit.
i Cash flow hedges c Other acquired intangible assets Hedges of firm commitments and highly probable forecast Other acquired intangible assets are intangible assets arising on transactions, including forecast intra-group transactions that are consolidation of acquired businesses and include brands, recipes, expected to affect consolidated profit or loss, are designated customer relationships and supplier networks.
Amortisation of the as cash flow hedges.
To the extent that movements in the fair assets is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of their values of these instruments effectively offset the underlying risk expected benefit.
being hedged they are recognised in the hedging reserve in equity until the period during which the hedged forecast transaction d Other intangible assets affects profit or loss, at which point the cumulative gain or loss is Other intangible assets mainly include certain development recognised in the income statement, offsetting the value of the expenditure and software costs.
Costs incurred on development hedged transaction.
projects relating to the design and testing of new or improved products are recognised as intangible assets when the IAS 38 ii Fair value hedges recognition criteria are met.
Capitalised development costs are Hedges against the movement in fair value of recognised assets amortised from the commencement of the commercial production and liabilities are designated as fair value hedges.
To the extent of the product on a straight-line basis over the period of its expected that movements in the fair values of these instruments effectively benefit.
Research and other development expenditures are recognised offset the underlying risk being hedged they are recognised in the as an expense as incurred.
Development costs previously recognised income statement by offset against the hedged transaction.
as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
iii Hedges of net investments Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation are designated Impairment as net investment hedges.
To the extent that movements in the Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation fair values of these instruments effectively offset the underlying and are tested annually for impairment.
In addition, assets in the risk being hedged they are recognised in the translation reserve course of construction are not depreciated and are subject to until the period during which a foreign operation is disposed of or annual impairment review.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or partially disposed of, at which point the cumulative gain or loss depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes is recognised in profit or loss, offsetting the cumulative difference in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recognised on the translation of the net investment.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
Hedge accounting is discontinued at the point when the hedging The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs relationship no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
In the case of to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, cash flow hedging relationships, the cumulative movement in the fair assets other than goodwill are grouped at the lowest levels for which value of the hedging instrument previously recognised in equity up to there are separately identifiable cash inflows.
Goodwill is allocated to that point is retained there until the forecast transaction affects profit units representing the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored or loss, unless the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, by the Groups Board of Directors for internal management purposes.
in which case the cumulative movement in fair value is transferred Further details are given in Note 3. to profit or loss immediately.
Movements in the fair value of hedging instruments where the relationship failed to meet the IAS39 hedge Financial instruments accounting criteria or where the movement represents the ineffective a Available-for-sale financial assets portion of a qualifying hedging relationship are recognised in the Equity instruments held by the Group and designated as available-forincome statement immediately as other income and expense or net sale are carried at fair value, with movements in fair value recognised finance expense, as appropriate.
Cumulative fair value gains or losses on an asset are f Embedded derivatives recycled through the income statement when the asset is disposed Where an embedded derivative is not closely related to the host or impaired.
A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the contract and where the host contract itself is not already recognised security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities at fair value, movements in the fair value of the embedded derivative are impaired.
Impairments are recognised in the income statement.
are separated from the associated transaction and, except where the embedded derivative is designated as a cash flow hedging instrument, recognised in the income statement.
66 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 2 Group accounting policies continued profit.
In principle, deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except as noted below and deferred tax assets g Fair values are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will Fair values are based on market values where they are available.
be available against which deductible temporary differences can be For unlisted securities the Group establishes fair value using utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length differences arise from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than transactions, reference to other similar instruments and discounted in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction cash flow analysis.
which affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Where no market prices are available, the fair value of financial Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences liabilities is calculated with reference to discounted expected future arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in cash flows.
joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary Inventories difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value Deferred tax is calculated using the enacted or substantively enacted with the exception of certain items of merchandisable agricultural rates that are expected to apply when the asset or liability is settled.
commodities which are stated at market value, in line with regional Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except industry accounting practices.
when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income using the first in first out or weighted average cost methods, taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to appropriate to the materials and production processes involved.
settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs to completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, Revenue recognition selling and distribution.
a Sales of goods and services Sales comprise the amount receivable in the ordinary course of Cash and cash equivalents business, net of value added and sales taxes, for goods and services Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call provided.
Sales are recognised at the point or points at which the with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original Group has performed its obligations in connection with the contractual maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts which are not terms of the sales agreement, and in exchange obtains the right considered to be borrowings in nature.
Share capital b Interest income Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a effective interest method.
deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
c Dividend income Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment capital and holds that share either directly as treasury shares or is established.
indirectly within an ESOP trust, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is Employee benefits deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders a Pension obligations until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed.
Where such Group companies operate various pension schemes.
The schemes shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and trustee payments to insurance companies or trustee-administered the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The Group has the Companys equity holders.
These shares are used to satisfy both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
share options granted to employees under the Groups share option A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of schemes.
The trustee of the ESOP trust purchases the Companys pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually shares on the open market using loans made by the Company or dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and other loans guaranteed by the Company.
Provisions A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group Provisions for liabilities and charges are recognised when the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably employee service in the current and prior periods.
If the effect is material, provisions are measured using The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position in expected future cash flows discounted at a pre-tax rate that reflects respect of defined benefit pension plans are the present value of the current market assessments of the time value of money and, where defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
The impact of unwinding of plan assets, together with adjustments for actuarial gains or losses any discount is taken to finance expense.
charged or credited to equity and past service costs.
The defined Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
A provision benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will Income taxes be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms The charge for current tax is based on the results for the year as of the related pension liability.
Past service costs are recognised adjusted for items which are non-taxable or disallowed.
It is calculated immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified balance sheet date.
period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences arising from differences between Any gains or losses from settlement or curtailment is recognised in the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements the income statement when the curtailment or settlement occurs.
and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 67 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
