Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder information Business Review Governance Shareholder Information Notice of Meeting This notice of meeting is important and 11.
Subject to the passing of resolution Special Resolutions: requires your immediate attention.
If you 10, to authorise the Audit Committee 13.
That, if resolution 12 is passed, the to determine the remuneration of the Board be given the power to allot are in any doubt as to the action you auditors on behalf of the Board.
equity securities as defined in the should take, you are recommended to seek Companies Act 2006 for cash under your own financial advice immediately from 12.
That the Board be authorised to allot the authority given by that resolution a stockbroker, solicitor, bank manager, shares in the Company and to grant and or to sell ordinary shares held by accountant, or other independent financial rights to subscribe for or convert any the Company as treasury shares for adviser authorised under the Financial security into shares in the Company: cash, free of the restriction in section Services and Markets Act 2000.
561 of the Companies Act 2006, such A up to a nominal amount of If you have sold or otherwise transferred power to be limited: 10,659,853 such amount to be all of your shares in Taylor Wimpey plc the reduced by the nominal amount of A to the allotment of equity securities Company, please pass this document any equity securities as defined in and sale of treasury shares for together with the accompanying the Companies Act 2006 allotted cash in connection with an offer documents to the purchaser or transferee, under paragraph B below in of or invitation to apply for equity or to the person who arranged the excess of 10,659,853 : and securities but in the case of the sale or transfer so they can pass these authority granted under paragraph B comprising equity securities as documents to the person who now holds B of resolution 12, by way of a defined in the Companies Act the shares.
If you have sold or transferred rights issue only : 2006 up to a nominal amount part only of your holding of shares in the of 21,319,706 such amount to i to ordinary shareholders in Company, please consult the person who be reduced by any shares and proportion as nearly as may arranged the sale or transfer.
rights to subscribe for or convert be practicable to their existing Notice is hereby given of the seventy sixth any security into shares allotted holdings: and under paragraph A above in Annual General Meeting of the Company ii to holders of other equity connection with an offer by way of to be held on 21 April 2011 at 11:00 am securities, as required by the rights a rightsissue: at The British Medical Association, BMA of those securities or, as the Board House, Tavistock Square, London, WC1H i to ordinary shareholders in otherwise considers necessary: 9JP for the following purposes: proportion as nearly as may and so that the Board may OrdiNary busiNess be practicable to their existing impose any limits or restrictions Ordinary Resolutions: holdings: and and make any arrangements 1.
To receive the Reports of the Directors ii to holders of other equity which it considers necessary or and the Auditors and the Financial securities as required by the rights appropriate to deal with treasury Statements for the year ended 31 of those securities or as the Board shares, fractional entitlements, December 2010. otherwise considers necessary: record dates, legal, regulatory or 2.
To elect as a Director, Kevin Beeston practical problems in, or under the and so that the Board may impose who was appointed as a Director of laws of, any territory or any other any limits or restrictions and the Company by the Board since the matter:and make any arrangements which it last Annual General Meeting.
considers necessary or appropriate B in the case of the authority granted 3.
To elect as a Director, Ryan Mangold to deal with treasury shares, under paragraph A of resolution who was appointed as a Director of fractional entitlements, record 12 and or in the case of any sale the Company by the Board since the dates, legal, regulatory or practical of treasury shares for cash, to the last Annual General Meeting.
problems in, or under the laws of, allotment otherwise than under any territory or any other matter, paragraph A above of equity 4.
To elect as a Director, Kate Barker securities up to a nominal amount CBE who was appointed as a Director such authorities to apply until the of 1,598,977, of the Company by the Board since end of the Annual General Meeting the last Annual General Meeting.
of the Company in 2012 or, if earlier, such power to apply until the end until the close of business on 20 July of the Annual General Meeting of 5.
To re-elect as a Director, Pete Redfern.
2012 but, in each case, so that the the Company in 2012 or, if earlier, 6.
To re-elect as a Director, Sheryl Palmer.
Company may make offers and enter until the close of business on 20 7.
To re-elect as a Director, Baroness into agreements during this period July 2012, but during this period Dean of Thornton-le-Fylde.
which would, or might, require shares the Company may make offers, and to be allotted or rights to subscribe enter into agreements, which would, 8.
To re-elect as a Director, Anthony for or convert securities into shares to or might, require equity securities to Reading MBE.
be granted after the authority ends: be allotted and treasury shares to be 9.
To re-elect as a Director, Robert and the Board may allot shares or sold after the power ends: and the Rowley.
grant rights to subscribe for or convert Board may allot equity securities and 10.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors securities into shares under any such sell treasury shares under any such of the Company, to hold office until the offer or agreement as if the authority offer or agreement as if the power had conclusion of the next general meeting had not ended.
at which accounts are laid before theCompany.
104 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder information Business Review Governance Shareholder Information 14.
That the Company be authorised to B make political donations to political receive it by no later than 11:00 am on organisations other than political make market purchases within the 19 April 2011.
If you prefer, you can parties not exceeding 250,000 in meaning of Section 693 4 of the submit your proxy electronically either via aggregate: and Companies Act 2006 of the ordinary the internet at www.
com shares of 1p each of the Company or, if you are a CREST member, through C incur political expenditure not ordinary shares, providedthat: the CREST system by completing and exceeding 250,000 in aggregate, transmitting a CREST proxy instruction as A the maximum number of ordinary during the period beginning with the described in the procedural notes below.
shares hereby authorised to be date of passing this resolution and purchased shall be 319,795,593: Recommendation ending at the conclusion of the Annual Your Directors are of the opinion that General Meeting of the Company B the minimum price which may be the resolutions to be proposed at the in2012.
paid for ordinary shares is 1p per Annual General Meeting are in the best ordinary share: For the purposes of this resolution the interests of shareholders as a whole and C the maximum price exclusive of terms political donations, political recommend you to vote in favour of them.
expenses which may be paid for parties, independent election Each Director will be doing so in respect of an ordinary share is an amount candidates, political organisation his or her own beneficial shareholding.
equal to 105% of the average of and political expenditure have the Inspection of documents the middle market quotations for meanings given by sections 363 to The following documents will be available an ordinary share as derived from 365 of the Companies Act 2006. for inspection at the Companys registered the London Stock Exchange Daily Special Resolution: office, 80 New Bond Street, London Official List for the five business 17.
That a general meeting other than W1S 1SB, during normal business hours days immediately preceding the an Annual General Meeting of the from the date of this notice of meeting until date on which such ordinary share Company may continue to be called the date of the Annual General Meeting is purchased: on not less than 14 clear days notice.
and at The British Medical Association, D the authority hereby conferred BMA House, Tavistock Square, London Explanatory notes relating to each of the shall expire at the earlier of the WC1H 9JP from 15 minutes before the above resolutions are set out on pages conclusion of the Annual General Annual General Meeting until it ends: 107 to 110.
Meeting of the Company in 2012 copies of the Executive Directors and 20 October 2012 unless such Action to be taken service contracts: and authority is renewed prior to such If you wish to attend and vote at the time: and Annual General Meeting in person, copies of the letters of appointment of please bring with you the attendance the Non Executive Directors.
E the Company may make contracts card accompanying this document and to purchase ordinary shares under A copy of the full Annual Report and retain it until the end of the meeting.
It will the authority hereby conferred Financial Statements of the Company authenticate your right to attend, speak prior to the expiry of such authority for the year ended 31 December 2010, and vote, and will help us to register your which will or may be executed including the Directors Remuneration attendance without delay.
Registration will wholly or partly after the expiry of Report referred to in Resolution 15, is also be available from 9:30 am on the day of such authority, and may purchase available on our Web site the meeting.
For the safety and comfort ordinary shares in pursuance of any www.
of those attending the meeting, large such contracts, as if the authority bags, cameras, recording equipment and By Order of the Board conferred by this resolution had similar items will not be allowed into the notexpired.
The meeting will commence at special busiNess 11:00 am and light refreshments will be Ordinary Resolutions: available from 10:00 am and also after 15.
To approve the Directors the conclusion of the meeting.
There Remuneration Report for the year is wheelchair access to the venue for James Jordan ended 31 December 2010. shareholders who require it or those with Group Company Secretary and reduced mobility.
That in accordance with Sections 366 General Counsel strongly advised to bring their own carers and 367 of the Companies Act 2006, to assist with their general mobility around Taylor Wimpey plc the Company and all companies which the venue.
An induction loop system Registered Office: are its subsidiaries when this resolution operates in the meeting room.
Directions 80 New Bond Street is passed are authorised to: to the venue can be found on the reverse London A make political donations to political of your attendance card.
W1S 1SB parties and or independent If you would like to vote on the resolutions Registered in England and Wales election candidates not exceeding but cannot come to the Annual General under number 296805 250,000 in aggregate: Meeting, please fill in the proxy form sent 2 March 2011 to you with this notice and return it to our registrar as soon as possible.
They must 105 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder information Business Review Governance Shareholder Information Notes to the Notice of Meeting procedural notes 4.
To be valid any proxy form or other 8.
CREST members who wish to appoint 1.
To be entitled to attend and vote at instrument appointing a proxy must be a proxy or proxies through the CREST the Annual General Meeting and received by post to Freepost RSBHelectronic proxy appointment service for the purpose of the determination UXKS-LRBC, PXS, 34 Beckenham may do so by using the procedures by the Company of the votes which Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, described in the CREST Manual.
shareholders may cast, shareholders or during normal business hours CREST Personal Members or other must be registered in the Register of only by hand at Capita Registrars, CREST sponsored members, and Members of the Company at 6:00 pm 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, those CREST members who have on 19 April 2011 or, in the event of Kent, BR3 4TU, or, if you prefer, appointed a service provider s, should any adjournment, on the date which electronically via the internet at www.
refer to their CREST sponsor or voting is two days before the time of the capitashareportal.
com or, if you are service provider s, who will be able adjourned meeting.
Shareholders a member of CREST, via the service to take the appropriate action on then on the Register of Members shall provided by Euroclear UK and Ireland theirbehalf.
be entitled to attend and vote at the Limited at the electronic address 9.
In order for a proxy appointment or Annual General Meeting in respect provided in note 9, in each case no instruction made using the CREST of the number of shares registered later than 11:00 am on 19 April 2011. service to be valid, it must be properly in their name at that time.
Changes All forms of proxy received after this authenticated in accordance with to entries on the relevant Register of time will be void.
A form of proxy Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds Members after that deadline shall be sent electronically at any time that specifications, and must contain disregarded in determining the rights is found to contain any virus will not the information required for such of any person to attend and vote at the beaccepted.
instruction, as described in the Annual General Meeting.
The return of a completed proxy form, CREST Manual available via www.
As at 2 March 2011 being the last other such instrument or any CREST euroclear.
The message, business day prior to the publication Proxy Instruction as further described regardless of whether it constitutes of this notice the Companys in notes 8 and 9 below will not prevent the appointment of a proxy or is an issued share capital consisted of a shareholder attending the Annual amendment to the instruction given 3,197,955,937 ordinary shares, General Meeting and voting in person to a previously appointed proxy must, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the if he she wishes to do so.
in order to be valid, be transmitted total voting rights in the Company as so as to be received by the issuers 6.
Any person to whom this notice is at 2 March 2011 were 3,197,955,937. agent ID RA10 by 11:00 am on 19 sent who is a person nominated April 2011.
For this purpose, the time 3.
If you are a shareholder of the under section 146 of the Companies of receipt will be taken to be the time Company at the time and date set Act 2006 to enjoy information rights as determined by the time stamp out in note 1 above, you are entitled a Nominated Person may, under applied to the message by the CREST to appoint a proxy to exercise all or an agreement between him her Application Host from which the any of your rights to attend and to and the shareholder by whom he issuers agent is able to retrieve the speak and vote on your behalf at the she was nominated, have a right to message by enquiry to CREST in the meeting.
Shareholders may appoint be appointed or to have someone manner prescribed by CREST.
After more than one proxy in relation to the else appointed as a proxy for this time any change of instructions Annual General Meeting provided that the Annual General Meeting.
If a to proxies appointed through CREST each proxy is appointed to exercise Nominated Person has no such proxy should be communicated to the the rights attached to a different share appointment right or does not wish appointee through other means.
or shares held by that shareholder.
to exercise it, he she may, under A proxy need not be a shareholder any such agreement, have a right to 10.
CREST members and, where of the Company but must attend the give instructions to the shareholder applicable, their CREST sponsors, or Annual General Meeting to represent as to the exercise of voting rights.
voting service providers should note you.
A proxy form which may be used Such persons should direct any that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited to make such appointment and give communications and enquiries to the does not make available special proxy instructions accompanies this registered holder of the shares by procedures in CREST for any particular notice.
If you do not have a proxy whom they were nominated and not to message.
Normal system timings form and believe that you should have the Company or its registrar.
and limitations will, therefore, apply in one, or if you require additional forms, relation to the input of CREST Proxy 7.
The statement of the rights of please contact Capita Registrars on Instructions.
It is the responsibility shareholders in relation to the 0871 664 0391 calls cost 10p per of the CREST member concerned appointment of proxies in notes 3 and minute plus network extras: lines are to take or, if the CREST member 4 above does not apply to Nominated open 8:30 am to 5:30 pm Monday is a CREST personal member, or Persons.
The rights described in toFriday.
sponsored member, or has appointed these notes can only be exercised by a voting service provider, to procure shareholders of the Company.
106 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder information Business Review Governance Shareholder Information that his CREST sponsor or voting the Annual General Meeting includes Resolutions 2 to 9: Election of Directors service provider s take s such action any statement that the Company has In accordance with the UK Corporate as shall be necessary to ensure that a been required under Section 527 of Governance Code which states that message is transmitted by means of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on all directors of FTSE 350 companies the CREST system by any particular a Web site.
should be subject to annual election by time.
In this connection, CREST shareholders, the Board has resolved that 14.
Any member attending the meeting members and, where applicable, their all Directors of the Company will retire has the right to ask questions.
The CREST sponsors or voting system and, being eligible, offer themselves for Company must cause to be answered providers are referred, in particular, to re-election or election as appropriate any such question relating to the those sections of the CREST Manual by shareholders at the Annual General business being dealt with at the concerning practical limitations of the Meeting.
meeting but no such answer need CREST system and timings.
be given if: i to do so would interfere Kevin Beeston, Ryan Mangold and Kate 11.
The Company may treat as invalid unduly with the preparation for the Barker, who were each appointed as a CREST Proxy Instruction in the meeting or involve the disclosure of Directors of the Company by the Board circumstances set out in Regulation confidential information: ii the answer since the last Annual General Meeting, 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities has already been given on a Web held in April 2010, will retire and offer Regulations 2001. site in the form of an answer to a themselves for election by shareholders question: or iii it is undesirable in the for the first time, as is required by the 12.
Any corporation which is a member interests of the Company or the good Companys Articles of Association.
can appoint one or more corporate order of the meeting that the question representatives who may exercise on Details of the Directors service contracts, beanswered.
its behalf all of its powers as a member remuneration and interests in the provided that they do not do so in 15.
A copy of this Notice, and other Companys shares and other securities relation to the same shares.
information required by Section 311A are given in the Directors Remuneration of the Companies Act 2006, can be Report to shareholders on pages 41 13.
Under Section 527 of the Companies found at www.
to 50 of the Report and Accounts.
Full Act 2006 members meeting the biographical information concerning each threshold requirements set out in that 16.
Voting on all resolutions at this Director is on pages 32 and 33 of the section have the right to require the years Annual General Meeting will Report and Accounts.
Company to publish on a Web site be conducted by way of a poll, a statement setting out any matter rather than on a show of hands.
The following information is given in relating to: The Board believes that a poll is support of the Boards proposal for the more representative of shareholders election or re-election as appropriate of i the audit of the Companys voting intentions because it gives as the Directors of the Company: accounts including the auditors many shareholders as possible the report and the conduct of the audit Kevin Beeston appointed since last AGM opportunity to have their votes counted that are to be laid before the Annual and offers himself for election.
whether their votes are tendered by General Meeting: or Kevin was appointed as a Director and proxy in advance of, or in person at, Chairman on 1 July 2010.
He brings a ii any circumstance connected the Annual General Meeting.
The wealth of experience in the service industry with an auditor of the Company results of the poll will be announced via which will assist the Companys future ceasing to hold office since the a Regulatory News Service and made strategic direction and development and previous meeting at which annual available at www.
com the delivery of value to shareholders.
His accounts and reports were laid in as soon as practicable after the Annual biography appears on page 32. accordance with Section 437 of the General Meeting.
Ryan Mangold appointed since last AGM eXplaNaTOry NOTes TO and offers himself for election.
The Company may not require the THe resOluTiONs Ryan was appointed as a Director and shareholders requesting any such Web OrdiNary busiNess Group Finance Director on 16 November site publication to pay its expenses in OrdiNary resOluTiONs 2010.
He joined Taylor Wimpey as Group complying with Sections 527 or 528 Resolution 1: To receive the annual report Financial Controller in April 2009 and of the Companies Act 2006.
Where and financial statements played an important role in progressing the the Company is required to place a English company law requires the Groups refinancing during 2010.
He was statement on a Web site under Section Directors to lay the Financial Statements previously Group Financial Controller of 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it of the Company for the year ended 31 Mondi Group for five years, prior to which must forward the statement to the December 2010 and the reports of the he held various other senior finance roles Companys auditor not later than the Directors and Auditors before a general with Anglo American plc.
His biography time when it makes the statement meeting of the Company.
appears on page 32. available on the Web site.
The business which may be dealt with at 107 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder information Business Review Governance Shareholder Information Notes to the Notice of Meeting continued Kate Barker CBE to be appointed prior to to devote to the Company.
Her biography are appointed from the conclusion of the the AGM and will offer herself for election.
2011 Annual General Meeting until the Kate will be appointed as an Independent conclusion of the next general meeting Anthony Reading MBE offers himself for Non Executive Director with effect from at which accounts are laid before re-election.
She has previously held shareholders.
The Board recommends Tony has been an Independent Non a number of high profile roles including the re-appointment of Deloitte as the Executive Director since July 2007.
He membership of the Monetary Policy Companys auditors.
has been subjected to a rigorous annual Committee of the Bank of England appraisal, having served for five years Resolution 11: Authorisation of the Audit from 2001 until 2010.
She has also led in that capacity including previously Committee to agree on behalf of the Board independent reviews for the Government for George Wimpey Plc and will have the remuneration of Deloitte as Auditors on UK Housing Supply and on Land Use completed six years by the time of the The Board seeks shareholders authority Planning.
Kate is a Board Member of the Annual General Meeting.
The Board for the Audit Committee to determine Homes and Communities Agency and was is satisfied that he continues to be on behalf of the Board the remuneration also a member of its predecessor body, independent in character and judgement of Deloitte for their services.
The Board the Housing Corporation, but has arranged in applying his expertise at meetings has adopted a procedure governing the that she will stand down from this position of the Board and of the Remuneration appointment of Deloitte to carry out nonprior to joining the Board of Taylor Wimpey.
Committee which he Chairs and the audit services, details of which are given The Board is satisfied that she will be Audit and Nomination Committees, and in the Corporate Governance Report.
independent in character and judgement that his other commitments do not detract Details of non-audit services performed by and that her other commitments will from the extent or quality of time which Deloitte in 2010 are given on page 38 of not detract from the extent or quality of he is able to devote to the Company.
His the Report and Accounts.
time which she will be able to devote to biography appears on page 33. theCompany.
Resolution 12: Authority to allot shares Robert Rowley offers himself for re-election.
Your Directors wish to renew the existing Pete Redfern offers himself for re-election.
Rob has been an Independent Non authority to allot unissued shares in the Pete has been a Director and Group Chief Executive Director since January 2010 Company, which was granted at the Executive since July 2007.
During that and the Senior Independent Director Companys last Annual General Meeting period he has safeguarded the Company since April 2010.
The Board is satisfied held on 29 April 2010 and is due to expire during the severe economic downturn that he continues to be independent in at the conclusion of this Annual General in the UK and, with his additional daycharacter and judgement in applying his Meeting.
Accordingly, Paragraph A of to-day operational responsibility for the expertise at meetings of the Board and resolution 12 would give the Directors Groups UK Housing division, has led the of the Audit Committee which he Chairs the authority to allot ordinary shares or recovery in the Companys prospects.
His and the Nomination and Remuneration grant rights to subscribe for or convert biography appears on page 32.
Committees, and that his other any securities into ordinary shares up to Sheryl Palmer offers herself for re-election.
commitments do not detract from the an aggregate nominal amount equal to Sheryl has been a Director since August extent or quality of time which he is able 10,659,853 representing 1,065,985,300 2009 and, as President and CEO of Taylor to devote to the Company.
This amount represents Morrison, has operational responsibility appears on page 33. approximately one-third of the issued for the Groups North America Housing ordinary share capital of the Company as The Board confirms that, with the division.
She has successfully led the at 2 March 2011, the latest practicable exception of Kate Barker and Ryan North American business through the date prior to publication of this notice Mangold who were subject to a prolonged market downturn in the US.
comprehensive Nomination Committee Her biography appears on page 32. process, each of the Directors has In line with guidance issued by the Baroness Dean of Thornton-le-Fylde recently been subject to formal Association of British Insurers, paragraph offers herself for re-election.
performance evaluation, details of which B of resolution 12 would give the Brenda has been an Independent Non are set out in the Corporate Governance Directors authority to allot ordinary Executive Director since July 2007.
She Report, and that each continues to shares or grant rights to subscribe for has been subjected to a rigorous annual demonstrate commitment and to be an or convert any securities into ordinary appraisal, having served for seven years effective member of the Board.
shares in connection with a rights issue in that capacity including previously for in favour of ordinary shareholders up to Resolution 10: Re-appointment of Deloitte George Wimpey Plc.
The Board is satisfied an aggregate nominal amount equal to LLP Deloitte as auditors of the Company that she continues to be independent in 21,319,706 representing 2,131,970,600 In accordance with English company character and judgement in applying her ordinary shares, as reduced by the law, the Company is required to appoint expertise at meetings of the Board and nominal amount of any shares issued auditors at each general meeting at which of the Nomination and Remuneration under paragraph A of resolution 12.
This accounts are laid before the shareholders.
Committees, and that her other amount before any reduction represents It is therefore proposed that the auditors commitments do not detract from the approximately two-thirds of the issued extent or quality of time which she is able 108 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder information Business Review Governance Shareholder Information ordinary share capital of the Company as The authority will expire at the earlier of 2 March 2011.
If the authority given by at 2 March 2011, the latest practicable 20 July 2012 and the conclusion of the Resolution 14 were to be fully used, these date prior to publication of this notice Annual General Meeting of the Company would represent 1.97% of the Companys ofmeeting.
held in 2012. ordinary issued share capital at that date.
The authorities sought under paragraphs Resolution 14: Authority to make market This authority will last until the earlier of A and B of resolution 12 will expire purchases of shares 20 October 2012 and the conclusion of at the earlier of 20 July 2012 and the This resolution will be proposed as a the Companys Annual General Meeting conclusion of the Annual General Meeting special resolution and therefore requires a in2012.
75% majority of votes to be cast in favour.
special busiNess The Directors have no present intention Any purchases under this authority OrdiNary resOluTiONs to exercise either of the authorities sought would be made in one or more tranches Resolution 15: Approval of the Directors under this resolution.
However, if they and would be limited in aggregate to 10 Remuneration Report for the year ended do exercise the authorities, the Directors per cent.
of the ordinary shares of the 31 December 2010 intend to follow ABI recommendations Company in issue at the close of business The Directors Remuneration Report concerning their use.
on 2 March 2011. for the year ended 31 December 2010 has been prepared in accordance with special resOluTiONs The maximum price to be paid on any Sections 420 and 421 of the Companies Resolution 13: Authority to dis-apply exercise of the authority would not exceed Act 2006.
Section 439 of said Act requires pre-emption rights 105% of the average of the middle the Company to give shareholders notice The Board wishes to renew the existing market quotations for the Companys of an ordinary resolution approving authority from shareholders to allot shares ordinary shares for the five business days the Directors Remuneration Report.
or sell any shares held in treasury for cash immediately preceding the date of the The Directors Remuneration Report is otherwise than to existing shareholders purchase.
Shares purchased pursuant to on pages 41 to 50 of the Report and pro rata to their holdings.
Resolution these authorities could be held as treasury Accounts.
The Board considers that 13, which will be proposed as a special shares, which the Company can re-issue appropriate executive remuneration resolution and therefore requires a 75% quickly and cost-effectively, and provides plays a vital part in helping to achieve the majority of votes to be cast in favour, the Company with additional flexibility in Companys overall objectives.
The vote would give the Directors the authority to the management of its capital base.
The on the Remuneration Report has advisory allot ordinary shares or sell any ordinary total number of shares held as treasury status in respect of the remuneration shares which the Company elects to hold shall not at any one time exceed 10% policy and overall remuneration packages in treasury for cash without first offering of the Companys issued share capital.
and is not specific to individual levels them to existing shareholders in proportion Accordingly, any shares bought back over ofremuneration.
the 10% limit will be cancelled.
This authority would be, similar to previous Resolution 16: Authority to make This is a standard resolution, sought by years, limited to allotments or sales in political donations the majority of public listed companies connection with pre-emptive offers and In order to comply with its obligations at Annual General Meetings.
The Board offers to holders of other equity securities if under the Companies Act 2006 and to has no current intention of utilising required by the rights of those shares or as avoid any inadvertent infringement of this authority and would only consider the Board otherwise considers necessary, that Act, the Board wishes to renew its doing so if it was in the best interests of or otherwise up to an aggregate nominal existing authority for a general level of shareholders generally.
amount of 1,598,977 representing donation and or expenditure.
Resolution The total number of options, conditional 159,897,700 ordinary shares.
This 16 seeks to renew the existing authority share awards and warrants to subscribe aggregate nominal amount represents for the Company to make political for ordinary shares outstanding as at the approximately 5% of the issued ordinary donations and incur political expenditure.
close of business on 2 March 2011 was share capital of the Company as at 2 The Companies Act 2006 requires this 141,938,431, representing approximately March 2011, the latest practicable date authority to be divided into three heads 4.44% of the issued ordinary share capital prior to publication of this notice.
In with a separate amount specified as of the Company as at that date and respect of this aggregate nominal amount, permitted for each.
We have specified approximately 4.93% of the Companys the Directors confirm their intention to an amount not exceeding 250,000 for issued ordinary share capital following any follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption each head of the authority.
In accordance exercise in full of this authority to make Groups Statement of Principles regarding with the Companies Act 2006, Resolution market purchases.
cumulative usage of authorities within 16 extends approval to all of the a rolling three-year period where the Companyssubsidiaries.
The Company has warrants over Principles provide that usage in excess of 56,657,673 Ordinary Shares, representing 7.5% should not take place without prior 1.77% of the Companys ordinary issued consultation with shareholders.
share capital as at close of business on 109 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder information Business Review Governance Shareholder Information Notes to the Notice of Meeting continued This authority will last until the conclusion 17 proposes its renewal.
The shorter of the Annual General Meeting of the notice period of 14 clear days would Company in 2012, unless renewal is not be used as a matter of routine for sought at that meeting.
any general meeting, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of a The Company and the Group do not particular meeting and is thought to be to make any donations to political parties the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
or organisations but do support certain The renewed approval will be effective until industry-wide initiatives such as the Home the Companys Annual General Meeting Builders Federation in the UK.
Whilst we in 2012, when it is intended that a similar do not regard this as political in nature, in resolution will be proposed.
certain circumstances donations made for charitable or similar purposes could Note that in order to be able to call a possibly be treated as a donation to a general meeting on less than 21 clear political organisation under the relevant days notice, the Company must in provisions of the Companies Act 2006. respect of that meeting make available For example, a donation to a humanitarian electronic voting to all shareholders.
charity which may also operate as a political lobby, sponsorship, subscriptions, paid leave to employees fulfilling public duties and payments to industry representative bodies could constitute a donation to a political organisation within the current definitions in the Companies Act 2006.
Details of the Companys and the Groups charitable donations appear on page 53 of the report and accounts.
special resOluTiON Resolution 17: Notice of general meetings This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution and therefore requires a 75% majority of votes to be cast in favour.
The Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 have increased the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders agree to a shorter notice period, which cannot be less than 14 clear days.
At the 2010 Annual General Meeting, a resolution was passed approving the Companys ability to call general meetings other than Annual General Meetings, which will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice on not less than 14 clear days notice.
As this approval will expire at the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting, Resolution 110 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
