Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year to 31 December 2010 for the year to 31 December 2010 million Note 2010 2009 1.
Significant accounting policies Segmental reporting Basis of preparation The Group is divided into four operating divisions for management reporting Net cash from operating activities 27 87.9 206.3 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern and control: basis and on a historical cost basis except as otherwise stated below.
Investing activities Housing United Kingdom: Interest received 0.8 10.0 The Group completed the refinancing of its debt on the 14 December 2010 Housing North America: providing it with access to 1.3 billion of financing.
As part of the refinancing Housing Spain and Gibraltar: and Dividends received from joint ventures 17.1 9.6 arrangement the Group has agreed to new covenants.
Based on the latest Corporate Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and investments 0.1 1.5 available forecasts the Group is expected to be able to be in compliance with the Purchases of property, plant and investments 12 3.7 2.5 In 2009, the Group disposed of its remaining construction operations in Ghana new covenants and has sufficient headroom in the facilities for at least the next Purchases of software 11 1.0 to existing local management for 1 in cash, giving rise to a profit on sale of 12 months.
Amounts invested in joint ventures 1.0 0.2 0.2 million.
The 2009 results of the Ghana operations have been presented Amounts loaned to joint ventures 3.9 2.0 The principal accounting policies adopted, which have been applied consistently, within the Corporate business segment.
except as otherwise stated, are set out below.
Acquisition of subsidiaries 2.8 Revenue Net cash from investing activities 8.4 13.6 Basis of accounting Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Financing activities applicable International Accounting Standards IAS, International Financial Group.
Revenue and profit are recognised as follows: Proceeds from sale of own shares 510.1 Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations a Private housing development properties and land sales Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted for use in the European Union and Cash cost of satisfying share options 0.4 Revenue is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under Other financing activities 0.5 rewards of ownership have been transferred to the purchaser.
Revenue in IFRS relevant to the Groups operations and effective for accounting periods Repayment of debenture loans 732.4 200.4 respect of the sale of residential properties is recognised at the fair value of the beginning on 1 January 2010.
Increase in debenture loans 250.0 consideration received or receivable on legal completion.
Repayment of overdrafts, bank and other loans 348.7 1,124.9 Basis of consolidation b Cash incentives Increase in bank and other loans 781.7 The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Cash incentives are considered to be a discount from the purchase price offered Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to Net cash used in financing activities 49.8 815.7 to the acquirer and are therefore accounted for as a reduction to revenue.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to c Contracting work Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 46.5 595.8 obtain benefits from its activities.
The existence and effect of potential voting Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 132.1 752.3 rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 5.3 24.4 assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by surveys of work Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 27 183.9 132.1 performed to date.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a included to the extent that it is probable that they will result in revenue and they are subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any capable of being reliably measured.
excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred that it is i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period probable will be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an Subsequently, any losses applicable to the non-controlling interest in excess expense immediately.
of the non-controlling interest are allocated against the interests of the parent.
d Interest receivable The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in Interest income on bank deposits is recognised on an accruals basis.
the Consolidated Income Statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to Exceptional items the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where a subsidiary is disposed of Exceptional items are defined as items of income or expenditure which, in the which constituted a major line of business, it is disclosed as a discontinued opinion of the Directors, are material and unusual in nature or of such significance operation.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of that they require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement in subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Foreign currencies The individual statements of each Group company are presented in the currency Joint ventures of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
Undertakings are deemed to be a joint venture when the Group has joint control Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded at the via either voting rights or a formal agreement which includes that unanimous rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance consent is required for strategic, financial and operating decisions.
Joint ventures sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign are consolidated under the equity accounting method.
On transfer of land and or currencies other than the functional currency are retranslated at the rates prevailing work in progress to joint ventures, the Group recognises only its share of any on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value profits or losses, namely that proportion sold outside the Group.
that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at Where a jointly controlled operation is undertaken the related assets and liabilities the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on are consolidated on a proportional consolidation basis.
retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period.
61 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued years from the time of implementation, and are stated at cost less accumulated On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and Property, plant and equipment expense items are translated at an appropriate average rate for the year.
Exchange Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, differences arising are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance sheet at cost less translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Freehold land expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Buildings are depreciated over 50 years.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are Plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation.
Depreciation is charged so treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing as to write off the cost or valuation of assets over their estimated useful lives.
The Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising Depreciation is charged, where material, on buildings over the expected useful life on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS as assets and liabilities of the asset.
Other assets are depreciated using the straight-line method, on the denominated in the functional currency of the company in which they arose.
following bases: The Group enters into forward contracts in order to hedge its exposure to certain Plant, fixtures and equipment 20-25%: and computer equipment 33%.
foreign exchange transaction risks relating to the functional currency in accordance with Group policy.
It also uses foreign currency borrowings and The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined currency swaps to hedge its net investment exposure to certain overseas as the difference between the sale proceeds, less any selling expenses, and the subsidiaries see below for details of the Groups accounting policies in respect carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
of such derivative financial instruments.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill Operating leases At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those The Group as lessee assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable and the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are costs paid and payable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Goodwill Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market of a subsidiary, joint venture, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
If the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, impairment losses are allocated first to the intangible assets For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash-generating in the cash-generating unit.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
CashIf the full impairment of intangible assets is not sufficient to reduce the carrying generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment value of the cash-generating unit to its recoverable amount, tangible fixed assets annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be must then be reviewed for impairment.
If the recoverable amount of tangible fixed impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the assets exceeds their carrying value, no further impairment is required.
An carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
On disposal of a subsidiary or jointly-controlled entity, the carrying value of any Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset attributable goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying Other intangible assets amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been Brands recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an Internally generated brands are not capitalised.
impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset Their values are calculated based on the Groups valuation methodology, which is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is based on valuations of discounted cash flows.
Brands are stated at cost, less is treated as a revaluation increase.
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Software development costs Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software controlled by the Group, and that generate economic benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over three to five 62 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued years from the time of implementation, and are stated at cost less accumulated 1.
Significant accounting policies continued is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Financial instruments in reserves is transferred to the income statement for the period.
Income and Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance Property, plant and equipment Customer deposits expense items are translated at an appropriate average rate for the year.
Exchange sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, Customer deposits are recorded as a liability within other payables on receipt differences arising are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups the instrument.
or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance sheet at cost less and released to the income statement as revenue upon legal completion.
Freehold land Trade receivables and other receivables expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Trade receivables on normal terms excluding derivative financial instruments Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by Plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation.
Depreciation is charged so of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing appropriate allowances for estimated unrecoverable amounts.
Trade receivables as to write off the cost or valuation of assets over their estimated useful lives.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the rate.
The Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on extended terms, particularly in respect of land, are measured at amortised cost Depreciation is charged, where material, on buildings over the expected useful life expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date and are on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS as assets and liabilities using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is of the asset.
Other assets are depreciated using the straight-line method, on the discounted to present value where the effect is material.
denominated in the functional currency of the company in which they arose.
recognised by applying the effective interest rate.
Derivative financial instruments following bases: are measured at fair value.
Inventories The Group enters into forward contracts in order to hedge its exposure to certain Plant, fixtures and equipment 20-25%: and computer equipment 33%.
Inventories are initially stated at cost or at the fair value at acquisition date when foreign exchange transaction risks relating to the functional currency in Financial liabilities and equity instruments acquired as part of a business combination and then held at the lower of this initial accordance with Group policy.
It also uses foreign currency borrowings and The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance amount and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where currency swaps to hedge its net investment exposure to certain overseas as the difference between the sale proceeds, less any selling expenses, and the of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in subsidiaries see below for details of the Groups accounting policies in respect carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value of such derivative financial instruments.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Operating leases At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Land is recognised in and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those Borrowings inventory when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been The Group as lessee assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, transferred to the Group.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable and Non-refundable land option payments are initially recognised in inventory.
They are the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals costs paid and payable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also reviewed regularly and written off to the income statement when it is not probable independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the basis to the income statement using the effective interest method and are added spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
that they will be exercised.
to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in Goodwill the period in which they arise.
Taxation Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition The tax charge represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their Trade payables over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at their Current tax of a subsidiary, joint venture, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for nominal value.
Trade payables on extended terms, particularly in respect of land, are The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of the asset to which they relate.
differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill which is The discount to nominal value is amortised over the period of the credit term and items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying charged to finance costs.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively subsequently reversed.
If the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting enacted by the balance sheet date.
its carrying amount, impairment losses are allocated first to the intangible assets The Group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge transactions denominated For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash-generating in the cash-generating unit.
The Group also uses foreign currency borrowings and Deferred tax units.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units that are expected currency swaps to hedge its net investment exposure to movements in exchange Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
CashIf the full impairment of intangible assets is not sufficient to reduce the carrying rates on translation of certain individual financial statements denominated in the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment value of the cash-generating unit to its recoverable amount, tangible fixed assets foreign currencies other than Sterling which is the functional currency of the parent corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be must then be reviewed for impairment.
If the recoverable amount of tangible fixed Company.
Interest rate derivatives are used to manage interest rate risk in respect for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally impaired.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant speculative purposes.
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial effective as hedges of net investments in foreign operations are recognised directly On disposal of a subsidiary or jointly-controlled entity, the carrying value of any Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a in reserves and the ineffective portion, if any, is recognised immediately in the attributable goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying Other intangible assets Deferred tax liabilities are also recognised for taxable temporary differences arising amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value, the hedged item on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the Brands recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable Internally generated brands are not capitalised.
impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset corresponding entry in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Gains or losses from that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Their values are calculated based on the Groups valuation methodology, which is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss remeasuring the derivative, or for non-derivatives the foreign currency component is based on valuations of discounted cash flows.
of its carrying amount, are also recognised in the income statement.
Deferred taxation is measured on a non-discounted basis using the tax rates and accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
laws that have then been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for Software development costs hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, software controlled by the Group, and that generate economic benefits beyond terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Computer software development any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in reserves is costs recognised as assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over three to five retained in reserves until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction 63 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date The determination of whether goodwill and other intangible assets are impaired and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is the asset has been allocated.
The value in use calculation involves significant charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items judgement including an estimate of the future cash flows expected to arise from charged or credited directly to reserves, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt the cash-generating unit, the future growth rate of revenue and costs, and a with in reserves.
Impairment of goodwill may not be reversed.
If the current weak trading conditions reverse, the impairment provision relating to other Share-based payments intangible assets may reverse in part or in whole.
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all Pensions grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of The value of plan assets and liabilities is determined based on various long term 1 January 2005. actuarial assumptions, including future rates of inflation, salary growth, yields, returns on investments and mortality rates.
Changes in these assumptions over The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
time and differences to the actual outcome will be reflected in the Groups Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Note 21 details the main assumptions in grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, accounting for the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest after adjusting for the effect of non-market vesting conditions.
Tax and deferred tax Aspects of tax accounting require management judgement and interpretation of Employee benefits tax legislation across many jurisdictions, in some cases relating to items which The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits under IAS 19 Employee may not be resolved with the relevant tax authority for many years.
In respect of defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst plan assets are recorded at fair value.
The In determining the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets, management is operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised separately in the required to assess the timing of the utilisation of provisions for tax purposes and income statement: service costs are spread systematically over the lives of whether it is probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to enable the employees: and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of Going concern comprehensive income.
The ability of the Taylor Wimpey plc group the Group to continue as a going Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as they concern is reliant upon the continued availability of external debt financing.
Group renegotiated and signed its new financing agreements on 14December 2010.
The Group has met all interest and other payment obligations on time from Key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical debt resources available to it, and after reviewing forecasts and certain relevant accounting judgements sensitivities for a period of at least 12 months from the date of signing these Estimation of costs to complete financial statements, the Directors are satisfied that, whilst the economic and In order to determine the profit that the Group is able to recognise on the market conditions continue to be challenging and not without risk, the refinancing proportion of completions for the period, internal site valuations are carried out package is sufficiently robust as to adequacy of both facility and covenant for each development at regular intervals throughout the year.
The valuations will headroom to enable the Group to operate within its terms for at least the next include an estimation of the costs to complete and remaining revenues which may 12 months.
Accordingly the consolidated financial statements have been prepared differ from the actual costs incurred and revenues received on completion.
Carrying value of land and work in progress Adoption of new and revised Standards and Interpretations The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted In order to assess the appropriateness of the carrying value of land and work in in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the progress, the Group is required to make estimations of sales prices, costs and amounts reported in these financial statements but may impact the accounting margins expected on sites in order to determine whether any write downs or for future transactions and arrangements.
reversals are required to ensure inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Given the continued volatility in market conditions experienced IAS 39 Amendment Eligible hedged items effective from 1 July 2009. from 2007, the Group has again undertaken a detailed review on a site-by-site The amendment to the Standard was endorsed by the European Union on basis of the net realisable value of its land and work in progress.
The amendment requires that inflation may only be hedged Group has written down the value of its land and work in progress in North if changes in inflation are a contractually specified portion of cash flows of a America, and Spain by net 24.8 million 2009: 527.0 million, as shown in Note 5. recognised financial instrument.
The amendment also permits an entity to While market conditions have stabilised in our major geographic locations, the designate purchased options as a hedging instrument in a hedge of a financial Group has not recorded any other reversals of net realisable value as there is no or non-financial item.
clear evidence of a sustained change in the economic circumstances at the IFRS 1 revised First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards balance sheet date.
The objective of the revised version of IFRS 1 is to Gross profit includes a positive contribution of 122.4 million 2009: 59.6 million, improve the structure of the Standard no new or revised technical material has relating to realisation of written down inventory above its originally estimated net been introduced.
realisable value, where the combination of selling prices and cost, or mix improvements have exceeded our original market assumptions.
These amounts are stated before the allocation of overhead excluded from the Groups net realisable value exercise.
64 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date The determination of whether goodwill and other intangible assets are impaired IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations, IAS 27 revised Consolidated and At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which Separate Financial Statements, and IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
The value in use calculation involves significant effective from 1 July 2009.
The revisions include a greater emphasis on the use issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items judgement including an estimate of the future cash flows expected to arise from of fair value, focusing on changes in control as a significant economic event and IFRS 9 Financial instruments.
Covers the classification and measurement of charged or credited directly to reserves, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt the cash-generating unit, the future growth rate of revenue and costs, and a focusing on what is given to the vendor as consideration.
financial assets and is the first part in the project to replace IAS 39. with in reserves.
If the current IAS 32 Amendment Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of weak trading conditions reverse, the impairment provision relating to other IAS 24 amended Related party disclosures.
Clarifies and simplifies the definition of a Share-based payments Financial Statements effective from 1 January 2010.
Relevant for companies that intangible assets may reverse in part or in whole.
related party and will require certain entities to make additional disclosures.
The The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payments.
have puttable financial instruments or instruments, or components of instruments, amendment is not expected to have any impact on the Groups financial statements.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all Pensions that impose an obligation on the entity to deliver to another party a pro-rata share grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of The value of plan assets and liabilities is determined based on various long term of net assets on liquidation only.
IAS 32 amended Financial instruments presentation.
Classification of Rights 1 January 2005. actuarial assumptions, including future rates of inflation, salary growth, yields, issue, where offered for a fixed amount of foreign currency, these should be IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners.
IFRIC 17 requires that returns on investments and mortality rates.
Changes in these assumptions over classified as equity.
The amendment is not expected to have any impact on the The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
distributions of non-cash assets to owners should be recognised and measured at time and differences to the actual outcome will be reflected in the Groups Groups financial statements.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of the fair value of the non-cash assets when the dividend is appropriately authorised, Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, and that the difference between the carrying amount of the assets distributed and IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities and equity instruments.
Requires that accounting for the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest after adjusting the dividend payable should be recognised in profit or loss on settlement of the where a debtor issues equity instruments to a creditor to settle all or part of a for the effect of non-market vesting conditions.
Tax and deferred tax dividend payable.
financial liability, these instruments should be deemed fully paid and measured at Aspects of tax accounting require management judgement and interpretation of the fair value of the liability extinguished.
The amendment is not expected to have Employee benefits IFRIC 18 Transfer of assets from customers.
IFRIC 18 clarifies the requirements tax legislation across many jurisdictions, in some cases relating to items which any impact on the Groups financial statements.
The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits under IAS 19 Employee of IFRSs for agreements where an entity receives assets or cash to provide a may not be resolved with the relevant tax authority for many years.
In respect of defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at customer with ongoing access to goods or supplies.
IFRIC 14 amended Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement.
These discounted present value whilst plan assets are recorded at fair value.
The In determining the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets, management is amendments correct an unintended consequence of IFRIC 14 where in some The following amendments were made as part of Improvements to IFRSs 2009. operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised separately in the required to assess the timing of the utilisation of provisions for tax purposes and circumstances entities are not entitled to recognise as an asset some voluntary Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in income statement: service costs are spread systematically over the lives of whether it is probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to enable the prepayments for minimum funding contributions.
This was not intended when these financial statements but may impact the accounting for future transactions employees: and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of Going concern The adoption of IFRS 9 which the Group plans to adopt for the year beginning comprehensive income.
Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
IFRS 2 has been amended, The ability of the Taylor Wimpey plc group the Group to continue as a going on 1 January 2013 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of following the issue of IFRS 3 2008, to confirm that the contribution of a business Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as they concern is reliant upon the continued availability of external debt financing.
on the formation of a joint venture and common control transactions are not within fall due.
Group renegotiated and signed its new financing agreements on 14December the scope of IFRS 2.
The directors do not expect that the adoption of the other Standards listed above 2010.
The Group has met all interest and other payment obligations on time from Key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
debt resources available to it, and after reviewing forecasts and certain relevant Amendment to IAS 17 Leases.
IAS 17 has been amended such that it may be accounting judgements sensitivities for a period of at least 12 months from the date of signing these possible to classify a lease of land as a finance lease if it meets the criteria for that 2.
General information Estimation of costs to complete financial statements, the Directors are satisfied that, whilst the economic and classification under IAS 17.
Taylor Wimpey plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the In order to determine the profit that the Group is able to recognise on the market conditions continue to be challenging and not without risk, the refinancing Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The address of the registered office is given on page 111. proportion of completions for the period, internal site valuations are carried out package is sufficiently robust as to adequacy of both facility and covenant has been amended to state that options contracts between an acquirer and a selling The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in for each development at regular intervals throughout the year.
The valuations will headroom to enable the Group to operate within its terms for at least the next shareholder to buy or sell an acquiree that will result in a business combination at a Note 4 and in the Chief Executives Review on pages 8 to 13. include an estimation of the costs to complete and remaining revenues which may 12 months.
Accordingly the consolidated financial statements have been prepared future acquisition date are not excluded from the scope of the standard.
differ from the actual costs incurred and revenues received on completion.
These financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Carrying value of land and work in progress Adoption of new and revised Standards and Interpretations Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policy set out on The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted In order to assess the appropriateness of the carrying value of land and work in pages 61 to 62. in the current year.
65 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: million 2010 2009 Housing 2,583.1 2,527.4 Land sales 20.2 58.3 Other revenues including Construction 9.9 Consolidated revenue 2,603.3 2,595.6 Interest receivable 3.8 10.6 Total Group 2,607.1 2,606.2 Housing revenue includes 128.0 million 2009: 114.5 million in respect of the value of properties accepted in part exchange by the Group.
Operating segments IFRS 8 Operating segments requires information to be presented in the same basis as it is reviewed internally.
The Groups Board of Directors view the businesses on a geographic basis when making strategic decisions for the Group and as such the Group is organised into four operating divisions Housing United Kingdom, Housing North America, Housing Spain and Gibraltar, and Corporate.
In 2009, the results and net assets of a minor residual construction operation, which was disposed of in April 2009, are presented within the Corporate segment.
Segment information about these businesses is presented below: Housing Housing Housing For the year to 31 December 2010 United North Spain and million Kingdom America Gibraltar Corporate Consolidated Revenue: External sales 1,736.6 835.6 31.1 2,603.3 Result: Operating profit loss before joint ventures and exceptional items 123.3 83.6 3.6 19.1 184.2 Share of results of joint ventures 0.3 10.2 9.9 Profit loss on ordinary activities before finance costs, exceptional items and after share of results of joint ventures 123.0 93.8 3.6 19.1 194.1 Exceptional items 7.5 17.3 38.2 63.0 Profit loss on ordinary activities before finance costs, after share of results of joint ventures 123.0 86.3 20.9 57.3 131.1 Finance costs, net including exceptional finance costs 202.4 Loss on ordinary activities before taxation 71.3 Taxation including exceptional tax 330.6 Profit for the year total Group 259.3 66 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Operating segments continued Housing Housing Housing An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: At 31 December 2010 United North Spain and million Kingdom America Gibraltar Corporate Consolidated million 2010 2009 Assets and liabilities: Housing 2,583.1 2,527.4 Land sales 20.2 58.3 Segment operating assets 2,719.4 884.7 82.6 10.3 3,697.0 Other revenues including Construction 9.9 Joint ventures 33.7 15.8 0.2 49.7 Segment operating liabilities 1,124.5 287.8 12.9 75.0 1,500.2 Consolidated revenue 2,603.3 2,595.6 Continuing Group net operating assets liabilities 1,628.6 612.7 69.9 64.7 2,246.5 Interest receivable 3.8 10.6 Goodwill 2.4 Total Group 2,607.1 2,606.2 Net current taxation 142.9 Housing revenue includes 128.0 million 2009: 114.5 million in respect of the value of properties accepted in part exchange by the Group.
Net deferred taxation 371.6 Net debt 654.5 4.
Operating segments Net assets 1,823.1 IFRS 8 Operating segments requires information to be presented in the same basis as it is reviewed internally.
Housing Housing Housing 2010 United North Spain and In 2009, the results and net assets of a minor residual construction operation, which was disposed of in April 2009, are presented within the Corporate segment.
million Kingdom America Gibraltar Corporate Consolidated Segment information about these businesses is presented below: Other information: Property, plant and equipment additions 1.7 1.9 0.1 3.7 Housing Housing Housing For the year to 31 December 2010 United North Spain and Software development costs 1.0 1.0 million Kingdom America Gibraltar Corporate Consolidated Depreciation plant and equipment 2.2 1.9 0.2 4.3 Revenue: 2009 segment information about these businesses is presented below: External sales 1,736.6 835.6 31.1 2,603.3 Result: Housing Housing Housing For the year to 31 December 2009 United North Spain and Operating profit loss before joint ventures and exceptional items 123.3 83.6 3.6 19.1 184.2 million Kingdom America Gibraltar Corporate Consolidated Share of results of joint ventures 0.3 10.2 9.9 Revenue: Profit loss on ordinary activities before finance costs, exceptional items and after External sales 1,700.4 824.3 61.0 9.9 2,595.6 share of results of joint ventures 123.0 93.8 3.6 19.1 194.1 Exceptional items 7.5 17.3 38.2 63.0 Result: Profit loss on ordinary activities before finance costs, after share of results Operating profit loss before joint ventures and exceptional items 15.3 41.5 1.4 17.7 37.7 of joint ventures 123.0 86.3 20.9 57.3 131.1 Share of results of joint ventures 1.0 6.6 5.6 Finance costs, net including exceptional finance costs 202.4 Profit loss on ordinary activities before finance costs, exceptional items Loss on ordinary activities before taxation 71.3 and after share of results of joint ventures 14.3 48.1 1.4 17.7 43.3 Taxation including exceptional tax 330.6 Exceptional items 452.8 79.8 3.3 44.8 580.7 Profit for the year total Group 259.3 Loss on ordinary activities before finance costs, after share of results of joint ventures 438.5 31.7 4.7 62.5 537.4 Finance costs, net including exceptional finance costs 162.5 Loss on ordinary activities before taxation 699.9 Taxation including exceptional tax 59.3 Loss for the year total Group 640.6 67 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
Operating segments continued Housing Housing Housing At 31 December 2009 United North Spain and million Kingdom America Gibraltar Corporate Consolidated Assets and liabilities: Segment operating assets 2,865.4 805.4 124.5 11.6 3,806.9 Joint ventures 30.0 21.7 0.2 51.9 Segment operating liabilities 1,202.3 269.0 21.2 54.1 1,546.6 Net operating assets liabilities 1,693.1 558.1 103.5 42.5 2,312.2 Goodwill 2.4 Net current taxation 181.6 Net deferred taxation 118.8 Net debt 750.9 Net assets 1,500.9 Housing Housing Housing 2009 United North Spain and million Kingdom America Gibraltar Corporate Consolidated Other information: Property, plant and equipment additions 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.2 2.5 Depreciation plant and equipment 2.3 1.5 0.7 0.2 4.7 5.
Net operating expenses and profit on ordinary activities before finance costs million 2010 2009 Administration expenses 185.2 198.9 Net other income 5.5 6.4 Exceptional items 38.2 53.7 217.9 246.2 Net other income includes profits on the sale of property, plant and equipment and broker fees from mortgage origination services.
Exceptional items: million 2010 2009 Net land and work in progress write downs 24.8 527.0 Restructuring costs 6.5 8.9 Refinancing expenses 31.7 44.8 Exceptional items 63.0 580.7 Market conditions have stabilised in our major geographic locations, however there continues to be uncertainty in a small number of sub-locations due to continued scarcity of mortgage finance, unemployment and a significantly reduced buyer market.
The Group has completed its assessment on the carrying value of land and work in progress which has resulted in further land and work in progress net write downs of 24.8 million 31 December 2009: 527.0 million to the lower of cost and net realisable value.
During the year the Group reversed 1.3 million of write downs 2009: 29.8 million where managements estimates of the recoverable value for certain land and work in progress had improved.
This reversal is treated as exceptional income and netted off the exceptional charge.
Restructuring costs of 6.5 million are predominantly in relation to actions relating to the Groups review of strategic options with regards to the North American business.
Refinancing expenses of 31.7 million 31 December 2009: 44.8 million were predominantly fees payable to lenders and advisors in relation to the refinancing of the Groups debt which was completed on 14 December 2010.
Refinancing interest related breakage costs of 83.4 million 31 December 2009: 23.1 million are included within exceptional finance costs in the Consolidated Income Statement.
68 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements 5.
Net operating expenses and profit on ordinary activities before finance costs continued Profit on ordinary activities before financing costs for continuing operations has been arrived at after charging crediting : million 2010 2009 Cost of inventories recognised as expense in cost of sales, before write downs of inventories 2,129.9 2,244.1 Write downs of inventories 26.1 556.8 Reversal of specific write downs of inventories 1.3 29.8 Depreciation plant and equipment 4.3 4.7 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the year 8.1 7.5 The remuneration paid to Deloitte LLP, the Groups external auditors, is as follows: million 2010 2009 Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys annual accounts and consolidated financial statements 0.2 0.2 The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.6 Total audit fees 0.8 0.8 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 Tax services 0.7 0.6 Corporate finance services 0.4 Other services 2.0 0.5 Total non-audit fees 2.8 1.6 Total fees 3.6 2.4 Non-audit services in 2010 predominantly relate to work undertaken as a result of Deloitte LLPs role as auditors, or work resultant from knowledge and experience gained as part of the role.
Other services include necessary work related to the Groups refinancing process and certain attest services in relation to the interested party offers for the North American business.
Their work was either the subject of a competitive tender or was best performed by the Groups auditors because of their knowledge of the Group.
Tax services include tax compliance work and advisory services for Taylor Wimpey plc and subsidiaries.
See page 38 for details of the Groups policies in respect of non-audit services and approval by the Audit Committee.
Staff costs 2010 2009 Total Group Number Number Average number employed Housing United Kingdom including corporate office 3,484 3,469 Housing North America 731 849 Housing Spain and Gibraltar 85 102 Construction 334 4,300 4,754 United Kingdom 3,484 3,469 Overseas 816 1,285 4,300 4,754 The 2009 Construction staff numbers represent employees of the residual Construction businesses disposed of in April 2009. million 2010 2009 Remuneration Wages and salaries 191.5 203.6 Redundancy costs 1.1 2.0 Social security costs 20.2 18.5 Other pension costs 8.8 10.5 221.6 234.6 The information required by the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority is contained on pages 41 to 50 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
69 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7.
Tax continued Finance costs from continuing operations are analysed as follows: The credit for the year can be reconciled to the loss per the income statement as follows: million 2010 2009 million 2010 2009 Interest on overdrafts, bank and other loans 27.8 46.5 Loss before tax 71.3 699.9 Interest on debenture loans 58.0 62.6 Movement on interest rate derivatives and foreign exchange movements 4.6 11.8 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 28% 2009: 28% 20.0 196.0 90.4 97.3 Over provision in respect of prior years 85.9 3.4 Unwinding of discount on land creditors and other payables 9.0 18.4 Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 5.9 8.0 Notional net interest on pension liability Note 21 23.4 34.3 Non-taxable income 0.4 3.7 122.8 150.0 Effect of higher rates of tax of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 2.4 6.9 Exceptional finance costs: Losses not recognised 41.6 186.0 Bank loans and debenture fees and interest 83.4 23.1 Reinstatement of pension deferred tax asset 29.6 Recognition of deferred tax asset relating to trading losses 300.0 206.2 173.1 Current year impact of settlement with Tax Authorities 23.7 The exceptional finance costs incurred in 2010 relate to one-off interest related breakage payments following the early redemption of our loan notes, bonds and certain Temporary differences not recognised 6.9 13.7 arrangement fees associated with the new facilities.
Tax credit for the year 330.6 59.3 The 2009 exceptional finance costs include 5.5 million in relation to the fair value of 57.8 million warrants issued to the Groups lenders as part of the debt refinancing and 15.5 million of one-off interest payments payable to the Groups lenders as a consequence of early repayment of a portion of the Groups debt, following the 9.
Earnings per share equity raise.
Tax Diluted earnings loss per share 7.9p 25.1p Tax credited charged in the income statement for continuing operations is analysed as follows: million 2010 2009 Adjusted basic earnings loss per share 0.6p 4.3p Current tax: Adjusted diluted earnings loss per share 0.6p 4.3p UK corporation tax: Current year 0.8 1.1 Prior years 60.8 5.5 Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings loss per share million 3,193.8 2,551.8 Foreign tax: Current year 22.7 32.0 Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings loss per share million 3,297.6 2,551.8 Prior years 25.1 2.4 Weighted average number of shares for adjusted diluted earnings loss per share million 3,297.6 2,551.8 62.4 34.0 Adjusted basic and adjusted diluted earnings per share, which exclude the impact of exceptional items and the associated net tax charges, are shown to provide clarity Deferred tax: on the underlying performance of the Group.
A reconciliation of earnings attributable to equity shareholders used for basic and diluted earnings per share to that used for UK: Current year 269.4 25.4 adjusted earnings per share is shown below.
Foreign: Current year 1.2 0.4 million 2010 2009 Prior years 0.3 268.2 25.3 Earnings loss for basic loss per share and diluted earnings per share 259.3 640.4 330.6 59.3 Add exceptional items Notes 5 and 7 146.4 603.8 Deduct exceptional tax items Note 8 385.9 73.6 Corporation tax is calculated at 28% 2009: 28% of the estimated assessable loss 2009: loss for the year in the UK.
Taxation outside the UK is calculated at the rates Earnings loss for adjusted basic and adjusted diluted earnings per share 19.8 110.2 prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The tax credit for the year includes an amount in respect of exceptional items of 385.9 million 2009: 73.6 million credit.
This is made up of a credit of 360.8 million 10.
Goodwill 2009: 25.4 million in respect of UK tax and a credit of 25.1 million 2009: 48.2 million charge in respect of US tax.
The credit in the UK relates to the recognition of a million deferred tax asset of 300.0 million relating to trading losses carried forward, and the settlement of various issues with HM Revenue & Customs.
The credit in respect of Cost and carrying amount the US relates to progress made in relation to open issues with the Internal Revenue Service.
At 1 January 2009 Deferred tax recognised in the Groups Statement of Comprehensive Income is due to actuarial losses on post-retirement liabilities at the prevailing rate in the Additions 2.4 relevant jurisdiction and in 2009 the reinstatement of the deferred tax asset relating to postretirement liabilities.
At 31 December 2009 and 2010 2.4 In 2009 the North America business acquired the remaining stake in a mortgage advisory service which resulted in the recognition of 2.4 million of goodwill.
70 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7.
Finance costs 8 8.. Tax Tax con contin tinu ued ed Finance costs from continuing operations are analysed as follows: T Th he e cr cre ed dit it fo for r th the e y ye ea ar r ca can n be be r re ec co on nc ciille ed d to to t th he e llo oss ss pe per r t th he e iin nc co om me e st stat atem emen ent t a as s f fo ollllo ows: ws: million 2010 2009 mi millio llion n 201 2010 0 200 2009 9 Loss before tax 71.3 699.9 Interest on overdrafts, bank and other loans 27.8 46.5 Loss before tax 71.3 699.9 Interest on debenture loans 58.0 62.6 Movement on interest rate derivatives and foreign exchange movements 4.6 11.8 Tax Tax at at th the e U UK K corpo corporation ration t ta ax x ra rat te e of of 28% 28% 200 2009: 9: 28% 28% 20.0 20.0 196.0 196.0 90.4 97.3 Over Over pr provisio ovision n iin n r re esp spect ect of of pri prior or ye yea ars rs 85.9 85.9 3.4 3.4 Unwinding of discount on land creditors and other payables 9.0 18.4 Ta Tax x ef eff fe ect ct of of e ex xpen pens se es s th that at ar are e n no ot t d fide edu ductibl ctible e in in d fide et te ermin rminiin ng g t ta ax xa able ble p prof rofit it 5.9 5.9 8.0 8.0 Notional net interest on pension liability Note 21 23.4 34.3 Non-taxabl Non-taxable e in income come 0.4 0.4 3.7 3.7 122.8 150.0 Effect Effect of of high higher er rat rate es s of of t ta ax x of of s su ubsidi bsidia ari ries es o op per erating ating in in other other ju jurisdi risdic ction tions s 2.4 2.4 6.9 6.9 Exceptional finance costs: Losse Losses s not not re recognised cognised 41.6 41.6 186.0 186.0 Bank loans and debenture fees and interest 83.4 23.1 Rein Reinst state atem men ent t of of p pe en ns siio on n d fide ef fe err rred ed ta tax x ass asse et t 29.6 29.6 Reco Recognition gnition of of def defe erred rred tax tax asse asset t rel rela ating ting to to tradi tradin ng g lo losses sses 300.0 300.0 206.2 173.1 Cu Curr rren ent t ye year ar iim mpa pact ct of of s se ettl ttlement ement with with T Ta ax x Au Authoriti thoritie es s 23.7 23.7 The exceptional finance costs incurred in 2010 relate to one-off interest related breakage payments following the early redemption of our loan notes, bonds and certain Te Temporary mporary diff differe eren nce ces s no not t rec reco og gn nis ised ed 6.9 6.9 13.7 13.7 arrangement fees associated with the new facilities.
Tax credit for the year 330.6 59.3 Tax credit for the year 330.6 59.3 The 2009 exceptional finance costs include 5.5 million in relation to the fair value of 57.8 million warrants issued to the Groups lenders as part of the debt refinancing and 15.5 million of one-off interest payments payable to the Groups lenders as a consequence of early repayment of a portion of the Groups debt, following the 9.
Earning gs s pe per share r share equity raise.
201 2010 0 200 2009 9 Basic earnings loss per share 8.1p 25.1p Basic earnings loss per share 8.1p 25.1p 8.
Tax Diluted earnings loss per share 7.9p 25.1p Diluted earnings loss per share 7.9p 25.1p Tax credited charged in the income statement for continuing operations is analysed as follows: million 2010 2009 Adjusted basic earnings loss per share 0.6p 4.3p Adjusted basic earnings loss per share 0.6p 4.3p Current tax: Adjusted diluted earnings loss per share 0.6p 4.3p Adjusted diluted earnings loss per share 0.6p 4.3p UK corporation tax: Current year 0.8 1.1 Prior years 60.8 5.5 Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings loss per share million 3,193.8 2,551.8 Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings loss per share million 3,193.8 2,551.8 Foreign tax: Current year 22.7 32.0 Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings loss per share million 3,297.6 2,551.8 Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings loss per share million 3,297.6 2,551.8 Prior years 25.1 2.4 Weighted average number of shares for adjusted diluted earnings loss per share million 3,297.6 2,551.8 Weighted average number of shares for adjusted diluted earnings loss per share million 3,297.6 2,551.8 62.4 34.0 Adj Adju usted sted basi basic c and and adj adju usted sted dil dilu uted ted earni earning ngs s per per share, share, whi whic ch h excl exclude ude th the e iim mpact pact of of excepti exceptiona onall iit tem ems s and and the the associ associated ated net net ta tax x charges, charges, are are shown shown to to provide provide cl clari arit ty y Deferred tax: on on the the under underlly ying ing performance performance of of th the e Group.
A A reconc reconciilliia ati tion on of of earnings earnings attri attrib butabl utable e to to e eq quity uity sharehol shareholders ders used used for for basi basic c and and di diluted luted earni earning ngs s per per share share to to that that used used for for UK: Current year 269.4 25.4 adj adju usted sted earni earnings ngs per per share share iis s shown shown bel belo ow.
w. Foreign: Current year 1.2 0.4 mi millio llion n 201 2010 0 200 2009 9 Prior years 0.3 Earnings loss for basic loss per share and diluted earnings per share 259.3 640.4 268.2 25.3 Earnings loss for basic loss per share and diluted earnings per share 259.3 640.4 Add exceptional items Notes 5 and 7 146.4 603.8 330.6 59.3 Add exceptional items Notes 5 and 7 146.4 603.8 Deduct exceptional tax items Note 8 385.9 73.6 Deduct exceptional tax items Note 8 385.9 73.6 Corporation tax is calculated at 28% 2009: 28% of the estimated assessable loss 2009: loss for the year in the UK.
Taxation outside the UK is calculated at the rates Earnings loss for adjusted basic and adjusted diluted earnings per share 19.8 110.2 Earnings loss for adjusted basic and adjusted diluted earnings per share 19.8 110.2 prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The credit in the UK relates to the recognition of a million million deferred tax asset of 300.0 million relating to trading losses carried forward, and the settlement of various issues with HM Revenue & Customs.
The credit in respect of Cost Cost and and ca carr rryi ying ng amo amount unfit the US relates to progress made in relation to open issues with the Internal Revenue Service.
At At 1 1 Ja January nuary 20 2009 09 Deferred tax recognised in the Groups Statement of Comprehensive Income is due to actuarial losses on post-retirement liabilities at the prevailing rate in the Addition Additions s 2.4 2.4 relevant jurisdiction and in 2009 the reinstatement of the deferred tax asset relating to postretirement liabilities.
At 31 December 2009 and 2010 2.4 At 31 December 2009 and 2010 2.4 In In 2009 2009 the the North North America America business business acquired acquired the the remaining remaining stake stake in in a a mortgage mortgage advisory advisory service service wh which ich re resulted sulted in in the the recognit recognitio ion n of of 2.4 2.4 m miill lliion on of of goodwill goodwill.. 71 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 70 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
Other intangible assets Software development million Brands costs Total Cost At 1 January 2010 140.2 18.7 158.9 Additions 1.0 1.0 At 31 December 2010 140.2 19.7 159.9 Amortisation impairment At 1 January 2010 140.2 18.7 158.9 Charge for the year At 31 December 2010 140.2 18.7 158.9 Carrying amount 31 December 2010 1.0 1.0 31 December 2009 The Group is required to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or sooner when there are indicators that it might be impaired, and to test other intangible assets for impairment if there are indications that the assets might be impaired.
The Group has evaluated its performance in the current year and concluded that it would not be appropriate to reverse any of the previously recognised impairment charges.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold land Plant and million and buildings equipment Total Cost At 1 January 2009 1.5 60.8 62.3 Additions 2.5 2.5 Disposals 0.4 35.9 36.3 Changes in exchange rates 0.1 1.2 1.3 At 31 December 2009 1.0 26.2 27.2 Additions 3.7 3.7 Disposals 4.7 4.7 Changes in exchange rates 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2010 1.0 25.5 26.5 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2009 46.8 46.8 Disposals 31.6 31.6 Charge for the year 4.7 4.7 Changes in exchange rates 0.9 0.9 At 31 December 2009 19.0 19.0 Disposals 4.7 4.7 Charge for the year 4.3 4.3 Changes in exchange rates 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2010 18.9 18.9 Carrying amount Freehold land Plant and million and buildings equipment Total At 31 December 2010 1.0 6.6 7.6 At 31 December 2009 1.0 7.2 8.2 72 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
Interests in joint ventures Software million 2010 2009 development million Brands costs Total Aggregated amounts relating to share of joint ventures Cost Non-current assets At 1 January 2010 140.2 18.7 158.9 Current assets 60.0 63.5 Additions 1.0 1.0 Total assets 60.0 63.5 At 31 December 2010 140.2 19.7 159.9 Current liabilities 2.7 10.6 Amortisation impairment Non-current liabilities 36.0 27.6 At 1 January 2010 140.2 18.7 158.9 Total liabilities 38.7 38.2 Charge for the year At 31 December 2010 140.2 18.7 158.9 Carrying amount 21.3 25.3 Carrying amount Loans to joint ventures 28.4 26.6 31 December 2010 1.0 1.0 Total interests in joint ventures 49.7 51.9 31 December 2009 The Group is required to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or sooner when there are indicators that it might be impaired, and to test other intangible assets million 2010 2009 for impairment if there are indications that the assets might be impaired.
Share of post-tax profits from joint ventures Revenue 21.4 16.3 The Group has evaluated its performance in the current year and concluded that it would not be appropriate to reverse any of the previously recognised impairment charges.
Property, plant and equipment Gross profit 9.9 6.3 Freehold land Plant and Net operating expenses 0.6 million and buildings equipment Total Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs 9.9 5.7 Cost Finance costs At 1 January 2009 1.5 60.8 62.3 Profit on ordinary activities before tax 9.9 5.7 Additions 2.5 2.5 Taxation 0.1 Disposals 0.4 35.9 36.3 Share of joint ventures post-tax results for the year 9.9 5.6 Changes in exchange rates 0.1 1.2 1.3 At 31 December 2009 1.0 26.2 27.2 The Group has three 2009: three principal joint ventures.
Additions 3.7 3.7 Particulars of principal joint ventures are as follows: Disposals 4.7 4.7 Taylor Wimpey plc Changes in exchange rates 0.3 0.3 Name of joint venture equity accounted interest in the issued At 31 December 2010 1.0 25.5 26.5 Country of incorporation in the consolidated accounts ordinary share capital a Great Britain Strada Developments Limited 50% Accumulated depreciation a b Academy Central Limited Liability Partnership 62% At 1 January 2009 46.8 46.8 a USA Taylor Woodrow Communities Steiner Ranch Limited 50% Disposals 31.6 31.6 a Interest held by subsidiary undertakings.
Charge for the year 4.7 4.7 b The Group is equally represented on the Board of Academy Central Limited Liability Partnership.
It and the other partner have equal voting rights over operational management of the entity.
Changes in exchange rates 0.9 0.9 At 31 December 2009 19.0 19.0 Disposals 4.7 4.7 Charge for the year 4.3 4.3 Changes in exchange rates 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2010 18.9 18.9 Carrying amount Freehold land Plant and million and buildings equipment Total At 31 December 2010 1.0 6.6 7.6 At 31 December 2009 1.0 7.2 8.2 73 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14.
Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting year.
Capital Short term timing Retirement benefit million Losses allowances differences obligations Total At 1 January 2009 1.3 6.6 5.3 Credit charge to income 0.1 1.9 27.1 25.3 Credit to equity 87.6 87.6 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.4 0.4 Changes in exchange rates 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2009 0.8 4.9 114.7 118.8 Credit charge to income 300.0 1.2 30.6 268.2 Charged to equity 15.9 15.9 Changes in exchange rates 0.4 0.1 0.5 At 31 December 2010 300.0 0.8 4.1 68.3 371.6 In 2009 the Group reinstated the deferred tax asset relating to the pension deficit, including 47.2 million written off in the prior year, on the basis that the deficit is a long term liability of circa 15 years that will be satisfied from future profitability.
Closing deferred tax on UK temporary differences has been calculated at the substantively enacted rate of 27% 2009: 28%.
The effect of the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 28% to 27% is a reduction in the net deferred tax asset at the end of 2010 of an amount of 2.4 million.
Of this 2.4 million, 0.4 million has been charged directly to the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The proposed reduction in the main rate of corporation tax by 1% per year to 24% is expected to be enacted separately each year.
The Group will assess the impact of the reduction in rate in line with its accounting policy in respect of deferred tax at each balance sheet date.
The net deferred tax balance is analysed into assets and liabilities as follows: million 2010 2009 Deferred tax assets 372.4 119.6 Deferred tax liabilities 0.8 0.8 371.6 118.8 At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused UK capital losses of 253.0 million 2009: 409.2 million, of which 253.0 million 2009: 271.7 million are agreed as available for offset against future capital profits.
During the year the Group conceded a significant proportion of capital losses as part of a wider settlement agreement with HM Revenue & Customs.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining capital losses at 31 December 2010 because the Group does not believe that it is probable that these capital losses will be utilised in the foreseeable future.
In addition, some of the capital losses would be further restricted as to offset dependent on the source within the Taylor Wimpey Group of any gains and previous losses.
The Group has not recognised potential deferred tax assets relating to inventory charges and tax losses carried forward amounting to 78.6 million 2009: 375.1 million in the UK, 268.8 million 2009: 267.0 million in the US and 29.8 million 2009: 21.4 million in other jurisdictions.
Local tax legislation permits losses to be carried forward 20 years in the US, 15 years in Spain and indefinitely in the UK.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses were also utilised as part of the settlement negotiations with HM Revenue & Customs during the period.
Inventories million 2010 2009 Raw materials and consumables 1.7 1.6 Finished goods and goods for resale 19.4 12.1 Residential developments: Land 2,248.4 2,341.8 Development and construction costs 1,159.6 1,242.8 Commercial, industrial and mixed development properties 7.1 5.0 3,436.2 3,603.3 Details of land creditors are in Note 19.
The Directors consider all inventories to be current in nature.
The operational cycle is such that the majority of inventory will not be realised within 12 months.
It is not possible to determine with accuracy when specific inventory will be realised, as this will be subject to a number of issues such as consumer demand and planning permission delays.
Non-refundable land option payments of 79.0 million 2009: 81.2 million are recorded within Residential developments: Land.
Gross profit includes a positive contribution of 122.4 million 2009: 59.6 million, relating to realisation of written down inventory above its originally estimated net realisable value, where the combination of selling prices and cost, or mix improvements have exceeded our original market assumptions.
74 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14.
Other financial assets The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting year.
Trade and other receivables Current Non-current Capital Short term timing Retirement benefit million 2010 2009 2010 2009 million Losses allowances differences obligations Total At 1 January 2009 1.3 6.6 5.3 Trade receivables 94.0 77.3 74.8 48.0 Credit charge to income 0.1 1.9 27.1 25.3 Currency and interest rate derivatives 6.2 11.1 Credit to equity 87.6 87.6 Other receivables 61.7 53.2 15.5 5.9 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.4 0.4 155.7 130.5 96.5 65.0 Changes in exchange rates 0.2 0.2 The average credit period taken on sales is 16 days 2009: 13 days.
An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from trade receivables of 8.3 At 31 December 2009 0.8 4.9 114.7 118.8 million 2009: 7.0 million.
This allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience.
Credit charge to income 300.0 1.2 30.6 268.2 Cash and cash equivalents Charged to equity 15.9 15.9 million 2010 2009 Changes in exchange rates 0.4 0.1 0.5 Cash and cash equivalents see Note 20 183.9 132.1 At 31 December 2010 300.0 0.8 4.1 68.3 371.6 Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of In 2009 the Group reinstated the deferred tax asset relating to the pension deficit, including 47.2 million written off in the prior year, on the basis that the deficit is a long these assets approximates their fair value in both years.
term liability of circa 15 years that will be satisfied from future profitability.
The effect of the reduction in the UK 17.
Overdrafts, bank and other loans corporation tax rate from 28% to 27% is a reduction in the net deferred tax asset at the end of 2010 of an amount of 2.4 million.
Of this 2.4 million, 0.4 million has million 2010 2009 been charged directly to the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Bank overdrafts repayable on demand 12.1 12.7 The proposed reduction in the main rate of corporation tax by 1% per year to 24% is expected to be enacted separately each year.
The Group will assess the impact of Bank loans 476.3 148.4 the reduction in rate in line with its accounting policy in respect of deferred tax at each balance sheet date.
Other loans 100.0 The net deferred tax balance is analysed into assets and liabilities as follows: 588.4 161.1 million 2010 2009 Amount due for settlement within one year 15.1 12.7 Deferred tax assets 372.4 119.6 Amount due for settlement after one year 573.3 148.4 Deferred tax liabilities 0.8 0.8 Total bank borrowings 588.4 161.1 371.6 118.8 At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused UK capital losses of 253.0 million 2009: 409.2 million, of which 253.0 million 2009: 271.7 million are agreed as Bank Bank and available for offset against future capital profits.
During the year the Group conceded a significant proportion of capital losses as part of a wider settlement agreement million overdraft other loans with HM Revenue & Customs.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining capital losses at 31 December 2010 because the Group does not Analysis of borrowings by currency: believe that it is probable that these capital losses will be utilised in the foreseeable future.
In addition, some of the capital losses would be further restricted as to offset 31 December 2010 dependent on the source within the Taylor Wimpey Group of any gains and previous losses.
Sterling 152.0 The Group has not recognised potential deferred tax assets relating to inventory charges and tax losses carried forward amounting to 78.6 million 2009: 375.1 million Canadian dollars 12.1 in the UK, 268.8 million 2009: 267.0 million in the US and 29.8 million 2009: 21.4 million in other jurisdictions.
Local tax legislation permits losses to be carried Euros 97.4 forward 20 years in the US, 15 years in Spain and indefinitely in the UK.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses were also utilised as part of the settlement US dollars 326.9 negotiations with HM Revenue & Customs during the period.
Inventories 31 December 2009 Sterling 41.2 million 2010 2009 Canadian dollars 12.7 Raw materials and consumables 1.7 1.6 Euros 107.2 Finished goods and goods for resale 19.4 12.1 12.7 148.4 Residential developments: Land 2,248.4 2,341.8 Bank borrowings and overdrafts are arranged at floating rates of interest, from 2.5% to 6.0% 2009: 3% to 4%.
Development and construction costs 1,159.6 1,242.8 Secured bank loans and overdrafts outstanding totalled 15.1 million 2009: 12.7 million.
Secured bank loans and overdrafts are secured on certain fixed asset Commercial, industrial and mixed development properties 7.1 5.0 properties, land and mortgages receivable.
3,436.2 3,603.3 Other loans comprise of a 100.0 million bi-lateral variable rate fixed loan with an investment fund.
Details of land creditors are in Note 19.
75 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18.
a The descriptions presented above refer to the titles of the debenture loan issues at their original issue date.
As a result of negotiations concluding in April 2009 the terms of the debentures were changed such that they were either extended to mature on 3 July 2012 or capable of being repaid early on the same date.
As a result of the refinancing in December 2010 these have been fully repaid.
million 2010 2009 Repayable Total falling due in more than one year 250.0 721.9 250.0 721.9 Interest rates and currencies of debenture loans: Weighted Weighted average average time Fixed rate interest rate until maturity million % years 31 December 2010 Sterling 250.0 10.4 5.0 250.0 10.4 5.0 31 December 2009 Sterling 392.2 8.6 2.5 US dollars 329.7 8.1 2.5 721.9 8.3 2.5 As part of the Groups 250.0 million Senior Notes issued on 14 December 2010, disclosures of certain metrics are required to be annually presented, including the following: Net financial expense, considered to be the Groups interest on overdrafts, bank and other loans and interest on debenture loans less bank interest receivable was 85.8 million 2009: 17.7 million.
Interest coverage ratio, defined as profit on ordinary activities before finance costs and exceptional items over the net financial expense.
Net debt EBITDA defined as the Groups overdrafts, debenture, bank and other loans less cash and cash equivalents over Profit loss on ordinary activities before finance costs, exceptional items, depreciation and amortisation and after share of results of joint ventures.
76 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18.
Trade and other payables Current Non-current million 2010 2009 million 2010 2009 2010 2009 Unsecured Trade payables 374.5 249.7 175.9 203.7 10.375% 250m Senior Notes 2015 250.0 Joint ventures 1.3 a 9.00% US$35m notes 2009 15.2 Currency and interest rate derivatives 9.0 12.9 a 5.73% US$110m notes 2009 47.5 Other payables 519.4 496.1 81.2 74.9 a 5.53% US$75m notes 2011 38.0 902.9 760.0 257.1 278.6 a 6.625% 250m guaranteed bonds 2012 207.6 a 6.21% US$70m notes 2012 31.7 Trade payable days were 30 days 2009: 20 days, based on the ratio of year end trade payables excluding sub-contract retentions and unagreed claims of 34.4 million a 6.80% 30m notes 2012 22.0 2009: 35.3 million and land creditors to amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
a 4.72% US$28m notes 2013 12.5 Other payables include customer deposits for reserving plots of 83.8 million 2009: 91.5 million.
a 6.31% US$110m notes 2014 50.5 a Land creditors included within trade payables are due as follows: 6.03% US$175m notes 2014 90.0 million 2010 2009 a 4.98% US$38m notes 2015 16.9 a Due within one year 198.4 124.3 6.72% US$30m notes 2017 14.0 a Due in more than one year 170.8 201.4 5.29% US$30m notes 2018 13.4 a 369.2 325.7 6.375% 200m bonds 2019 162.6 Carrying value 250.0 721.9 Land creditors are denominated as follows: million 2010 2009 Fair value 261.2 681.9 Sterling 317.1 275.6 The fair value for all debenture loans has been derived from inputs that are observable for the liability either directly or indirectly, relevant for the term and currency.
US dollars 1.6 1.0 a The descriptions presented above refer to the titles of the debenture loan issues at their original issue date.
As a result of negotiations concluding in April 2009 the terms of the debentures Canadian dollars 47.2 38.6 were changed such that they were either extended to mature on 3 July 2012 or capable of being repaid early on the same date.
Euros 3.3 10.5 369.2 325.7 million 2010 2009 Repayable Land creditors of 160.2 million 2009: 195.0 million are secured against land acquired for development, or supported by bond or guarantee.
Total falling due in more than one year 250.0 721.9 250.0 721.9 Interest rates and currencies of debenture loans: Weighted Weighted average average time Fixed rate interest rate until maturity million % years 31 December 2010 Sterling 250.0 10.4 5.0 250.0 10.4 5.0 31 December 2009 Sterling 392.2 8.6 2.5 US dollars 329.7 8.1 2.5 721.9 8.3 2.5 As part of the Groups 250.0 million Senior Notes issued on 14 December 2010, disclosures of certain metrics are required to be annually presented, including the following: Net financial expense, considered to be the Groups interest on overdrafts, bank and other loans and interest on debenture loans less bank interest receivable was 85.8 million 2009: 17.7 million.
77 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Financial instruments Capital management The Groups objective is to obtain a strong credit rating for the business and to have an appropriate funding structure based on a minimum interest cover and maximum gearing.
Shareholders equity and long term debt are used to finance fixed assets and medium to long term land bank.
Revolving credit facilities are used to fund net current assets including work in progress and short term land.
As a result of the refinancing completed in December 2010 the Group now has a more appropriate blend of funding from both bank and non bank sources together with a staggered maturity profile to minimise refinancing risk.
Financial assets and financial liabilities Categories of financial assets and financial liabilities are as follows: 2010 2009 Financial assets Carrying Carrying million Note value value Cash and cash equivalents b 183.9 132.1 Derivative financial instruments: Designated as effective hedging instruments a 11.1 Held for trading a 6.2 Loans and receivables: Land receivables b 15.4 21.0 Trade and other receivables b 121.1 121.6 Mortgage receivables b 54.9 41.7 381.5 327.5 Land receivables and trade and other receivables are included in the balance sheet as trade and other receivables for current and non-current amounts.
Current and non-current trade and other receivables, as disclosed in Note 16, include 70.0 million 2009: 41.8 million of non-financial assets.
2010 2009 Financial liabilities Carrying Carrying million Note value value Derivative financial instruments: Designated as effective hedging instruments a Held for trading a 9.0 12.9 Amortised cost: Overdrafts, bank and other loans 588.4 161.1 Land creditors b 369.2 325.7 Trade and other payables b 571.6 577.8 Debenture loans c 250.0 721.9 1,788.2 1,799.4 Land creditors and trade and other payables are included in the balance sheet as trade and other payables for current and non-current amounts.
Current and non-current trade and other payables, as disclosed in Note 19, include 210.2 million 2009: 122.2 million of non-financial liabilities.
a Derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value.
The fair values are derived from inputs that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly and relevant for the term, currency and instrument.
b The Directors consider that the carrying amount of other financial assets and liabilities recorded in the financial statements approximates their fair values.
c Details of fair values of debenture loans are provided in Note 18.
78 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Financial instruments continued Capital management The Group has the following types of derivatives: The Groups objective is to obtain a strong credit rating for the business and to have an appropriate funding structure based on a minimum interest cover and maximum 2010 2010 2009 2009 gearing.
Revolving credit facilities are used to fund net Notional Weighted Notional Weighted amount average fixed amount average fixed current assets including work in progress and short term land.
Designated as held for trading: Floating to fixed interest 185.0m 5.28% 185.0m 5.28% Financial assets and financial liabilities US$160.5m floating US$ to fixed interest 100.0m 6.63% Categories of financial assets and financial liabilities are as follows: Designated as hedging instruments: 2010 2009 Financial assets US$160.5m floating US$ to fixed interest 100.0m 6.63% Carrying Carrying million Note value value In addition, forward contracts have been entered into to hedge transaction risks on intra-Group loans to buy against Sterling: C$192.0 million 2009: US$37 million, 2.5 Cash and cash equivalents b 183.9 132.1 million and C$54.5 million.
The fair values of the forward contracts are not material as they were entered into on or near 31 December in each year and mature not more Derivative financial instruments: than one month later.
The cross currency SWAP was fide-designated as hedging instruments following the early repayment of the fixed rate debenture in December 2010.
Designated as effective hedging instruments a 11.1 Loss before tax has been arrived at after charging crediting the following gains and losses: Held for trading a 6.2 million 2010 2009 Loans and receivables: Change in fair value of financial liabilities designated as effective hedged items 1.2 0.5 Land receivables b 15.4 21.0 Change in fair value of derivatives designated as effective hedging instruments 1.2 0.5 Trade and other receivables b 121.1 121.6 Change in fair value of derivatives classified as held for trading 2.5 2.1 Mortgage receivables b 54.9 41.7 2.5 2.1 381.5 327.5 Market risk Land receivables and trade and other receivables are included in the balance sheet as trade and other receivables for current and non-current amounts.
The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in both foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group aims to manage the exposure to Current and non-current trade and other receivables, as disclosed in Note 16, include 70.0 million 2009: 41.8 million of non-financial assets.
these risks by the use of fixed or floating rate borrowings, foreign currency borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
2010 2009 a Interest rate risk management Financial liabilities Carrying Carrying The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as the Group borrows funds at both fixed and floating interest rates.
The exposure to these borrowings varies during the year million Note value value due to the seasonal nature of cash flows relating to housing sales and the less certain timing of land payments.
A combination of fixed rate borrowings and interest rate Derivative financial instruments: swaps are used to manage the volatility risk such that at the year end, taking all interest rate derivatives into account, fixed rate borrowings are not more than 70% of Designated as effective hedging instruments a total borrowings but not less than 50%.
Group policy does not allow the use of derivatives to speculate against changes to future interest rates and they are only used to Held for trading a 9.0 12.9 manage exposure to volatility.
Amortised cost: In order to measure the risk, floating rate borrowings and the expected interest cost for the year are forecast on a monthly basis and compared to budget using Overdrafts, bank and other loans 588.4 161.1 managements expectations of a reasonably possible change in interest rates.
Interest expense volatility remained within acceptable limits throughout the year.
At the Land creditors b 369.2 325.7 year end the Group had 335.0 million 2009: 802.0 million of fixed rate exposure equivalent to 51% 2009: 107% of net debt.
Trade and other payables b 571.6 577.8 Hedge accounting Debenture loans c 250.0 721.9 Hedging activities are evaluated periodically to ensure that they are in line with Group policy.
1,788.2 1,799.4 The cross currency, fixed to floating interest rate swaps have been bifurcated for hedging purposes and designated as fair value hedges such that the Group receives Land creditors and trade and other payables are included in the balance sheet as trade and other payables for current and non-current amounts.
interest at a fixed rate of 6.625% based on a nominal value of 100.0 million matching the underlying borrowing and pays US dollar floating rates on a nominal value of Current and non-current trade and other payables, as disclosed in Note 19, include 210.2 million 2009: 122.2 million of non-financial liabilities.
The fair value hedge was discontinued in December 2010 when the hedged debt was repaid.
During the period, the hedge was 100% effective 2009: 100% in hedging the fair value exposure to interest rate movements.
A number of derivatives are held which, while providing an economic hedge to the volatility of interest rates, do not satisfy the strict requirements for hedge accounting b The Directors consider that the carrying amount of other financial assets and liabilities recorded in the financial statements approximates their fair values.
and are therefore designated as held for trading.
79 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Financial instruments continued Interest rate sensitivity The effect on both income and equity, based on exposure to non-derivative floating rate instruments at the balance sheet date, for a 1% 2009: 1% rise in interest rates is 4.0 million 2009: 0.3 million, before tax, a 1% 2009: 1% fall in interest rates gives the same but opposite effect.
For derivatives the fair values have been calculated based on rates available from a recognised financial information provider adjusted for the sensitivity as shown in the tables below.
In 2009 due to seasonal fluctuations the level of net borrowings at the financial year end are not representative of floating rate borrowings during the year and therefore interest rate sensitivity before tax for a reasonably possible 1% rise in floating rate instruments as shown below for 2009 is based on a monthly average for the year.
In December 2010 the composition of fixed to floating was changed due to the refinancing and the sensitivity in the table for 2010 is based on the floating rate borrowings at that date as being more representative of the risk.
The table assumes all other variables remain constant and in accordance with IFRS 7 does not attempt, for example, to include the effects of any resultant change in exchange rates.
Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity 1% increase in interest rates income equity income equity million 2010 2010 2009 2009 Derivatives 0.4 0.4 3.2 3.4 Non-derivatives based on average for the year for 2009 4.0 4.0 4.2 4.2 3.6 3.6 1.0 0.8 Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity 1% decrease in interest rates income equity income equity million 2010 2010 2009 2009 Derivatives 0.4 0.4 3.3 3.5 Non-derivatives based on average for the year 4.0 4.0 4.2 4.2 3.6 3.6 0.9 0.7 b Foreign currency risk management The Groups overseas activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates primarily to US dollars, Canadian dollars and the Euro.
The Group is not materially exposed to transaction risks as nearly all Group companies conduct their business in their respective functional currencies.
Group policy requires that transaction risks are hedged to the functional currency of the subsidiary using foreign currency borrowings or derivatives where appropriate.
The Group is also exposed to the translation risk of accounting for both the income and the net investment held in functional currencies other than Sterling.
The net investment risk is partially hedged using foreign currency borrowings and derivatives.
Assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies are retranslated each month using the latest exchange rates and resultant exchange gains or losses monitored each month.
Income is also measured monthly using the latest exchange rates and compared to a budget held at historical exchange rates.
Other than the natural hedge provided by foreign currency borrowings the translation risk of income is not hedged using derivatives.
The policy is kept under periodic review.
The Groups exposure to, and the way in which it manages, exchange rate risk has not changed from the previous year.
Hedge accounting Until the refinancing in December 2010 the bifurcated cross currency swaps were designated in a hedging relationship such that the nominal amount of US$160.5 million 2009: $160.5 million was used to hedge part of the Groups net investment in US$ denominated assets and liabilities.
The net investment hedge using these derivatives was discontinued as a result of the refinancing.
The Group has also designated the carrying value of US$138.0 million and 75.0 million 2009: US$287.5 million and 75.0 million borrowings as a net investment hedge of part of the Groups investment in US dollar and Euro denominated assets respectively.
Due to net realisable value provisions determined at the year end in our Spanish operations the designated hedging instruments exceeded the carrying value of hedged investments on the last day of the year and in accordance with policy any exchange gains or losses on the excess hedge have been recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The change in the carrying amount of the derivatives which were effective hedging instruments and the change in the carrying value of the borrowings offset the exchange movement on the Groups US dollar and net investments and are included in the translation reserve.
80 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Financial instruments continued Interest rate sensitivity Foreign currency sensitivity The effect on both income and equity, based on exposure to non-derivative floating rate instruments at the balance sheet date, for a 1% 2009: 1% rise in interest rates The Group is primarily exposed to US dollars, Canadian dollars and the Euro.
The following table details how the Groups income and equity would increase decrease is 4.0 million 2009: 0.3 million, before tax, a 1% 2009: 1% fall in interest rates gives the same but opposite effect.
For derivatives the fair values have been on a before tax basis, to a 15% increase 2009: 20% in the respective currencies against Sterling and in accordance with IFRS 7, all other variables remaining constant.
calculated based on rates available from a recognised financial information provider adjusted for the sensitivity as shown in the tables below.
A 15% 2009: 20% decrease in the value of Sterling would have an equal but opposite effect.
In 2009 due to seasonal fluctuations the level of net borrowings at the financial year end are not representative of floating rate borrowings during the year and therefore The 15% 2009: 20% change represents a reasonably possible change in the specified foreign exchange rates in relation to Sterling.
interest rate sensitivity before tax for a reasonably possible 1% rise in floating rate instruments as shown below for 2009 is based on a monthly average for the year.
In Income Equity Income Equity December 2010 the composition of fixed to floating was changed due to the refinancing and the sensitivity in the table for 2010 is based on the floating rate borrowings sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity million 2010 2010 2009 2009 at that date as being more representative of the risk.
US dollar 0.1 13.1 5.4 29.6 Canadian dollar 0.2 29.9 1.2 37.7 Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity 1% increase in interest rates income equity income equity Euro 0.3 9.9 0.8 14.1 million 2010 2010 2009 2009 0.4 52.9 7.4 22.2 Derivatives 0.4 0.4 3.2 3.4 Credit risk Non-derivatives based on average for the year for 2009 4.0 4.0 4.2 4.2 Credit risk is the risk of financial loss where counterparties are not able to meet their obligations.
3.6 3.6 1.0 0.8 The Groups policy is that surplus cash when not used to repay borrowings is placed on deposit with the Groups revolving credit facility syndicate banks and with other banks based on a minimum credit rating.
Credit risk on derivatives where the fair value is positive is closely monitored and remains within acceptable limits.
Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity 1% decrease in interest rates income equity income equity Land receivables arise from sales of surplus land on deferred terms.
A policy is in place such that if the risk is not acceptable then the deferred payment must have million 2010 2010 2009 2009 adequate security either by the use of an appropriate guarantee or a charge over the land.
The fair value of any land held as security is considered by management to be Derivatives 0.4 0.4 3.3 3.5 sufficient in relation to the carrying amount of the receivable to which it relates.
Non-derivatives based on average for the year 4.0 4.0 4.2 4.2 Trade and other receivables comprise mainly amounts receivable from various housing associations and other housebuilders.
Management considers that the credit 3.6 3.6 0.9 0.7 quality of the various debtors is good in respect of the amounts outstanding and therefore credit risk is considered to be low.
There is no significant concentration of risk.
b Foreign currency risk management A small allowance for credit losses against sundry debtors is held, however, the balance is not material in relation to the gross carrying value of this particular class of The Groups overseas activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates primarily to US dollars, Canadian dollars and the Euro.
Group policy The carrying amount of financial assets, as detailed above, represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date assuming that any security held requires that transaction risks are hedged to the functional currency of the subsidiary using foreign currency borrowings or derivatives where appropriate.
The net Liquidity risk investment risk is partially hedged using foreign currency borrowings and derivatives.
Assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies are retranslated Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does not have sufficient financial resources available to meet its obligations as they fall due.
The Group manages liquidity risk by each month using the latest exchange rates and resultant exchange gains or losses monitored each month.
Income is also measured monthly using the latest exchange continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows, matching the expected cash flow timings of financial assets and liabilities and ideally through the use of term rates and compared to a budget held at historical exchange rates.
Other than the natural hedge provided by foreign currency borrowings the translation risk of income is borrowings, overdrafts and committed revolving credit facilities for a minimum of 12 months from maturity.
Future borrowing requirements are forecast on a weekly and not hedged using derivatives.
monthly basis and funding headroom is maintained above forecast peak requirements to meet unforeseen events.
As a result of the refinancing in December 2010 the Group now has a range of maturities with an average life of 3.5 years 2009: 2.5 years.
In addition to term borrowings and committed overdraft facilities the Group has access to committed revolving credit facilities and cash balances.
At the balance sheet Hedge accounting date, the total unused committed amount was 477.0 million 2009: 1,078.3 million and cash and cash equivalents of 183.9 million 2009: 132.1 million.
Until the refinancing in December 2010 the bifurcated cross currency swaps were designated in a hedging relationship such that the nominal amount of US$160.5 million 2009: $160.5 million was used to hedge part of the Groups net investment in US$ denominated assets and liabilities.
81 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Financial instruments continued The maturity profile of the anticipated future cash flows including interest using the latest applicable relevant rate based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis is as follows: Overdrafts, Financial liabilities bank and other Land Other trade Debenture million loans creditors payables loans Total On demand 15.1 15.1 Within one year 22.1 201.0 499.8 28.0 750.9 More than one year and less than two years 194.4 86.6 19.3 25.9 326.2 More than two years and less than five years 432.3 65.3 20.0 327.8 845.4 In more than five years 38.0 2.4 40.4 31 December 2010 663.9 390.9 541.5 381.7 1,978.0 Financial liabilities Bank loans Land Other trade Debenture million and overdraft creditors payables loans Total On demand 12.7 12.7 Within one year 4.4 132.5 414.8 59.8 611.5 More than one year and less than two years 4.4 90.9 18.1 59.8 173.2 More than two years and less than five years 150.6 95.4 21.4 747.3 1,014.7 In more than five years 29.8 29.8 31 December 2009 172.1 348.6 454.3 866.9 1,841.9 The following table represents the undiscounted cash flow profile of the Groups derivative financial instruments and has been calculated using implied interest rates and exchange rates derived from the respective yield curves.
Interest rate swaps are settled net and foreign currency swaps and forward contracts are settled gross except in the case of a default by either party where the amounts may be settled net.
Net-settled Gross-settled Gross-settled Derivatives derivatives derivatives derivatives million net amount receivable payable Total Within one year 7.7 6.6 2.6 3.7 More than one year and less than two years 1.4 106.6 104.5 0.7 More than two years and less than five years 31 December 2010 9.1 113.2 107.1 3.0 Net-settled Gross-settled Gross-settled Derivatives derivatives derivatives derivatives million net amount receivable payable Total Within one year 7.7 6.6 2.6 3.7 More than one year and less than two years 4.7 6.6 4.1 2.2 More than two years and less than five years 0.7 113.3 107.5 5.1 31 December 2009 13.1 126.5 114.2 0.8 82 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Retirement benefit schemes The maturity profile of the anticipated future cash flows including interest using the latest applicable relevant rate based on the earliest date on which the Group can be Retirement benefit obligation comprises gross pension liability of 248.5 million 2009: 406.4 million and gross post-retirement healthcare liability of 2.0 million required to pay financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis is as follows: 2009: 2.9 million.
Overdrafts, The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
In the UK, the Taylor Woodrow Group Pension and Life Assurance Fund TWGP&LAF Financial liabilities bank and other Land Other trade Debenture and the George Wimpey Staff Pension Scheme GWSPS are funded defined benefit schemes and are managed by boards of Trustees.
The TWGP&LAF merged with the million loans creditors payables loans Total Bryant Group Pension Scheme BGPS on 24 June 2002 and with the Wilson Connolly Holdings Pension Scheme WCHPS, the Wainhomes Ltd Pension Scheme On demand 15.1 15.1 WHLPS and the Prestoplan Pension Scheme PPS on 27 August 2004.
The Groups defined benefit schemes are closed to new entrants.
The TWGP&LAF was closed Within one year 22.1 201.0 499.8 28.0 750.9 to future pension accrual with effect from 30 November 2006 and the GWSPS was closed to future accrual with effect from 31 August 2010.
An alternative defined More than one year and less than two years 194.4 86.6 19.3 25.9 326.2 contribution arrangement, the Taylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan TWPCP, is offered to new employees and to members of the defined benefit schemes when they More than two years and less than five years 432.3 65.3 20.0 327.8 845.4 were closed to future accrual.
Legacy George Wimpey staff were members of a UK Stakeholder arrangement and contributions to the arrangement ceased with effect In more than five years 38.0 2.4 40.4 from 31 August 2010.
These members were offered membership of the TWPCP.
The Group also operates a number of small overseas pension schemes including defined benefit schemes in the US and Canada.
Of the defined benefit pension scheme net deficit of 248.5 million 2009: 406.4 million at 31 December 2010, 244.0 31 December 2010 663.9 390.9 541.5 381.7 1,978.0 million 2009: 401.4 million related to the TWGP&LAF and GWSPS schemes in the UK and 4.5 million 2009: 5.0 million related to defined benefit schemes in the US and Canada.
Future revaluation of deferred member benefits in the UK defined benefit schemes will be based on the CPI in line with scheme rules.
Pensioner increases Financial liabilities Bank loans Land Other trade Debenture will continue to be based on RPI.
The Company made an additional payment of 37.5 million to each of the UK defined benefit schemes following the refinancing million and overdraft creditors payables loans Total agreement in December 2010.
On demand 12.7 12.7 The pension scheme assets of the Groups principal defined benefit pension schemes, TWGP&LAF and GWSPS, are held in separate trustee-administered funds to meet Within one year 4.4 132.5 414.8 59.8 611.5 long term pension liabilities to past and present employees.
The Trustees of the schemes are required to act in the best interests of the schemes beneficiaries.
The More than one year and less than two years 4.4 90.9 18.1 59.8 173.2 appointment of trustees is determined by each schemes trust documentation.
The Group has a policy that at least one-third of all trustees should be nominated by More than two years and less than five years 150.6 95.4 21.4 747.3 1,014.7 members of the scheme.
The Trustees have implemented a Joint Investment Sub Committee to manage the investment of the combined defined benefit scheme assets.
In more than five years 29.8 29.8 The Company and the Trustees have undertaken a review of the scheme investment strategy, implementation of the investment changes will occur during 2011.
31 December 2009 172.1 348.6 454.3 866.9 1,841.9 The most recent formal triennial valuations of the TWGP&LAF and the GWSPS were carried out as at 31 March 2010.
The Group agreed revised funding schedules under which the Group will make annual funding contributions of 22.0 million per annum in respect of the TWGP&LAF over 10 years from the valuation date and 24.0 million The following table represents the undiscounted cash flow profile of the Groups derivative financial instruments and has been calculated using implied interest rates and per annum in respect of the GWSPS from the valuation date.
Previously the Group was making annual funding contributions of 20.0 million per annum over eight years exchange rates derived from the respective yield curves.
Interest rate swaps are settled net and foreign currency swaps and forward contracts are settled gross except in in respect of the TWGP&LAF and 25.0 million per annum over 10 years in respect of the GWSPS.
Following the last valuation of the GWSPS, the ordinary contribution the case of a default by either party where the amounts may be settled net.
rate was set at 18% of pensionable salaries, which was applicable until the scheme was closed to future accrual in August 2010.
The projected unit method was used in Net-settled Gross-settled Gross-settled all valuations and assets were taken into account using market values.
Derivatives derivatives derivatives derivatives million net amount receivable payable Total Contributions of 4.1 million 2009: 10.6 million were charged to income in respect of defined contribution schemes.
Within one year 7.7 6.6 2.6 3.7 The main financial assumptions, which were used for the triennial funding valuation and are all relative to the inflation assumption, are as set out below: More than one year and less than two years 1.4 106.6 104.5 0.7 More than two years and less than five years Assumptions TWGP&LAF GWSPS 31 December 2010 9.1 113.2 107.1 3.0 RPI inflation 3.60% 3.85% Discount rate pre post-retirement 6.85%-5.10% 6.75%-4.75% General pay inflation Net-settled Gross-settled Gross-settled Derivatives derivatives derivatives derivatives Real pension increases 0.00% 0.00% million net amount receivable payable Total Within one year 7.7 6.6 2.6 3.7 More than one year and less than two years 4.7 6.6 4.1 2.2 Valuation results TWGP&LAF GWSPS More than two years and less than five years 0.7 113.3 107.5 5.1 Market value of assets 758m 694m 31 December 2009 13.1 126.5 114.2 0.8 Past service liabilities 1,022m 953m Scheme funding levels 74% 73% There have been two significant post valuation events, the future revaluation of deferred member benefits to be based on CPI from 1 January 2011, which will reduce liabilities by 20.0 million for the TWGP&LAF and 19.0 million for the GWSPS and the additional Company payment to each scheme of 37.5 million has increased assets for both schemes.
Annual funding contributions take into account these post valuation events.
The results of the March 2010 valuations of the Groups pension schemes have been updated to 31 December 2010 and the position of overseas schemes has been included within the IAS 19 disclosures.
The principal actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the disclosure items are as follows: 83 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Retirement benefit schemes continued United Kingdom North America 2010 2009 2010 2009 As at 31 December Discount rate for scheme liabilities 5.40% 5.70% 5.25%-5.37% 5.94%-6.00% Expected return on scheme assets 5.55%-5.92% 5.90%-6.20% 6.50%-7.00% 6.50%-8.00% General pay inflation n a 4.30% 3.00%-3.50% 3.00%-3.50% Deferred pension increases 2.45% 3.30% 0.00% 0.00% Pension increases 2.20%-3.65% 2.30%-3.20% 0.00%-3.00% 0.00%-3.00% The basis for the above assumptions are prescribed by IAS 19 and do not reflect the assumptions that may be used in future funding valuations of the Groups pension schemes.
The current life expectancies in years underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for the main UK plans are: 2010 2009 Life expectancy Male Female Male Female Member currently age 65 86 90 86 89 Member currently age 45 88 92 87 90 The life expectancies have been derived using mortality assumptions that were based on the results of a recent investigation into the mortality experience of the schemes.
The base tables used are the PA92 series tables with appropriate age rating adjustments.
Future improvements in life expectancy are allowed for in the form of the medium cohort projections, with a 1% per annum underpin to future improvements in life expectancy.
The fair value of assets and present value of obligations of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are set out below: Expected rate of United North Percentage of return Kingdom America Total plans total plan % p. a million million million assets held 31 December 2010 Assets: Equities 7.65% 587.3 10.0 597.3 37% Bonds 5.40% 324.9 7.0 331.9 21% Gilts 4.15% 481.0 481.0 30% Other assets 3.20%-7.65% 191.2 2.7 193.9 12% 1,584.4 19.7 1,604.1 100% Present value of defined benefit obligations 1,828.4 24.2 1,852.6 Deficit in schemes recognised as non-current liability 244.0 4.5 248.5 31 December 2009 Assets: Equities 7.90% 527.9 9.8 537.7 38% Bonds 5.70% 294.0 5.4 299.4 21% Gilts 4.40% 444.8 444.8 32% Other assets 3.30%-7.90% 129.7 0.7 130.4 9% 1,396.4 15.9 1,412.3 100% Present value of defined benefit obligations 1,797.8 20.9 1,818.7 Deficit in schemes recognised as non-current liability 401.4 5.0 406.4 To develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption, the Group considered the current level of expected returns on investments particularly government bonds, the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class were then weighted based on the asset allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio.
The expected return on scheme assets is based on market expectations at the beginning of the financial period for returns over the life of the related obligation.
The expected yield on bond investments with fixed interest rates can be derived exactly from their market value.
Some of these bond investments are issued by the UK Government.
The risk of default on these is very small.
The trustees also hold bonds issued by public companies.
There is a more significant risk of default on these which is assessed by various rating agencies.
The trustees also have a substantial holding of equity investments.
The investment return related to these is variable, and they are generally considered riskier investments.
It is generally accepted that the yield on equity investments will contain a premium, the equity risk premium, to compensate investors for the additional risk of holding this type of investment.
There is significant uncertainty about the likely size of this risk premium.
84 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Retirement benefit schemes continued United Kingdom North America A summary of the target asset allocations of the major defined benefit schemes are shown below: 2010 2009 2010 2009 TWGP&LAF GWSPS As at 31 December UK Equities 17% 18% Discount rate for scheme liabilities 5.40% 5.70% 5.25%-5.37% 5.94%-6.00% Non-UK Equities 30% 12% Expected return on scheme assets 5.55%-5.92% 5.90%-6.20% 6.50%-7.00% 6.50%-8.00% Index-Linked Gilts 15% 25% General pay inflation n a 4.30% 3.00%-3.50% 3.00%-3.50% Fixed-Interest Gilts 10% 16% Deferred pension increases 2.45% 3.30% 0.00% 0.00% Other UK bonds 25% 24% Pension increases 2.20%-3.65% 2.30%-3.20% 0.00%-3.00% 0.00%-3.00% GTAA 5% Property 3% The basis for the above assumptions are prescribed by IAS 19 and do not reflect the assumptions that may be used in future funding valuations of the Groups pension schemes.
million 2010 2009 The current life expectancies in years underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for the main UK plans are: Amount charged against income: 2010 2009 Current service cost 3.7 4.1 Life expectancy Male Female Male Female Curtailment gain 12.6 Member currently age 65 86 90 86 89 Operating income cost 8.9 4.1 Member currently age 45 88 92 87 90 Expected return on scheme assets 74.9 61.2 Interest cost on scheme liabilities 98.3 95.5 The life expectancies have been derived using mortality assumptions that were based on the results of a recent investigation into the mortality experience of the schemes.
Future improvements in life expectancy are allowed for in the form of Finance charges 23.4 34.3 the medium cohort projections, with a 1% per annum underpin to future improvements in life expectancy.
Total charge 14.5 38.4 The fair value of assets and present value of obligations of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are set out below: The actual return on scheme assets was a gain of 145.7 million 2009: 41.5 million.
Expected rate of United North Percentage of million 2010 2009 return Kingdom America Total plans total plan % p. a million million million assets held Actuarial gains in the Statement of Comprehensive Income: 31 December 2010 Difference between actual and expected return on scheme assets 70.8 102.7 Assets: Experience losses gains arising on scheme liabilities 9.7 29.1 Equities 7.65% 587.3 10.0 597.3 37% Changes in assumptions 14.2 273.6 Bonds 5.40% 324.9 7.0 331.9 21% Total gain loss recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 46.9 141.8 Gilts 4.15% 481.0 481.0 30% The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income is 168.7 million loss 2009: 215.6 million loss.
Other assets 3.20%-7.65% 191.2 2.7 193.9 12% million 2010 2009 1,584.4 19.7 1,604.1 100% Present value of defined benefit obligations 1,828.4 24.2 1,852.6 Movement in present value of defined benefit obligations Deficit in schemes recognised as non-current liability 244.0 4.5 248.5 1 January 1,818.7 1,557.7 Changes in exchange rates 0.7 1.6 31 December 2009 Service cost 3.7 4.1 Assets: Curtailment gain 12.6 Equities 7.90% 527.9 9.8 537.7 38% Benefits paid and expenses 81.0 83.1 Bonds 5.70% 294.0 5.4 299.4 21% Contributions employee 0.9 1.6 Gilts 4.40% 444.8 444.8 32% Interest cost 98.3 95.5 Other assets 3.30%-7.90% 129.7 0.7 130.4 9% Actuarial gains 23.9 244.5 1,396.4 15.9 1,412.3 100% 31 December 1,852.6 1,818.7 Present value of defined benefit obligations 1,797.8 20.9 1,818.7 Deficit in schemes recognised as non-current liability 401.4 5.0 406.4 million 2010 2009 To develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption, the Group considered the current level of expected returns on investments particularly government bonds, the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future Movement in fair value of scheme assets returns of each asset class were then weighted based on the asset allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio.
1 January 1,412.3 1,280.5 Changes in exchange rates 0.7 0.7 The expected return on scheme assets is based on market expectations at the beginning of the financial period for returns over the life of the related obligation.
The Expected return on scheme assets and expenses 74.9 61.2 expected yield on bond investments with fixed interest rates can be derived exactly from their market value.
Some of these bond investments are issued by the UK Contributions employer and employee 126.4 51.7 Government.
There is a more significant risk of default on these Benefits paid 81.0 83.1 which is assessed by various rating agencies.
Actuarial gains 70.8 102.7 The trustees also have a substantial holding of equity investments.
31 December 1,604.1 1,412.3 It is generally accepted that the yield on equity investments will contain a premium, the equity risk premium, to compensate investors for the additional risk of holding this type of investment.
85 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Retirement benefit schemes continued million 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 History of experience gains and losses: Fair value of scheme assets 1,604.1 1,412.3 1,280.5 1,434.2 749.7 Present value of defined benefit obligations 1,852.6 1,818.7 1,557.7 1,650.6 955.6 Deficit in the scheme 248.5 406.4 277.2 216.4 205.9 Difference between actual and expected return on scheme assets: Amount 70.8 102.7 210.4 12.7 24.2 Percentage of scheme assets 4.4% 7.3% 16.4% 1.0% 3.0% Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities: Amount 9.7 29.1 22.1 26.7 0.2 Percentage of scheme liabilities 0.5% 1.6% 1.4% 2.0% 0.0% The estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid to the TWGP&LAF during 2011 are 22.0 million and to the GWSPS are 24.0 million.
The Group liability is the difference between the scheme liabilities and the scheme assets.
Changes in the assumptions may occur at the same time as changes in the market value of scheme assets.
These may or may not offset the change in assumptions.
For example, a fall in interest rates will increase the scheme liability, but may also trigger an offsetting increase in the market value of the assets so there is no net effect on the Company liability.
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate Increase by 0.1% p. a.
Decrease by 28.3m Rate of inflation Increase by 0.1% p. a.
Increase by 22.6m Rate of mortality Members assumed to live 1 year longer Increase by 58.8m The projected liabilities of the defined benefit scheme are apportioned between members past and future service using the projected unit actuarial cost method.
The defined benefit obligation makes allowance for future earnings growth.
The gross post-retirement liability also includes 2.0 million at 31 December 2010 2009: 2.9 million in respect of continuing post-retirement healthcare insurance premiums for retired long-service employees.
The liability is based upon the actuarial assessment of the remaining cost by a qualified actuary on a net present value basis at 31 December 2008.
The cost is calculated assuming a discount rate of 3.6% per annum 2009: 3.6% and an increase in medical expenses of 10% per annum 2009: 10.0%.
The premium cost to the Group in respect of the retired long-service employees for 2010 was 0.2 million 2009: 0.2 million.
Provisions Housing million maintenance Restructuring Other Total At 1 January 2009 39.0 22.1 46.0 107.1 Additional provision in the year 6.2 4.2 12.9 23.3 Utilisation of provision 7.8 9.4 8.0 25.2 Released 0.8 0.2 0.2 1.2 Transfers and Reclassification 24.5 0.2 24.7 Changes in exchange rates 3.0 0.6 1.6 5.2 At 31 December 2009 9.1 15.9 73.8 98.8 Additional provision in the year 4.2 18.0 22.2 Utilisation of provision 4.9 3.7 22.8 31.4 Released 0.2 1.0 1.2 Changes in exchange rates 0.4 0.1 0.8 1.3 At 31 December 2010 8.6 12.3 68.8 89.7 million Amount due for settlement within one year 46.8 Amount due for settlement after one year 42.9 31 December 2010 89.7 86 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Provisions continued The housing maintenance provision arises principally from warranties and other liabilities on housing sold.
Whilst such warranties extend to a period of 10 years, payment million 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 of these costs is likely to occur within a period of two years.
The Group restructuring provision relates to the reorganisation of the UK and US businesses following the History of experience gains and losses: merger with George Wimpey Plc in 2007.
It is anticipated that the majority of this provision, which comprises predominantly of empty property costs will be utilised within Fair value of scheme assets 1,604.1 1,412.3 1,280.5 1,434.2 749.7 six years.
Present value of defined benefit obligations 1,852.6 1,818.7 1,557.7 1,650.6 955.6 Other provisions consist of a remedial work provision, provisions for legal claims and other contract-related costs.
The remedial work provision covers various Deficit in the scheme 248.5 406.4 277.2 216.4 205.9 obligations, including aftercare at Springfield Environmental Limited which has a legal responsibility of a long term nature for the management of old, completed sites and Difference between actual and expected return on scheme assets: provisions for losses on construction contracts.
Also included in other provisions are amounts for legal claims and contract-related costs associated with various matters Amount 70.8 102.7 210.4 12.7 24.2 arising across the Group, the majority of which are anticipated to be settled within a three-year period.
Percentage of scheme assets 4.4% 7.3% 16.4% 1.0% 3.0% Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities: 23.
Share capital Amount 9.7 29.1 22.1 26.7 0.2 million 2010 2009 Percentage of scheme liabilities 0.5% 1.6% 1.4% 2.0% 0.0% Authorised: The estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid to the TWGP&LAF during 2011 are 22.0 million and to the GWSPS are 24.0 million.
22,200,819,176 ordinary shares of 1p each 2009: 22,200,819,176 ordinary shares of 1p 222.0 222.0 1,158,299,201 deferred ordinary shares of 24p each 2009: 1,158,299,201 278.0 278.0 The Group liability is the difference between the scheme liabilities and the scheme assets.
Changes in the assumptions may occur at the same time as changes in the 500.0 500.0 market value of scheme assets.
Number of shares million Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Issued and fully paid: Discount rate Increase by 0.1% p. a.
Increase by 22.6m 1 January 2009 1,158,299,201 289.6 Rate of mortality Members assumed to live 1 year longer Increase by 58.8m Treasury Share cancellation 92,732,927 23.2 Share warrants exercised 166,786 The projected liabilities of the defined benefit scheme are apportioned between members past and future service using the projected unit actuarial cost method.
The Placing and open offer 2,131,132,548 21.3 defined benefit obligation makes allowance for future earnings growth.
31 December 2009 3,196,865,608 287.7 The gross post-retirement liability also includes 2.0 million at 31 December 2010 2009: 2.9 million in respect of continuing post-retirement healthcare insurance Share warrants exercised 318,092 premiums for retired long-service employees.
The liability is based upon the actuarial assessment of the remaining cost by a qualified actuary on a net present value basis 31 December 2010 3,197,183,700 287.7 at 31 December 2008.
The Company issued 2,131.1 million new ordinary shares on 1 June 2009, as part of a placing and open offer.
Prior to the placing and open offer issue the 25p ordinary The cost is calculated assuming a discount rate of 3.6% per annum 2009: 3.6% and an increase in medical expenses of 10% per annum 2009: 10.0%.
The premium shares of the Company were split into 1,158.3 million ordinary shares of 1p and 1,158.3 million deferred shares of 24p each.
The unissued 25p share capital was split into cost to the Group in respect of the retired long-service employees for 2010 was 0.2 million 2009: 0.2 million.
The new share issue was executed such that the amounts received above nominal share capital, net of issue costs, were recorded as part of the merger relief reserve and then subsequently transferred to distributable reserves.
Provisions Housing During the year, options were exercised on 156,674 2009: 139,062 ordinary shares of which nil 2009: nil were new issues with the balance coming from Treasury ESOT million maintenance Restructuring Other Total at varying prices from nil pence to 25.5p and shares were issued for a total consideration of nil 2009: nil.
Under the Groups senior executives share option scheme and At 1 January 2009 39.0 22.1 46.0 107.1 executive share option plan, employees held options at 31 December 2010 to purchase 23,606,831 shares 2009: 32,840,430 at prices between 39.3p and 171.6p per share exercisable up to 7 August 2019.
Under the Groups savings-related share option schemes, employees held options at 31 December 2010 to purchase 37,487,029 Additional provision in the year 6.2 4.2 12.9 23.3 shares 2009: 33,719,220 at prices between 22.9p and 189.2p per share exercisable up to 5 April 2016.
Under the Groups cash bonus deferral plan and executive Utilisation of provision 7.8 9.4 8.0 25.2 bonus plan, employees held options at 31 December 2010 in respect of nil shares 2009: 96,927 at nil pence per share.
Under the Groups performance share plan Released 0.8 0.2 0.2 1.2 employees held conditional awards at 31 December 2010 in respect of 22,640,446 shares 2009: 15,744,982 at nil pence per share exercisable up to 6 August 2013.
Transfers and Reclassification 24.5 0.2 24.7 Under the Groups share purchase plan employees held conditional awards at 31 December 2010 in respect of 5,628,627 shares 2009: 6,521,631 at nil pence per share.
Changes in exchange rates 3.0 0.6 1.6 5.2 The former George Wimpey plans were acquired as part of the merger in 2007.
Under the George Wimpey Sharesave Scheme, employees held options at 31 December At 31 December 2009 9.1 15.9 73.8 98.8 2010 to purchase 200,572 shares 2009: 512,708 at prices between 160.1p and 188.0p per share exercisable up to 31 May 2012.
Under the George Wimpey Executive Additional provision in the year 4.2 18.0 22.2 Option Scheme, employees held awards at 31 December 2010 in respect of 1,327,341 shares 2009: 2,163,415 at prices between 144.3p and 310.0p per share Utilisation of provision 4.9 3.7 22.8 31.4 exercisable up to 2 April 2017.
Under the George Wimpey Long Term Incentive Plan, employees held awards at 31 December 2010 in respect of nil shares 2009: Released 0.2 1.0 1.2 955,036 at nil pence per share.
Changes in exchange rates 0.4 0.1 0.8 1.3 Under the Override Agreement, signed in April 2009, the Company agreed to issue 57.8 million warrants giving the holders the right to subscribe to an equivalent number At 31 December 2010 8.6 12.3 68.8 89.7 of ordinary shares in Taylor Wimpey plc at par value.
The warrants may be exercised at par by the holder within five years of the date of issue and as at 31 December 2010 484,878 warrants had been exercised.
Share premium account Amount due for settlement within one year 46.8 Amount due for settlement after one year 42.9 million 31 December 2010 89.7 Balance at 1 January 2009 753.6 Share warrants exercised Balance at 31 December 2009 753.6 Share warrants exercised 0.1 Balance at 31 December 2010 753.7 87 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
Reserves Capital Share-based Retained Merger relief redemption Translation payment tax Total other million earnings reserve reserve reserve reserve Other reserves Balance at 1 January 2009 838.3 31.5 22.8 5.6 4.8 64.7 New share capital subscribed 488.8 Cancellation and disposal of treasury shares 247.5 Issuance of equity instruments 5.5 5.5 Share-based payment credit 1.0 Actuarial loss as defined benefit pension schemes 141.8 Deferred tax asset recognised 87.6 Transfer to retained earnings 488.8 488.8 Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations, net of tax 5.0 5.0 Increase in fair value of hedging derivatives 11.5 11.5 Other financing costs 0.5 Net loss for the year 640.4 Balance at 31 December 2009 385.5 31.5 29.3 5.6 10.3 76.7 Cancellation and disposal of treasury shares 4.4 Share-based payment credit 2.8 Cash cost of satisfying share options 0.4 Actuarial benefit as defined benefit pension schemes 46.9 Deferred tax asset 15.9 Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations, net of tax 33.9 33.9 Increase in fair value of hedging derivatives 3.6 3.6 Transfer to retained earnings 5.6 5.6 5.6 Net profit for the year 259.3 Balance at 31 December 2010 679.4 31.5 59.6 10.3 101.4 Merger relief reserve In 2009 in accordance with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 the 488.8 million premium on ordinary shares issued as part of the placing and open offer in June 2009 was initially recorded within the merger relief reserve, and subsequently transferred to the retained earnings.
Other reserves Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve arose on the historical redemption of parent Company shares, and is not distributable.
Translation reserve The translation reserve consists of exchange differences arising on the translation of overseas operations.
It also includes changes in fair values of hedging derivatives where such instruments are designated and effective as hedges of investment in overseas operations.
Share-based payment tax reserve As explained in the statement of accounting policies, an expense is recorded in the Consolidated Income Statement over the period from the grant date to the vesting date of share options granted to employees.
As there is a temporary difference between the accounting and tax bases, a deferred tax asset is recorded.
The deferred tax asset arising is calculated by comparing the estimated amount of tax deduction to be obtained in the future based on the Companys share price at the balance sheet date with the cumulative amount of the expense recorded in the Consolidated Income Statement.
If the amount of estimated future tax deduction exceeds the cumulative amount of the remuneration expense at the statutory tax rate, the excess is recorded directly in equity, in this share-based payment tax reserve.
As the Group had previously written off all its deferred tax assets through the Consolidated Income Statement in prior years, it was considered appropriate to transfer the remaining reserve of 5.6 million to retained earnings.
Other reserve As detailed in Note 7, the Group issued 57.8 million of warrants with a fair value of 5.5 million.
The full cost of the warrants was recognised in the Other reserve on their issuance.
88 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
Own shares Capital Share-based million Retained Merger relief redemption Translation payment tax Total other million earnings reserve reserve reserve reserve Other reserves Balance at 1 January 2009 275.7 Balance at 1 January 2009 838.3 31.5 22.8 5.6 4.8 64.7 Cancellation of treasury shares 245.9 New share capital subscribed 488.8 Disposed of on exercise of options 24.8 Cancellation and disposal of treasury shares 247.5 Balance at 31 December 2009 5.0 Issuance of equity instruments 5.5 5.5 Disposed of on exercise of options 4.4 Share-based payment credit 1.0 Balance at 31 December 2010 0.6 Actuarial loss as defined benefit pension schemes 141.8 As part of the equity raise process in June 2009, 92.7 million treasury shares held outside of the employee share ownership trusts were cancelled with an associated Deferred tax asset recognised 87.6 charge to retained earnings of 222.8 million.
This did not impact distributable reserves.
Transfer to retained earnings 488.8 488.8 Exchange differences on translation of overseas The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Taylor Wimpey plc purchased in the market, those held as treasury shares and held by the Taylor Wimpey plc operations, net of tax 5.0 5.0 Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy options under the Groups share plans.
Increase in fair value of hedging derivatives 11.5 11.5 During the year, Taylor Wimpey plc purchased none of its own shares 2009: nil.
Other financing costs 0.5 2010 2009 Net loss for the year 640.4 Number Number Balance at 31 December 2009 385.5 31.5 29.3 5.6 10.3 76.7 These comprise ordinary shares of the Company: Cancellation and disposal of treasury shares 4.4 Shares held in trust for bonus, option and performance award plans 1.5m 3.3m Share-based payment credit 2.8 1.5m 3.3m Cash cost of satisfying share options 0.4 Actuarial benefit as defined benefit pension schemes 46.9 Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOTs are used to hold the Companys shares shares which are either acquired on the market or transferred out of the Deferred tax asset 15.9 Companys holding of shares in Treasury.
These shares are used to meet the valid exercise and or vesting of conditional awards under the deferred bonus plan and Exchange differences on translation of overseas performance share plan and options under the Savings-Related, Executive Share Option, George Wimpey LTIP and Executive Bonus Plans over shares, and the operations, net of tax 33.9 33.9 matching award of shares under the Share Purchase Plan.
During the year, nil 2009: nil shares were transferred out of the Companys Treasury holding to the ESOTs for Increase in fair value of hedging derivatives 3.6 3.6 this purpose.
Transfer to retained earnings 5.6 5.6 5.6 The ESOTs entire holding of shares at 31 December 2010, aggregating 1.5 million shares 2009: 3.3 million, was covered by outstanding options and conditional awards Net profit for the year 259.3 over shares at that date.
Balance at 31 December 2010 679.4 31.5 59.6 10.3 101.4 Merger relief reserve In 2009 in accordance with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 the 488.8 million premium on ordinary shares issued as part of the placing and open offer in June 2009 was initially recorded within the merger relief reserve, and subsequently transferred to the retained earnings.
89 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 27.
Notes to the cash flow statement million 2010 2009 Profit loss on ordinary activities before finance costs 121.2 543.0 Non-cash exceptional items: Impairment of fixed assets 0.5 Inventories write downs 24.8 527.0 Adjustments for: Depreciation of plant and equipment 4.3 4.2 Pensions curtailment 12.6 Share-based payment charge 2.8 1.0 Loss on disposal of property and plant 0.2 Decrease in provisions 10.4 3.1 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 130.1 13.2 Decrease in inventories 168.8 735.0 Increase decrease in receivables 42.5 25.4 Increase decrease in payables 91.9 432.6 Pension contributions in excess of charge 119.1 44.7 Cash generated by operations 229.2 269.9 Income taxes received 25.7 109.1 Interest paid 167.0 172.7 Net cash from operating activities 87.9 206.3 Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and other short term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
Movement in net debt Cash and cash Overdrafts, banks million equivalents and other loans Debenture loans Total net debt Balance 1 January 2009 752.3 1,312.5 969.1 1,529.3 Cashflow 595.8 1,124.9 200.4 729.5 Business disposals 4.1 4.1 Foreign exchange 24.4 22.4 46.8 44.8 Balance 31 December 2009 132.1 161.1 721.9 750.9 Cashflow 46.5 433.0 482.4 95.9 Foreign exchange 5.3 5.7 10.5 0.5 Balance 31 December 2010 183.9 588.4 250.0 654.5 In April 2009 the Group disposed of its residual construction operations to existing local management for 1.
At the point of disposal the business had bank loans of 4.1 million.
90 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 27.
Notes to the cash flow statement 28.
Contingent liabilities and capital commitments General million 2010 2009 The Company and certain subsidiary undertakings have, in the normal course of business, given guarantees and entered into counter-indemnities in respect of bonds Profit loss on ordinary activities before finance costs 121.2 543.0 relating to the Groups own contracts and given guarantees in respect of the Groups share of certain contractual obligations of joint ventures.
Non-cash exceptional items: The Group has entered into counter-indemnities in the normal course of business in respect of performance bonds.
Impairment of fixed assets 0.5 Inventories write downs 24.8 527.0 Provision is made for the Directors best estimate of all known legal claims and all legal actions in progress.
The Group takes legal advice as to the likelihood of success Adjustments for: of claims and actions and no provision is made where the Directors consider, based on that advice, that the action is unlikely to succeed or a sufficiently reliable estimate of the potential obligation cannot be made.
Depreciation of plant and equipment 4.3 4.2 Pensions curtailment 12.6 The Group has no material capital commitments as at 31 December 2010 2009: nil.
Share-based payment charge 2.8 1.0 Loss on disposal of property and plant 0.2 29.
Operating lease arrangements Decrease in provisions 10.4 3.1 The Group as lessee Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 130.1 13.2 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: Decrease in inventories 168.8 735.0 million 2010 2009 Increase decrease in receivables 42.5 25.4 Within one year 14.0 7.0 Increase decrease in payables 91.9 432.6 In more than one year but not more than five years 33.4 22.4 Pension contributions in excess of charge 119.1 44.7 After five years 12.2 19.5 Cash generated by operations 229.2 269.9 59.6 48.9 Income taxes received 25.7 109.1 Interest paid 167.0 172.7 Operating lease payments principally represent rentals payable by the Group for certain office properties and vehicles.
Net cash from operating activities 87.9 206.3 Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and other short term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
91 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Share-based payments Equity-settled share option plan Details of all equity-settled share-based payment arrangements in existence during the year are set out in the paragraphs on Executive share-based reward in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 50.
2010 2009 Weighted Weighted average average exercise price exercise price Schemes requiring consideration from participants: Options in Options in Outstanding at beginning of year 69,235,774 0.52 46,642,667 1.01 Granted during the year 11,532,281 0.23 19,276,238 0.39 Lapsed during the year 11,664,539 1.30 9,140,769 1.32 Exercised during the year 142,825 0.26 101,330 0.26 Cancellations during the year 6,338,918 0.32 6,609,462 0.41 a Open offer adjustment 19,168,430 0.51 Outstanding at the end of the period 62,621,773 0.45 69,235,774 0.52 Exercisable at the end of the period 978,975 2.38 2,181,578 2.19 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 0.26 2009: 0.41.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2010 had a range of exercise prices from 0.23 to 3.10 2009: 0.11 to 3.22 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.0 years 2009: 4.5 years.
Schemes not requiring consideration from participants include the George Wimpey Long Term Incentive Plan and the Performance Share Plans.
2010 2009 Weighted Weighted average average exercise price exercise price Schemes not requiring consideration from participants: Options in Options in Outstanding at beginning of year 23,318,576 10,732,296 Granted during the year 15,295,654 8,756,641 Lapsed during the year 10,302,383 1,425,497 Exercised during the year 13,849 37,732 Cancellations during the year 28,925 24,351 a Open offer adjustment 5,317,219 Outstanding at the end of the period 28,269,073 23,318,576 Exercisable at the end of the period 127,439 198,320 a On 1 June 2009 the Group undertook the placing and open offer, as detailed in Note 23.
As a result all outstanding share-based awards were adjusted by a formula approved by HM Revenue and Customs and agreed with the Groups Auditors.
The Conditional awards outstanding at 31 December 2010 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.5 years 2009: 1.7 years.
For share plans with non-market conditions granted during the current and preceding year, the fair value of the awards at grant date was determined using the Binomial model.
The inputs into that model were as follows: 2010 2009 Weighted average share price 0.29 0.39 Weighted average exercise price 0.18 0.39 Expected volatility 74% 57% Expected life 3 5 years 3 5 years Risk free rate 1.5% 3.1% Expected dividend yield 0.0% 0.0% The weighted average fair value of share awards granted during the year is 0.33 2009: 0.21.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the expected term.
92 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Share-based payments continued Equity-settled share option plan For share awards with market conditions granted during the current year, the fair value of the awards was determined using the Monte Carlo simulation model.
The inputs Details of all equity-settled share-based payment arrangements in existence during the year are set out in the paragraphs on Executive share-based reward in the into that model were as follows: Directors Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 50.
2010 2009 2010 2009 Weighted average share price 0.31 0.38 Weighted Weighted Weighted average exercise price Nil nil average average Expected volatility 98% 70% exercise price exercise price Schemes requiring consideration from participants: Options in Options in Expected life 3 7 years 3 7 years Outstanding at beginning of year 69,235,774 0.52 46,642,667 1.01 Risk free rate 1.4% 2.8% Granted during the year 11,532,281 0.23 19,276,238 0.39 Expected dividend yield 0.0% 0.0% Lapsed during the year 11,664,539 1.30 9,140,769 1.32 The weighted average fair value of share options granted during the year is 0.23 2009: 0.27.
Exercised during the year 142,825 0.26 101,330 0.26 Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the expected term, however due to the exceptional volatility in this Cancellations during the year 6,338,918 0.32 6,609,462 0.41 a financial year we have excluded the period between 1 May 2008 and 31 October 2008 as allowed by IFRS 2 Share-based payment.
The expected life used in the model Open offer adjustment 19,168,430 0.51 is based on historical exercise patterns.
Outstanding at the end of the period 62,621,773 0.45 69,235,774 0.52 Exercisable at the end of the period 978,975 2.38 2,181,578 2.19 The Group recognised total expenses of 2.8 million and 1.0 million related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in 2010 and 2009 respectively.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 0.26 2009: 0.41.
The options outstanding at 31 December 31.
Related party transactions 2010 had a range of exercise prices from 0.23 to 3.10 2009: 0.11 to 3.22 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.0 years 2009: 4.5 years.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this Note.
Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are disclosed below.
Trading transactions 2010 2009 During the year, Group companies purchases from joint ventures totalled 22.8 million 2009: 26.1 million.
Purchases were based on open market values.
Weighted Weighted average average Remuneration of key management personnel exercise price exercise price Schemes not requiring consideration from participants: Options in Options in Details of the remuneration of the Directors and Executive Committee, who are the key management personnel of the Group, are contained in the audited part of the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 50 and form part of these financial statements.
Outstanding at beginning of year 23,318,576 10,732,296 Granted during the year 15,295,654 8,756,641 Lapsed during the year 10,302,383 1,425,497 Exercised during the year 13,849 37,732 Cancellations during the year 28,925 24,351 a Open offer adjustment 5,317,219 Outstanding at the end of the period 28,269,073 23,318,576 Exercisable at the end of the period 127,439 198,320 a On 1 June 2009 the Group undertook the placing and open offer, as detailed in Note 23.
93 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
