Our business General information Principal activity, business review and future developments The The interests of Directors and their immediate families in the shares of principal activity of the Group is retailing and associated activities in the Tesco PLC, along with details of Directors share options, are contained UK, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Republic of Ireland, India, in the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 52 to 66.
Japan, Malaysia, Poland, Slovakia, South Korea, Thailand, Turkey and the US.
The Group also provides retail banking and insurance services At no time during the year did any of the Directors have a material interest through its subsidiary Tesco Bank.
in any significant contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
A qualifying third-party indemnity provision as defined in Section 234 of Group results Group revenue excluding VAT rose by 3bn to 56.9bn, the Companies Act 2006 is in force for the benefit of each of the Directors representing an increase of 7.1%.
Group profit before tax increased by and the Company Secretary who is also a Director of certain subsidiaries 259m, to 3,176m.
Profit for the year was 2,336m, of which 2,327m of the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, was attributable to equity holders of the parent company.
to the extent permitted by law.
In respect of those liabilities for which Directors may not be indemnified, the Company maintained a Directors Dividends The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend and officers liability insurance policy throughout the financial year.
of 9.16p per ordinary share, to be paid on 9 July 2010 to members on the Register at the close of business on 30 April 2010.
Together with the Employment policies The Group depends on the skills and commitment interim dividend of 3.89p per ordinary share paid in December 2009, of its employees in order to achieve its objectives.
Ongoing training the total dividend for the year will be 13.05p compared with 11.96p for programmes seek to ensure that employees understand the Groups the previous year, an increase of 9.1%.
customer service objectives and strive to achieve them.
The Groups selection, training, development and promotion policies ensure equal Fixed assets Capital expenditure excluding business combinations opportunities for all employees regardless of factors such as gender, amounted to 3.1bn compared with 4.7bn the previous year.
In the marital status, race, age, sexual preference and orientation, colour, creed, Directors opinion, the properties of the Group have an open market value ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability or trade union affiliation.
All well in excess of the carrying value of 24.8bn which has been included in decisions are based on merit.
Internal communications are designed these financial statements.
to ensure that employees are well informed about the business of the Group.
Employees are encouraged to become involved in the financial Share capital and control of the Company Details of the Companys performance of the Group through a variety of schemes, principally the share capital, including changes during the year in the issued share capital Tesco employee profit-sharing scheme Shares in Success, the savingsand details of the rights attaching to the Companys Ordinary shares, are related share option scheme Save As You Earn and the partnership set out in note 29 on page 116.
Details of shares held by the Companys share plan Buy As You Earn.
Employee Benefit Trusts are shown in note 27 on page 111.
During the year no Ordinary shares were repurchased for cancellation.
No shareholder Political and charitable donations Cash donations to charities holds securities carrying special rights with regards to control of the amounted to 31,221,573 2009 28,278,867.
Total contributions to Company and there are no restrictions on voting rights.
The Board has community projects including cash, cause-related marketing, gifts-in-kind, power to purchase the Companys shares and is seeking renewal of that staff time and management costs amounted to 61,592,464 2009 power at the forthcoming AGM within the limits set out in the notice of 57,094,208.
There were no political donations 2009 nil.
year, the Group made contributions of 49,365 2009 55,468 in the form of sponsorship for political events: Labour Party 15,000: Liberal Shares held by the Companys Employee Share Incentive Plan Trust, Democrat Party 6,300: Conservative Party 8,384: Scottish National International Employee Benefit Trust and Tesco Ireland Share Bonus Party 5,500: Plaid Cymru 2,000: trade unions 12,181.
Scheme Trust rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
Voting rights and rights of acceptance of any offer relating to the Supplier payment policy Tesco PLC is a signatory to the Prompt shares held in these trusts rests with the trustees, who may take account of Payment Code.
More information about the Code can be found at any recommendation from the Company.
Voting rights are not exercisable www.
Payment terms and conditions are by the employees on whose behalf the shares are held in trust.
agreed with suppliers in advance.
Tesco PLC has no trade creditors on its Balance Sheet.
The Group pays its creditors on a pay on time basis The Company is not party to any significant agreements that would take which varies according to the type of product and territory in which the effect, alter or terminate following a change of control of the Company.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or Officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting Going concern The Directors consider that the Group and the Company from a takeover, except that provisions of the Companys share plans may have adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
future and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
As with all business forecasts, the Companys shareholders The Company has been notified that as at Directors statement cannot guarantee that the going concern basis will the date of this report Blackrock, Inc. owns 5.24%, and Legal & General remain appropriate given the inherent uncertainty about future events.
Investment Management Limited owns 3.71% of the issued share capital of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any other shareholders Events after the Balance Sheet date with interests of 3% or more in the issued share capital of the Company.
There were no material events after the Balance Sheet date.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only Auditors A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as be amended by special resolution at a General Meeting of the shareholders.
auditors of the Company and the Group will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors and their interests The Directors who served during the year were: Charles Allen CBE: Richard Brasher: Patrick Cescau: Philip Clarke: Directors statement of disclosure of information to auditors Karen Cook: Rodney Chase CBE: Harald Einsmann: Ken Hanna: Andrew Having made the requisite enquiries, the Directors in office at the date of Higginson: Ken Hydon: Sir Terry Leahy: Tim Mason: Laurie McIlwee: this Annual Report and Financial Statements have each confirmed that, Lucy Neville-Rolfe CMG: David Potts: David Reid and Jacqueline so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined Tammenoms Bakker.
The biographical details of the present Directors by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Groups auditors are set out on pages 36 and 37 of this Report.
Ken Hydon, Tim Mason, are unaware, and each of the Directors has taken all the steps he she ought Lucy Neville-Rolfe, David Potts and David Reid retire from the Board by to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 45
