Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements Note 1 Accounting policies General information not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so or Tesco PLC is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 Registration number Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures and 445790.
The address of the registered office is Tesco House, Delamare associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
The financial year represents the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 prior Use of assumptions and estimates financial year 53 weeks ended 28 February 2009 and includes 53 weeks of The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires trading for the UK, Republic of Ireland ROI and United States of America management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect US businesses.
the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are As described in the Report of the Directors, the main activity of the Group based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed is that of retailing, retailing services and financial services.
to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities Statement of compliance that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance from these estimates.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee IFRIC interpretations as The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing endorsed by the European Union, and those parts of the Companies Act basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both Basis of preparation current and future periods.
The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, generally rounded to the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost Critical estimates and assumptions are made in particular with regard to basis, except for certain financial instruments, share-based payments, establishing uniform depreciation and amortisation periods for the Group, customer loyalty programmes and pensions that have been measured impairment testing including loans, provisions for onerous leases and other at fair value.
provisions, assumptions for measuring pension provisions and fair value of share-based payments, determination of the fair value of obligations to The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently purchase minority interests and fair value of derivative financial instruments, to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
classification of leases as operating leases versus finance leases including on sale and leasebacks, the likelihood that tax assets can be realised and the Basis of consolidation classification of certain operations as held for sale.
The Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of the ultimate Parent Company Tesco PLC, all entities controlled by the Changes in accounting policy and disclosure Company its subsidiaries and the Groups share of its interests in joint The Group has adopted the following new and amended standards and ventures and associates.
interpretations as of 1 March 2009: IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes, effective for annual periods Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of beginning on or after 1 July 2008, requires customer loyalty awards to subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates to bring the accounting policies be accounted for as a separate component of the sales transaction in used into line with those of the Group.
Part of the fair value of the consideration received relating to the customer loyalty awards is deferred and Subsidiaries subsequently recognised over the period in which the awards are A subsidiary is an entity whose operating and financing policies are redeemed.
The results for the 53 weeks ended 28 February 2009 have controlled, directly or indirectly, by Tesco PLC.
The impact on the Group Income Statement for the year ended 28 February 2009, is a 429m reduction in total The accounts of the Parent Companys subsidiary undertakings are revenue, 396m reduction in cost of sales and a 9m decrease to the prepared to dates around the Group year end.
taxation charge for the year.
The net impact is a decrease of 33m to The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated profit before tax and 24m to profit after tax.
The net impact to the financial statements from the date that control commences until the date Group Balance Sheet as at 28 February 2009 is a 53m reduction in that control ceases.
shareholders equity, 73m increase in trade and other payables and a 20m reduction in the provision for deferred tax.
The net impact to Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and the Group Balance Sheet as at 24 February 2008 is a 29m reduction in expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing shareholders equity, 40m increase in trade and other payables and the consolidated financial statements.
an 11m reduction in the provision for deferred tax.
The prior year effect of the restatement on basic and diluted earnings per share is a reduction Joint ventures and associates of 0.36p per share, and 0.35p per share, respectively.
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest on a longA mendment to IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment Vesting Conditions term basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more and Cancellations, effective for annual periods beginning on or after other venturers under a contractual agreement.
1January 2009 clarifies that only service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
Any other conditions are non-vesting conditions An associate is an undertaking, not being a subsidiary or joint venture, which have to be taken into account to determine the fair value of the over which the Group has significant influence and can participate in the equity instruments granted.
The award must be treated as a cancellation financial and operating policy decisions of the entity.
where the award does not vest as a result of a failure to meet a nonvesting condition that is within the control of either the Group or the The Groups share of the results of joint ventures and associates is included counterparty.
Cancellations are treated as accelerated vestings and all in the Group Income Statement using the equity method of accounting.
remaining future charges are immediately recognised in the Group Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried in the Group Balance Income Statement with the credit recognised directly in equity.
The Sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net results for the year ended 28 February 2009 have been restated assets of the entity, less any impairment in value.
The carrying values of accordingly.
The impact on the Group Income Statement, Group investments in joint ventures and associates include acquired goodwill.
Balance Sheet, basic and diluted earnings per share for the prior year If the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or associate equals or was not material.
exceeds its investment in the joint venture or associate, the Group does Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 75 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 1 Accounting policies continued IFRS 8 Operating Segments, effective for annual periods beginning group of assets, and of allocating the interest income over the expected on or after 1 January 2009 replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting and life of the asset.
The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts the requires operating segments to be reported in a manner consistent with estimated future cash flows to the instruments initial carrying amount.
the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees receivable, The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for resource that are an integral part of the instruments yield, premiums or discounts allocation and assessing performance of the operating segments, the on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs.
key performance measure being trading profit, has been identified as the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors.
Fees in respect of services are recognised on an accruals basis as service is provided.
The arrangements are generally contractual and the cost of IAS 1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements, effective for providing the service is incurred as the service is rendered.
The price is annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, prohibits the usually fixed and always determinable.
Significant fee types include credit presentation of items of income and expenses that is, non-owner card related services fees such as interchange, late payment and balance changes in equity in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, transfer fees.
and requiring non-owner changes in equity to be presented in a performance statement.
The Group has elected to present two The Group receives insurance commission from the sale of general statements: a Group Income Statement and a Group Statement of insurance policies, which is dependent on the profitability of the underlying Comprehensive Income.
The consolidated financial information has insurance policies.
been prepared under the revised disclosure requirements.
There was no impact on the results or net assets of the Group.
Due to the adoption Clubcard and loyalty initiatives of IFRIC 13 and the amendments to IFRS 2, a Group Balance Sheet as The cost of Clubcard and loyalty initiatives is treated as a deduction from at 24 February 2008 has been presented as required by IAS 1 revised sales and part of the fair value of the consideration received is deferred and when there is a retrospective restatement.
subsequently recognised over the period that the awards are redeemed.
Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 requires The fair value of the points awarded is determined with reference to the enhanced disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
fair value to the customer and considers factors such as redemption via Clubcard deals versus money-off-in-store including Double Up and Sale and repurchase agreement Tesco Bank redemption rate.
In order to align with emerging industry practice the Treasury Bills and related Medium Term Notes previously recognised have been restated in Computers for Schools and Sport for Schools and Club vouchers are issued Group Balance Sheet as at 28 February 2009.
These balances arose as a by Tesco for redemption by participating schools clubs and are part of our result of a securitisation and associated sale and repurchase agreement overall Community Plan.
The cost of the redemption i. e. meeting the entered into as part of the Special Liquidity Scheme during the year obligation attached to the vouchers is treated as a cost rather than a ended 28 February 2009.
The effect of the change in the prior year is a deduction from sales.
reduction in loans and advances to banks and other financial assets of 588m, with a related reduction in current borrowings.
Other income Finance income, excluding income arising from financial services, is IFRS 3 Business combinations recognised in the period to which it relates using the effective interest rate Under IFRS 3 Business Combinations, any adjustments to the provisional method.
Dividends are recognised when a legal entitlement to receive fair values allocated within 12 months of an acquisition date are calculated payment arises.
as if the fair value at the acquisition date had been recognised from that date.
As a result, goodwill relating to the following acquisitions has Operating profit been restated: Operating profit is stated after profit arising on property-related items but before the share of results of joint ventures and associates, finance income Homever acquired 30 September 2008 the net impact of the and finance costs.
restatement is an increase in goodwill of 14m, increase in trade and other receivables of 22m, increase in trade and other payables Property, plant and equipment of 2m and increase in non-current provisions of 34m.
Property, plant and equipment assets are carried at cost less accumulated Tesco Bank acquired on 19 December 2008 the net impact of the depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
restatement is an increase in goodwill of 35m, increase in deferred tax assets of 28m, increase in non-current provisions of 99m and Property, plant and equipment assets are depreciated on a straight-line a decrease in retained earnings of 36m.
basis to their residual value over their anticipated useful economic lives.
Revenue The following depreciation rates are applied for the Group: Retailing f reehold and leasehold buildings with greater than 40 years unexpired Revenue consists of sales through retail outlets.
at 2.5% of cost: Revenue is recorded net of returns, relevant vouchers offers and valueleasehold properties with less than 40 years unexpired are depreciated added taxes, when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have by equal annual instalments over the unexpired period of the lease: and been transferred to the buyer.
Relevant vouchers offers include: money-off plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings and motor vehicles at rates coupons, conditional spend vouchers and offers such as buy one get one varying from 9% to 50%.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful Commission income is recorded based on the terms of the contracts and lives on the same basis as owned assets or, when shorter, over the term of is recognised when the service is provided.
Financial Services All property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment in Revenue consists of interest, fees and commission receivable.
accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans and receivables is determined using the effective interest rate method.
This is the method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or for a 76 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial statements Note 1 Accounting policies continued Borrowing costs The Group recognises intangible assets as part of business combinations at Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construction fair value on the date of acquisition.
The determination of these fair values of qualifying assets are capitalised.
Qualifying assets are those that is based upon managements judgement and includes assumptions on the necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended timing and amount of future incremental cash flows generated by the use.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the Group Income assets acquired and the selection of an appropriate cost of capital.
The Statement in finance costs, excluding those arising from financial services, useful lives of intangible assets are estimated, and amortisation charged in the period in which they occur.
For Tesco Bank finance cost on financial on a straight-line basis.
liabilities is determined using the effective interest rate method and is recognised in cost of sales.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets net Investment property liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, joint venture or associate at the Investment property is property held to earn rental income and or for date of acquisition.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value capital appreciation rather than for the purpose of Group operating of the Groups share of the net assets net liabilities of the acquired entity activities.
Investment property assets are carried at cost less accumulated i. e. a discount on acquisition then the difference is credited to the Group depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
The depreciation Income Statement in the period of acquisition.
policies for investment property are consistent with those described for owner-occupied property.
At the acquisition date of a subsidiary, goodwill acquired is recognised as an asset and is allocated to each of the cash-generating units expected to Leasing benefit from the business combinations synergies and to the lowest level Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease at which management monitors the goodwill.
Goodwill arising on the transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
acquisition of joint ventures and associates is included within the carrying All other leases are classified as operating leases.
The Group as a lessor Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually by assessing the Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit to which the goodwill receivables at the amount of the Groups net investment in the leases.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell, Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a and value in use.
When the recoverable amount of the cash-generating constant periodic rate of return on the Groups net investment in the lease.
unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement over the term of the relevant lease.
and is not subsequently reversed.
The Group as a lessee On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the attributable Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease on disposal.
payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability is included in the Group Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 29 February 2004 the date of Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction transition to IFRS was retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject of the lease obligations so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to the reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been restated and will not Group Income Statement.
be included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Group Income Intangible assets Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Acquired intangible assets Acquired intangible assets, such as software, pharmacy licences, customer Sale and leaseback relationships, contracts and brands, are measured initially at cost and are A sale and leaseback transaction is one where a vendor sells an asset and amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, at immediately reacquires the use of that asset by entering into a lease with 2%-100% of cost per annum.
The accounting treatment of the sale and leaseback depends upon the substance of the transaction by applying the lease classification Internally-generated intangible assets Research and development principles described above and whether or not the sale was made at the expenditure assets fair value.
Research costs are expensed as incurred.
For sale and finance leasebacks, any apparent profit or loss from the Development expenditure incurred on an individual project is carried sale is deferred and amortised over the lease term.
For sale and operating forward only if all the criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets are leasebacks, generally the assets are sold at fair value, and accordingly met, namely: the profit or loss from the sale is recognised immediately in the Group a n asset is created that can be identified such as software or new Income Statement.
processes : Following initial recognition, the lease treatment is consistent with those i t is probable that the asset created will generate future economic principles described above.
benefits: and t he development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Business combinations and goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase Following the initial recognition of development expenditure, the cost method.
is amortised over the projects estimated useful life, usually at 14%-25% of cost per annum.
On acquisition, the assets including intangible assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of an acquired entity are measured at their fair value.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
If such indication exists, the recoverable Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 77 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 1 Accounting policies continued amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of Share-based payments the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash Employees of the Group receive part of their remuneration in the form flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions or asset belongs.
in exchange for entitlements to cash payments based on the value of the shares cash-settled transactions.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell, and value in use.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated at the grant unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount date using the Black-Scholes model.
In accordance with IFRS 2 Shareof the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Based Payment, the resulting cost is charged to the Group Income An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Statement over the vesting period.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of Taxation the recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does The tax expense included in the Group Income Statement consists of not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no current and deferred tax.
impairment loss had been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as a Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, credit to the Group Income Statement immediately.
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Tax is recognised in the Group Income Statement except to the Other investments extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income Other investments in the Group Balance Sheet comprise loan receivable or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised other comprehensive and available-for-sale financial assets.
Refer to the financial instruments income or equity, respectively.
accounting policy for further detail.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, Loan receivables are recognised at amortised cost and available-for-sale providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of financial assets are recognised at fair value.
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Inventories Inventories comprise goods held for resale and properties held for, or in the Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that have been enacted or course of, development and are valued at the lower of cost and fair value substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged less costs to sell using the weighted average cost basis.
or credited in the Group Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive income, in Short-term investments which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity, or other Short-term investments in the Group Balance Sheet consist of deposits comprehensive income, respectively.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that Cash and cash equivalents taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary Cash and cash equivalents in the Group Balance Sheet consist of cash at differences can be utilised.
bank, in hand and demand deposits with banks together with short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that Non-current assets held for sale sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if be recovered.
their carrying amount will be recovered through sale rather than continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when there highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate is a legally enforceable right to set-off current taxation assets against sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale current taxation liabilities and it is the intention to settle these on a net basis.
and it should be expected to be completed within one year from the date of classification.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to Pensions and similar obligations the Group Income Statement for the period.
The Group accounts for pensions and other post-employment benefits principally private healthcare under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated into Pounds Sterling according to the functional currency concept of IAS 21 The Effects In respect of defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
Since the majority of consolidated present value using the projected unit credit method whilst plan assets companies operate as independent entities within their local economic are recorded at fair value.
The operating and financing costs of such plans environment, their respective local currency is the functional currency.
are recognised separately in the Group Income Statement: service costs Therefore, assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries denominated in are spread systematically over the expected service lives of employees and foreign currencies are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the date financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial of the Group Balance Sheet: profits and losses are translated into Pounds gains and losses are recognised immediately in the Group Statement of Sterling at average exchange rates for the relevant accounting periods.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are Payments to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense recognised as income or expenses in the period in which the operation as they fall due.
78 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial statements Note 1 Accounting policies continued Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign period the amount of the impairment loss reduces and the reduction entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and can be ascribed to an event after the impairment was recognised, the translated at the closing rate.
previously recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
Once an impairment loss has been recognised on a financial asset or group of Financial instruments financial assets, interest income is recognised on the carrying amount Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups using the rate of interest at which estimated future cash flows were Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual discounted in measuring impairment.
Loan impairment provisions are established on a portfolio basis taking Trade receivables into account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience, credit Trade receivables are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially at scores and defaults based on portfolio trends.
The most significant fair value, and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest factors in establishing the provisions are the expected loss rates and the rate method, reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated related average life.
The portfolios include credit card receivables and irrecoverable amounts.
The future credit quality of these portfolios is subject to uncertainties that could cause actual credit losses to differ Investments materially from reported loan impairment provisions.
These uncertainties Investments are recognised at trade date.
Investments are classified as include the economic environment, notably interest rates and their either held for trading or available-for-sale, and are recognised at fair value.
effect on customer spending, the unemployment level, payment behaviour and bankruptcy trends.
There are no investments classified as held for trading.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or instrument is any contract that gives a residual interest in the assets of loss previously recognised in equity is included in the net result for the the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Interest calculated using the effective interest rate method is recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Dividends on an  borrowings sale equity instrument are recognised in the Group Income Statement Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at when the entitys right to receive payment is established.
fair value, net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost Loans and advances with any difference between cost and redemption value being Loans and advances are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or recognised in the Group Income Statement over the period of the determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and borrowings on an effective interest basis.
include amounts due from customers and amounts due from other banks.
The Group has no intention of trading these loans and advances and Trade payables consequently they are not classified as held for trading or designated Trade payables are non interest-bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
as fair value through profit and loss.
Loans and advances are initially recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
Subsequent Equity instruments to initial recognition, these assets are carried at amortised cost using the Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds effective interest method less any impairment losses.
Income from these received, net of direct issue costs.
financial assets is calculated on an effective yield basis and is recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure Impairment of loans and advances to foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity risks arising from At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of operating, financing and investing activities.
The Group does not hold its loans and advances to determine whether there is any indication that or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes, however, those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
An impairment loss has if derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting they are accounted for been incurred if there is objective evidence that an event or events since as such.
initial recognition of the asset have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined by If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset reference to market values for similar financial instruments, by or group of financial assets classified as loans and advances has been discounted cash flows, or by the use of option valuation models.
Where incurred, the Group measures the amount of the loss as the difference derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses between the carrying amount of the asset or group of assets and the on remeasurement are immediately recognised in the Group Income present value of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of Statement.
Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition assets discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at initial of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge recognition.
Impairment losses are assessed individually for financial assets relationship and the item being hedged.
that are individually significant and collectively for assets that are not individually significant.
In making collective assessments of impairment, In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to financial assets are grouped into portfolios on the basis of similar risk document from inception the relationship between the item being characteristics.
Future cash flows from these portfolios are estimated on hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to the basis of the contractual cash flows and historical loss experience for document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between assets with similar credit risk characteristics.
Historical loss experience is the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the adjusted, on the basis of current observable data, to reflect the effects of hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness current conditions not affecting the period of historical experience.
testing is performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Group Income Statement and the carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial assets reduced Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of more than one by establishing an allowance for impairment losses.
If in a subsequent year from the balance sheet date are disclosed as non-current.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 79 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 1 Accounting policies continued Fair value hedging Provisions Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a obligation as a result of a past event, for which it is probable that a transfer recognised asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and where are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Group a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Income Statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Provisions for onerous leases are recognised when the Group believes that the unavoidable costs of meeting the lease obligations exceed the Derivative financial instruments qualifying for fair value hedge accounting economic benefits expected to be received under the lease.
Where are principally interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps.
material, these leases are discounted to their present value.
Provisions for dilapidation costs are recognised on a lease by lease basis.
Cash flow hedging Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when Other recent accounting developments they hedge the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that are either Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2010 or issued attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or and early adopted: liability, or a highly probable forecasted transaction.
In preparing the Group financial statements for the current year, the Group has adopted the following new and amended standards and The effective element of any gain or loss from remeasuring the derivative interpretations which have no impact on the results or net assets of the instrument is recognised directly in equity.
Group unless otherwise stated : The associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and A mendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs, effective for annual periods recognised in the Group Income Statement in the same period or periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The standard has been revised to during which the hedged transaction affects the Group Income Statement.
require capitalisation of borrowing costs when such costs relate to a The classification of the effective portion when recognised in the Group qualifying asset.
Income Statement is the same as the classification of the hedged A mendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 transaction.
Any element of the remeasurement of the derivative Presentation of Financial Statements Puttable Instruments and instrument which does not meet the criteria for an effective hedge is Instruments with Obligations Arising on Liquidation, effective for annual recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement within finance periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. income or costs.
A mendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Derivative instruments qualifying for cash flow hedging are principally Presentation on Classification of Rights Issues, effective for annual forward foreign exchange transactions and interest rate swaps.
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
A mendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of IFRSs and IAS 27 Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Cost of an or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge Investment of a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate, accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the 1 January 2009. forecasted transaction occurs or the original hedged item affects the Group Income Statement.
If a forecasted hedged transaction is no longer I FRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives and IAS 39 Financial expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Embedded Derivatives transferred to the Group Income Statement.
amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008.
Net investment hedging I FRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Derivative financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges Requirements and their Interaction, effective for annual periods when they hedge the Groups net investment in an overseas operation.
beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
The effective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss from remeasuring the derivative instrument is recognised directly in equity.
Any ineffective IFRI C 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, effective for element is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.
Gains annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Group Income I FRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, effective Statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
for annual periods beginning on or after 1 October 2008.
Derivative instruments qualifying for net investment hedging are Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective and principally forward foreign exchange transactions.
under review as to their impact on the Group: A mendments to IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment Group Cash-Settled Treatment of agreements to acquire minority interests Transactions, effective for annual periods beginning on or after The Group has entered into a number of agreements to purchase the 1January 2010.
In addition to incorporating IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2, remaining shares of subsidiaries with minority shareholdings.
and IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions, the amendments expand on the guidance of IFRIC 11 to address the Under IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, the net present value of classification of group arrangements that were not covered by that the expected future payments are shown as a financial liability.
The new guidance is not expected to have a material of each period, the valuation of the liability is reassessed with any changes impact on the Groups financial statements.
recognised in the Group Income Statement within finance income or costs for the year.
Where the liability is in a currency other than Pounds Sterling, I AS 27 revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, the liability has been designated as a net investment hedge.
Any change in effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The the value of the liability resulting from changes in exchange rates is revised standard requires the effects of all transactions with nonrecognised directly in equity.
controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control and these transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses.
The standard also specifies the accounting when control of an entity is lost.
Any remaining interest in the entity is remeasured to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement.
The Group will apply IAS 27 revised prospectively to transactions with noncontrolling interests from 28 February 2010.
80 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial statements Note 1 Accounting policies continued IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations, effective for business IAS 19 Income Statement charge for pensions Under IAS 19 combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning Employee Benefits, the cost of providing pension benefits in the of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009. future is discounted to a present value at the corporate bond yield The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to rates applicable on the last day of the previous financial year.
business combinations, with some significant changes, including: all Corporate bond yield rates vary over time which in turn creates payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at the volatility in the Group Income Statement and Group Balance Sheet.
acquisition date, with the contingent payments that are classified as IAS 19 also increases the charge for young pension schemes, such as debt subsequently remeasured through the Group Income Statement.
Tescos, by requiring the use of rates which do not take into account There is a choice on an  basis to measure the the future expected returns on the assets held in the pension scheme non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the nonwhich will fund pension liabilities as they fall due.
The sum of these controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirers net assets.
two effects can make the IAS 19 charge disproportionately higher and All acquisition-related costs should be expensed.
The Group will apply more volatile than the cash contributions the Group is required to IFRS 3 revised prospectively to all business combinations from make in order to fund all future liabilities.
Therefore, within underlying 28February 2010. profit we have included the normal cash contributions for pensions but excluded the volatile element of IAS 19 to represent what the Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Group believes to be a fairer measure of the cost of providing postMeasurement Eligible Hedged Items, effective for annual periods employment benefits.
beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The amendment provides clarification on how the principles that determine whether a hedged risk or portion I AS 17 Leases impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods of cash flows is eligible for designation should be applied in particular The amount charged to the Group Income Statement in respect of situations.
operating lease costs and incentives is expected to increase significantly as the Group expands its international business.
The leases have been IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, effective for annual periods beginning on structured in a way to increase annual lease costs as the businesses or after 1 January 2013.
This is the first part of a new standard on expand.
IAS 17 Leases requires the total cost of a lease to be classification and measurement of financial assets that will replace IAS 39. recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, Amendment to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, effective for annual irrespective of the actual timing of the cost.
The impact of this periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011. treatment in 2010 was a charge of 41m 2009 27m to the Group Income Statement after deducting the impact of the straight-line IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners, effective for treatment recognised as rental income within share of post-tax profits annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. of joint ventures and associates.
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers, effective for transfers of I FRS 3 Amortisation charge from intangible assets arising on assets from customers received on or after 1 July 2009. acquisition Under IFRS 3 Business Combinations, intangible assets IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, are separately identified and valued.
The intangible assets are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010. required to be amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives and as such is a non-cash charge that does not reflect The Group continually reviews amendments to the standards made under the underlying performance of the business acquired.
the IASBs annual improvements project.
IFRI C 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes This new interpretation requires the fair value of customer loyalty awards to be measured Use of non-GAAP profit measures underlying profit before tax as a separate component of a sales transaction.
The underlying profit The Directors believe that underlying profit before tax and underlying measure removes this fair value allocation to present underlying diluted earnings per share measures provide additional useful information business performance, and to reflect the performance of the for shareholders on underlying trends and performance.
These measures operating segments as measured by management.
are used for internal performance analysis.
Underlying profit is not defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with other E xceptional items Due to their significance and special nature, companies adjusted profit measures.
It is not intended to be a substitute certain other items which do not reflect the Groups underlying for, or superior to IFRS measurements of profit.
performance have been excluded from underlying profit.
These gains or losses can have a significant impact on both absolute profit and The adjustments made to reported profit before tax are: profit trends: consequently, they are excluded from the underlying profit of the Group.
For the year ended 27 February 2010, exceptional IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments fair value remeasurements items are as follows: Under IAS 32 and IAS 39, the Group applies hedge accounting to its various hedge relationships when allowed under the rules of IAS 39 I AS 36 Impairment of goodwill arising on acquisitions the carrying and when practical to do so.
Sometimes the Group is unable to apply value of goodwill relating to Japan was not fully recoverable, hedge accounting to the arrangements but continues to enter into resulting in an impairment charge of 131m 2009 nil, and as these arrangements as they provide certainty or active management such is a non-cash charge that does not reflect the underlying of the exchange rates and interest rates applicable to the Group.
The recoverable amount for Japan The Group believes these arrangements remain effective and was based on value in use, calculated from cash flow projections for economically and commercially viable hedges despite the inability five years using data from the Groups latest internal forecasts, the to apply hedge accounting.
results of which are reviewed by the Board.
Where hedge accounting is not applied to certain hedging Restructuring costs These relate to certain costs associated with arrangements, the reported results reflect the movement in fair value of the Groups restructuring activities.
For the year ended 27 February related derivatives due to changes in foreign exchange and interest 2010, the Group incurred 33m 2009 nil, relating to rates.
In addition, at each period end, any gain or loss accruing on open restructuring activities.
contracts is recognised in the Group Income Statement for the period, regardless of the expected outcome of the hedging contract on There were no exceptional items in 2009. termination.
This may mean that the Group Income Statement charge is highly volatile, whilst the resulting cash flows may not be as volatile.
The underlying profit measure removes this volatility to help better identify underlying business performance.
During 2010 there was no impact 2009 10m of the IAS 32 and IAS 39 charge arose in the share of post-tax profit of joint ventures and associates, with the remainder in finance income costs.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 81 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 2 Segmental reporting IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be determined based on the Groups internal reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
The CODM has been determined to be the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors as it is primarily responsible for the allocation of resources to segments and the assessment of performance of the segments.
Previously, segments were determined and presented in accordance with IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
The CODM uses trading profit, as reviewed at monthly Executive Committee meetings as the key measure of the segments results as it reflects the segments underlying trading performance for the period under evaluation.
Trading profit is a consistent measure within the Group.
Segmental trading profit is an adjusted measure of operating profit, which measures the performance of each segment before exceptional items goodwill impairment and restructuring charges, profit arising on property-related items, impact on leases of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods, amortisation charges from intangible assets arising on acquisition, adjustments to fair value of customer loyalty awards and replaces the IAS 19 pension charge with the normal cash contributions for pensions.
On the adoption of IFRS 8, the Group revised its operating and reporting segments.
The Groups operating segments were previously defined geographically UK, Rest of Europe, Asia and US.
The Groups operations retail and retailing services are managed by geography, with Tesco Bank as a separate reporting segment because of its different regulatory environment.
Accordingly, the segments under IFRS 8 are UK, Rest of Europe ROE comprises Republic of Ireland, Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Turkey, Asia comprising Thailand, South Korea, Malaysia, China, Japan and India, US and Tesco Bank.
Comparative information has been restated to reflect these new segments.
Segment assets include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated is comprised mainly of derivative receivables, interest-bearing loan receivables and taxation-related assets.
Inter-segment turnover between the operating segments is not material.
The segment results for the year ended 27 February 2010, for the year ended 28 February 2009 and the reconciliation of the segment measures to the respective statutory items included in the consolidated financial information are as follows: Total at Total Tesco constant Foreign at actual Year ended 27 February 2010 UK ROE Asia US Bank exchange exchange exchange At constant exchange rates m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Sales inc. VAT excluding IFRIC 13 42,254 9,979 8,737 324 860 62,154 383 62,537 Revenue excluding IFRIC 13 39,104 8,704 8,148 319 860 57,135 367 57,502 Effect of IFRIC 13 546 19 25 590 2 592 Revenue 38,558 8,685 8,123 319 860 56,545 365 56,910 Trading profit loss 2,413 466 422 151 250 3,400 12 3,412 Trading margin 6.2% 5.4% 5.2% 47.3% 29.1% 5.9% 5.9% Total Tesco at actual Year ended 27 February 2010 UK ROE Asia US Bank exchange At actual exchange rates m m m m m m Continuing operations Sales inc. VAT excluding IFRIC 13 42,254 9,997 9,072 354 860 62,537 Revenue excluding IFRIC 13 39,104 8,724 8,465 349 860 57,502 Effect of IFRIC 13 546 20 26 592 Revenue 38,558 8,704 8,439 349 860 56,910 Trading profit loss 2,413 474 440 165 250 3,412 Trading margin 6.2% 5.4% 5.2% 47.3% 29.1% 5.9% Total at Total Tesco constant Foreign at actual Year ended 28 February 2009 UK ROE Asia US Bank exchange exchange exchange At constant exchange rates m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Sales inc. VAT excluding IFRIC 13 41,357 8,373 7,020 181 163 57,094 2,332 59,426 Revenue excluding IFRIC 13 38,028 7,335 6,552 179 163 52,257 2,070 54,327 Effect of IFRIC 13 378 26 18 422 7 429 Revenue 37,650 7,309 6,534 179 163 51,835 2,063 53,898 Trading profit loss 2,309 411 345 123 68 3,010 76 3,086 Trading margin 6.1% 5.6% 5.3% 68.7% 41.7% 5.8% 5.7% Trading margin is based on revenue excluding IFRIC 13.
82 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial statements Note 2 Segmental reporting continued Total Tesco at actual Year ended 28 February 2009 UK ROE Asia US Bank exchange At actual exchange rates m m m m m m Continuing operations Sales inc. VAT excluding IFRIC 13 41,357 10,120 7,578 208 163 59,426 Revenue excluding IFRIC 13 38,028 8,862 7,068 206 163 54,327 Effect of IFRIC 13 378 31 20 429 Revenue 37,650 8,831 7,048 206 163 53,898 Trading profit loss 2,309 496 355 142 68 3,086 Trading margin 6.1% 5.6% 5.0% 68.9% 41.7% 5.7% Trading margin is based on revenue excluding IFRIC 13.
Reconciliation of trading profit to profit before tax 2010 2009 Restated m m Trading profit for reportable segments 3,412 3,086 Adjustments for: Profit arising on property-related items 377 236 IAS 19 Non-cash Group Income Statement charge for pensions 24 52 IAS 17 Leases impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods 51 36 IFRS 3 Business Combinations amortisation charge from intangible assets arising on acquisition 127 32 IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes fair value of awards 14 33 Exceptional items: IAS 36 Impairment of goodwill arising on acquisitions 131 Restructuring costs 33 Operating profit 3,457 3,169 Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures and associates 33 110 Finance income 265 116 Finance costs 579 478 Profit before tax 3,176 2,917 Taxation 840 779 Profit for the year 2,336 2,138 Segment assets Total Tesco Other at actual UK ROE Asia US Bank unallocated exchange At 27 February 2010 m m m m m m m Total segment non-current assets 14,741 6,588 7,115 790 3,738 1,286 34,258 Total segment non-current assets includes: Investments in joint ventures and associates 55 95 2 152 Total Tesco Other at actual UK ROE Asia US Bank unallocated exchange At 28 February 2009 m m m m m m m Total segment non-current assets 15,441 5,748 5,883 721 2,748 1,467 32,008 Restatement of acquisitions through business combinations 14 63 77 Total segment non-current assets restated 15,441 5,748 5,897 721 2,811 1,467 32,085 Total segment non-current assets includes: Investments in joint ventures and associates 49 13 62 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 83 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 2 Segmental reporting continued Other segment information Total Tesco at actual UK ROE Asia US Bank exchange Year ended 27 February 2010 m m m m m m Capital expenditure including acquisitions through business combinations : Property, plant and equipment 1,485 518 736 141 44 2,924 Investment property 8 8 16 Goodwill and other intangible assets 124 21 91 25 261 Depreciation: Property, plant and equipment 570 260 226 29 6 1,091 Investment property 8 8 16 Amortisation of intangible assets 116 20 14 127 277 Goodwill impairment losses recognised in the Group Income Statement 131 131 Impairment losses recognised in the Group Income Statement 27 18 6 51 Reversal of prior period impairment losses through the Group Income Statement 27 40 10 77 Other segment information Total Tesco at actual UK ROE Asia US Bank exchange Year ended 28 February 2009 restated m m m m m m Capital expenditure including acquisitions through business combinations : Property, plant and equipment 2,392 852 1,404 305 25 4,978 Investment property 48 152 200 Goodwill and other intangible assets 217 15 399 1,060 1,691 Depreciation: Property, plant and equipment 565 249 176 20 1 1,011 Investment property 9 16 25 Amortisation of intangible assets 99 16 6 32 153 Goodwill impairment losses recognised in the Group Income Statement Impairment losses recognised in the Group Income Statement 21 41 4 66 Reversal of prior period impairment losses through the Group Income Statement 21 50 17 88 Note 3 Income and expenses 2010 2009 From continuing operations m m Profit before tax is stated after charging crediting the following: Profit arising on property-related items 377 236 Rental income, of which 351m 2009 304m relates to investment properties 461 349 Direct operating expenses arising on rental earning investment properties 103 91 Costs of inventories recognised as an expense 42,504 40,779 Stock losses 1,000 870 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and investment property 1,107 1,036 Net reversal of impairment of property, plant and equipment and impairment of investment property 26 22 Amortisation of internally-generated development intangible assets 103 88 Amortisation of other intangibles 174 65 Operating lease expenses 927 738 Operating lease expenses include 83m 2009 81m for hire of plant and machinery.
84 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial statements Note 3 Income and expenses continued During the year, the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups auditor,  LLP, and network firms: 2010 2009 m m Audit services Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Parent Company and Group financial statements 0.6 0.6 Non-audit services Fees payable to the Companys auditor and network firms for other services: The audit of the accounts of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 3.5 3.1 Other services pursuant to such legislation 0.1 0.1 Other services relating to taxation 0.4 0.8 Other services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.1 1.3 All other services 0.6 0.6 Total auditor remuneration 5.3 6.5 In addition to the amounts shown above, the auditors received fees of 0.1m 2009 0.1m for the audit of the main Group pension scheme.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 46 and includes an explanation of how objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by  LLP.
Note 4 Employment costs, including Directors remuneration 2010 2009 Restated m m Wages and salaries 5,057 4,707 Social security costs 435 410 Post-employment benefits note 28 403 439 Share-based payments expense note 27 300 246 6,195 5,802 The average number of employees by operating segment during the year was: Average number Average number of of employees full-time equivalents Restated Restated 2010 2009 2010 2009 UK 287,266 286,092 196,604 194,135 Rest of Europe 86,642 86,760 77,847 78,914 Asia 94,536 92,773 94,248 88,099 US 3,246 2,583 3,246 2,583 Tesco Bank 404 300 393 284 Total 472,094 468,508 372,338 364,015 The comparatives have been restated to reflect Tesco Bank as a separate segment.
In 2009, Tesco Bank employees were included in the UK reporting segment.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 85 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 5 Finance income and costs 2010 2009 m m Finance income Bank interest receivable and similar income on cash and cash equivalents 114 91 Net pension finance income note 28 25 Total finance income on historical cost basis 114 116 IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments fair value remeasurements 151 Total finance income 265 116 Finance costs Interest payable on short-term bank loans and overdrafts repayable within five years 135 152 Finance charges payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 9 13 6% 125m GBP MTN 2008 2 5.25% 500m EUR MTN 2008 4 5.125% 192m GBP MTN 2009 8 10 6.625% 150m GBP MTN 2010 10 10 4.75% 750m EUR MTN 2010 25 26 3.875% 500m EUR MTN 2011 13 14 5.625% 1,500m EUR MTN 2012 74 35 5% 600m GBP MTN 2014 30 1 5.125% 600m EUR MTN 2015 27 1 a 4% RPI GBP MTN 2016 12 23 5.875% 1,500m EUR MTN 2016 72 33 5.5% 850m USD Bond 2017 23 23 5.5% 350m GBP MTN 2019 19 20 6.125% 900m GBP MTN 2022 55 1 5% 515m GBP MTN 2023 26 21 b 3.322% LPI GBP MTN 2025 11 20 6% 200m GBP MTN 2029 12 12 5.5% 200m GBP MTN 2033 11 11 c 1.982% RPI GBP MTN 2036 5 14 6.15% 1,150m USD Bond 2037 34 35 5% 300m GBP MTN 2042 15 15 5.125% 600m EUR MTN 2047 21 21 5.2% 500m GBP MTN 2057 26 26 Other MTNs 13 9 Capitalised interest note 11 155 152 Total finance costs on historical cost basis 531 400 Net pension finance cost note 28 48 IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments fair value remeasurements 78 Total finance costs 579 478 a Interest payable on the 4% RPI GBP MTN 2016 includes 1m 2009 13m of Retail Price Index RPI related amortisation.
b Interest payable on the 3.322% LPI GBP MTN 2025 includes 2m 2009 11m of RPI related amortisation.
c Interest payable on the 1.982% RPI GBP MTN 2036 includes 1m 2009 10m of RPI related amortisation.
Finance income of 20m 2009 finance costs of 30m resulted from hedge ineffectiveness.
86 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial statements Note 6 Taxation Recognised in the Group Income Statement 2010 2009 Restated m m Current tax expense UK corporation tax 566 673 Foreign tax 128 88 Adjustments in respect of prior years 91 164 603 597 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 110 110 Adjustments in respect of prior years 124 97 Change in tax rate 3 25 237 182 Total income tax expense 840 779 UK corporation tax is calculated at 28.0% 2009 28.2% of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Taxation in other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Reconciliation of effective tax charge 2010 2009 Restated m m Profit before tax 3,176 2,917 Effective tax charge at 28.0% 2009 28.2% 889 823 Effect of: Non-deductible expenses 13 190 Differences in overseas taxation rates 93 111 Adjustments in respect of prior years 33 67 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 5 31 Change in tax rate 3 25 Total income tax charge for the year 840 779 Effective tax rate 26.4% 26.7% Tax on items credited directly to equity 2010 2009 m m Current tax credit on: Share-based payments 15 46 Deferred tax credit on: Share-based payments 3 14 Total tax on items credited to equity 18 60 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 2010 2009 m m Current tax charge credit on: Foreign exchange movements 33 199 Deferred tax credit on: Pensions 87 176 Total tax on items credited to other comprehensive income 54 375 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 87 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 6 Taxation continued Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax assets liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior year: Other Accelerated Retirement Short-term pre post tax benefit Share-based timing IAS 32 and tax temporary depreciation obligation payments differences Tax losses IAS 39 differences Total m m m m m m m m At 23 February 2008 restated 1,068 233 76 36 12 13 11 687 Charge credit to the Group Income Statement 194 7 46 70 1 8 12 182 Credit directly to equity 14 14 Credit to other comprehensive income 176 176 Acquisition of subsidiaries 12 14 42 40 Foreign exchange translation 3 1 2 3 7 12 At 28 February 2009 restated 1,247 417 44 90 16 47 6 627 Charge credit to the Group Income Statement 257 7 9 7 21 11 1 237 Credit directly to equity 3 3 Credit to other comprehensive income 87 87 Acquisition of subsidiaries 2 2 Foreign exchange and other movements 8 8 2 3 15 At 27 February 2010 1,496 511 56 91 41 36 4 757 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2010 2009 Restated m m Deferred tax assets 38 49 Deferred tax liabilities 795 676 757 627 The impact of adopting IFRIC 13 on the 2009 opening balance sheet was an 11m reduction in deferred tax liabilities.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures, because the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group and no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
The temporary difference unrecognised at the year end amounted to 2,766m 2009 1,726m.
Furthermore the introduction of a dividend exemption in the UK tax legislation with effect from 1 July 2009 means that earnings can be remitted from certain subsidiary undertakings where no tax will be payable on repatriation.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits : 2010 2009 m m Deductible temporary differences 1 12 Tax losses 286 192 287 204 As at 27 February 2010, the Group has unused trading tax losses of 1,019m 2009 744m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 142m 2009 58m of such losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining 877m 2009 686m due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
Included in unrecognised tax losses are losses of 297m 2009 32m in 2013 that will expire in 2014 and 550m 2009 647m between 2014 and 2029 that will expire between 2015 and 2030.
Other losses will be carried forward indefinitely.
In addition, the Group has UK capital losses of 342m 2009 310m in respect of which no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
Note 7 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 2010 2009 m m Non-current assets classified as held for sale 373 398 The non-current assets classified as held for sale consist mainly of properties in the United Kingdom due to be sold within one year.
88 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial statements Note 8 Dividends 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 27 February 2010 28 February 2009 pence share m pence share m Amounts recognised as distributions to owners in the year: Final dividend for the prior financial year 8.39 660 7.70 603 Interim dividend for the current financial year 3.89 308 3.57 280 12.28 968 11.27 883 Proposed final dividend for the current financial year 9.16 731 8.39 662 The proposed final dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 19 April 2010 and is subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The proposed dividend has not been included as a liability as at 27 February 2010, in accordance with IAS 10 Events After the Balance Sheet Date.
It will be paid on 9 July 2010 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 1 May 2010.
Note 9 Earnings per share and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year adjusted for the effects of potentially dilutive options.
The dilution effect is calculated on the full exercise of all potentially dilutive ordinary share options granted by the Group, including performance-based options which the Group considers to have been earned.
All operations are continuing for the years presented.
52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 27 February 2010 28 February 2009 Restated Potentially Potentially dilutive dilutive Basic share options Diluted Basic share options Diluted Profit m 2,327 2,327 2,133 2,133 Weighted average number of shares millions 7,933 39 7,972 7,859 53 7,912 Earnings per share pence 29.33 0.14 29.19 27.14 0.18 26.96 There have been no transactions involving ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of approval of these financial statements which would significantly change the earnings per share calculations shown above.
Reconciliation of non-GAAP underlying diluted earnings per share 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 27 February 2010 28 February 2009 Restated m pence share m pence share Profit 2,327 29.19 2,133 26.96 Adjustments for: IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments fair value remeasurements 151 1.90 88 1.11 Total IAS 19 Non-cash Group Income Statement charge for pensions 24 0.30 27 0.34 IAS 17 Leases impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods 41 0.52 27 0.34 IFRS 3 Amortisation charge from intangible assets arising on acquisition 127 1.59 32 0.41 IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes fair value of awards 14 0.18 33 0.41 Exceptional items: IAS 36 Impairment of goodwill arising on acquisitions 131 1.64 Restructuring costs 33 0.41 Tax effect of adjustments at the effective rate of tax 2010 25.4% : 2009 26.7% 22 0.27 56 0.70 Underlying earnings from operations 2,524 31.66 2,284 28.87 The effective tax rate of 25.4% excludes the adjustment for goodwill impairment.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 89 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets Internally Pharmacy generated and Other development software intangible costs licences assets Goodwill Total m m m m m Cost At 28 February 2009 879 310 318 3,283 4,790 Restatement of acquisitions through business combinations 49 49 At 28 February 2009 restated 879 310 318 3,332 4,839 Foreign currency translation 9 11 14 136 170 Additions 111 50 2 98 261 Reclassification across categories 136 1 1 1 137 Disposals 2 2 1 5 At 27 February 2010 1,133 368 335 3,566 5,402 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 28 February 2009 426 197 42 98 763 Foreign currency translation 3 6 3 1 13 Amortisation for the year 103 43 131 277 Reclassification across categories 42 3 4 1 42 Impairment charge for the year 131 131 Disposals 1 1 At 27 February 2010 574 242 180 229 1,225 Net carrying value At 27 February 2010 559 126 155 3,337 4,177 At 28 February 2009 restated 453 113 276 3,234 4,076 Cost At 23 February 2008 691 278 48 1,927 2,944 Foreign currency translation 6 7 4 205 214 Additions 192 26 2 220 Acquisitions through business combinations restated 270 1,201 1,471 Reclassification across categories 2 2 Disposals 8 1 1 10 At 28 February 2009 restated 879 310 318 3,332 4,839 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 23 February 2008 340 163 7 98 608 Foreign currency translation 4 4 Amortisation for the year 88 31 34 153 Reclassification across categories 1 1 Disposals 1 1 2 At 28 February 2009 restated 426 197 42 98 763 Net carrying value At 28 February 2009 restated 453 113 276 3,234 4,076 At 23 February 2008 351 115 41 1,829 2,336 There are no intangible assets, other than goodwill, with indefinite useful lives.
90 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial statements Note 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Impairment of goodwill Goodwill arising on business combinations is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to groups of cash-generating units according to the level at which management monitor that goodwill.
Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units are based on the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
In 2010, recoverable amounts are based on value in use.
Value in use is calculated from cash flow projections for generally five years using data from the Groups latest internal forecasts, the results of which are reviewed by the Board.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding discount rates, growth rates and expected changes in margins.
Management estimate discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect the current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash-generating units.
Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past experience and expectations of future changes in the market.
Given the current economic climate, a sensitivity analysis has been performed in assessing the recoverable amounts of goodwill.
The carrying amount for Japan has been reduced to its recoverable amount through the recognition of an impairment loss of 131m against goodwill.
This has been included in cost of sales in the Group Income Statement.
The key assumptions for Japan include a long-term growth rate of 1.1% 2009 1.5% and a pre-tax discount rate of 6.1% 2009 7.3%.
The forecasts are extrapolated beyond five years based on estimated long-term average growth rates of generally 1% to 4% 2009 2% to 10%.
In the case of Poland, it is reasonably possible that a change in key assumptions would cause the goodwill to exceed its value in use.
With headroom of 46m 2009 84m and assuming a 10.6% pre-tax discount rate 2009 11.3%, a 0.3% 2009 0.4% increase in the discount rate would cause goodwill to exceed its value in use.
The pre-tax discount rates used to calculate value in use range from 6%-14% 2009 7% to 24%.
On a post-tax basis, the discount rates ranged from 4% to 13% 2009 5% to 19%.
These discount rates are derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital as adjusted for the specific risks relating to each geographical region.
In February 2010 and 2009 impairment reviews were performed by comparing the carrying value of goodwill with the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The components of goodwill are as follows: 2010 2009 Restated m m UK 645 616 Tesco Bank 802 802 Thailand 157 153 South Korea 489 392 Japan 55 196 China 594 540 Malaysia 77 76 Poland 424 354 Czech Republic 35 47 Turkey 54 53 Other 5 5 3,337 3,234 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 91 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 11 Property, plant and equipment Land and a buildings Other Total m m m Cost At 28 February 2009 22,349 7,495 29,844 Foreign currency translation 793 234 1,027 b Additions 2,189 735 2,924 Transfers 279 71 208 Classified as held for sale 2 4 6 Disposals 1,669 141 1,810 At 27 February 2010 23,385 8,398 31,783 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 28 February 2009 2,540 4,152 6,692 Foreign currency translation 80 121 201 Charge for the year 354 737 1,091 Transfers 34 48 82 Classified as held for sale 39 1 38 Disposals 178 83 261 Impairment losses 51 51 Reversal of impairment losses 74 74 At 27 February 2010 2,700 4,880 7,580 c d e Net carrying value At 27 February 2010 20,685 3,518 24,203 At 28 February 2009 19,809 3,343 23,152 f Capital work in progress included above At 27 February 2010 1,652 193 1,845 a Other assets consist of plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings and motor vehicles.
b Includes 155m 2009 152m in respect of interest capitalised, principally relating to land and building assets.
The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of finance costs capitalised during the year was 5.1% 2009 5.1%.
Interest capitalised is deducted in determining taxable profit in the year in which it is incurred.
c Net carrying value includes: i Capitalised interest at 27 February 2010 of 805m 2009 910m.
ii Assets held under finance leases which are analysed below: 2010 2009 Land and Land and a a buildings Other buildings Other m m m m Cost 139 582 121 578 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 36 430 22 390 Net carrying value 103 152 99 188 These assets are pledged as security for the finance lease liabilities.
d The net carrying value of land and buildings comprises: 2010 2009 m m Freehold 17,855 17,332 Long leasehold 50 years or more 971 1,450 Short leasehold less than 50 years 1,859 1,027 Net carrying value 20,685 19,809 e Carrying value of land and buildings includes 3m 2009 4m relating to the prepayment of lease premiums.
f Capital work in progress does not include land.
92 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial statements Note 11 Property, plant and equipment continued Land and a buildings Other Total m m m Cost At 23 February 2008 19,210 6,340 25,550 Foreign currency translation 434 191 625 b Additions 3,345 1,013 4,358 Acquisitions through business combinations 586 34 620 Reclassification across categories 305 45 260 Classified as held for sale 74 8 82 Disposals 847 120 967 At 28 February 2009 22,349 7,495 29,844 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 23 February 2008 2,280 3,483 5,763 Foreign currency translation 55 103 158 Charge for the year 352 659 1,011 Reclassification across categories 5 5 Classified as held for sale 18 3 15 Disposals 128 90 218 Impairment losses 56 56 Reversal of impairment losses 88 88 At 28 February 2009 2,540 4,152 6,692 c d e Net carrying value At 28 February 2009 19,809 3,343 23,152 At 23 February 2008 16,930 2,857 19,787 f Capital work in progress included above At 28 February 2009 1,375 159 1,534 Impairment of property, plant and equipment The Group has determined that for the purposes of impairment testing, each store is a cash-generating unit.
Cash-generating units are tested for impairment if there are indications of impairment at the balance sheet date.
Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units are mainly based on value in use, which is generally calculated from cash flow projections for five to twenty years using data from the Groups latest internal forecasts, the results of which are reviewed by the Board.
The forecasts are extrapolated beyond five years based on estimated long-term growth rates of generally 1% to 4% 2009 2% to 10%.
The pre-tax discount rates used to calculate value in use range from 6% to 14% 2009 7% to 24% depending on the specific conditions in which each store operates.
These discount rates are derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 93 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 11 Property, plant and equipment continued The following amounts have been charged credited to cost of sales in the Group Income Statement: 2010 2009 m m Impairment losses UK 27 21 Rest of Europe 18 31 Asia 6 4 51 56 Reversal of impairment losses UK 27 21 Rest of Europe 37 50 Asia 10 17 74 88 Net reversal of impairment losses 23 32 The impairment losses relate to stores whose recoverable amounts do not exceed the asset carrying values.
In all cases, impairment losses arose due to stores performing below forecasted trading levels.
The reversal of previous impairment losses arose principally due to improvements in stores performances over the last year which increased the net present value of future cash flows.
Note 12 Investment property 2010 2009 m m Cost At beginning of year 1,660 1,190 Foreign currency translation 172 24 Additions 16 114 Acquisitions through business combinations 86 Transfers 71 260 Classified as held for sale 10 Disposals 4 At end of year 1,919 1,660 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At beginning of year 121 78 Foreign currency translation 14 3 Charge for the period 16 25 Transfers 40 5 Impairment losses 10 Reversal of impairment losses 3 At end of year 188 121 Net carrying value 1,731 1,539 The net carrying value at 23 February 2008 was 1,112m.
94 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial statements Note 12 Investment property continued The following amounts have been credited charged to operating costs in the Group Income Statement: 2010 2009 m m Impairment losses Rest of Europe 10 Impairment losses 10 2010 2009 m m Reversal of impairment losses Rest of Europe 3 Reversal of impairment losses 3 Net reversal of impairment losses impairment charge 3 10 The impairment losses relate to malls whose recoverable amounts do not exceed the asset carrying values.
In all cases, impairment losses arose due to the malls performing below forecasted trading levels.
The reversal of previous impairment losses arose principally due to improvements in the performance of malls over the last year, which increased the net present value of cash flows.
The estimated fair value of the Groups investment property is 2.8bn 2009 3.2bn.
This fair value has been determined by applying an appropriate rental yield to the rentals earned by the investment property.
A valuation has not been performed by an independent valuer.
Note 13 Group entities Principal subsidiaries The Group consolidates its subsidiary undertakings and its principal subsidiaries are: Share of issued Country of incorporation ordinary share capital and principal country Business activity and voting rights of operation Tesco Stores Limited Retail 100% England a One Stop Stores Limited Retail 100% England Tesco Ireland Limited Retail 100% Republic of Ireland Tesco-Global Stores Privately Held Co. Limited Retail 99% Hungary Tesco Polska Sp.
Retail 100% Poland Tesco Stores C R a. s. Retail 100% Czech Republic Tesco Stores S R a. s. Retail 100% Slovakia a Tesco Kipa Kitle Paza rlama Ticaret five Gide Sanai A. S. Retail 93% Turkey Samsung Tesco Co. Limited Retail 94% South Korea Homever Tesco Co. Limited Retail 100% South Korea b Ek-Chai Distribution System Co. Limited Retail 86% Thailand Tesco Stores Malaysia Sdn Bhd Retail 70% Malaysia Tesco Japan Co. Limited Retail 100% Japan Shanghai Kancheng Storage Co. Limited Retail 100% Peoples Republic of China Dobbies Garden Centres PLC Retail 100% Scotland Fresh & Easy Neighborhood Market Inc Retail 100% USA a Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited trading as Tesco Bank Financial Services 100% Scotland Tesco Distribution Limited Distribution 100% England Tesco Property Holdings Limited Property 100% England Tesco International Sourcing Limited Purchasing 100% Hong Kong dunnhumby Limited Data Analysis 90% England ELH Insurance Limited formerly Tesco Insurance Limited Self-insurance 100% Guernsey Valiant Insurance Company Limited Self-insurance 100% Republic of Ireland a Held by the Parent Company all other principal subsidiaries are held by an intermediate subsidiary.
b The Group has 86% of voting rights and 39% of issued ordinary share capital in Ek-Chai Distribution System Co. Limited.
The accounting period ends of the subsidiary undertakings consolidated in these financial statements are on or around 27 February 2010.
A full list of the Groups subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the next Annual Return filed at Companies House.
There are no significant restrictions on the ability of subsidiary undertakings to transfer funds to the parent, other than those imposed by the Companies Act 2006.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 95
