Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General Information Autonomy Corporation plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006.
The registered office is at Autonomy House, Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge CB4 0WZ, UK.
Autonomy Corporation plc is the ultimate holding company of the Autonomy group of companies the group.
The nature of the groups operations and its principal activities are set out beginning on page 8.
The companys functional currency is sterling as that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the company operates.
The groups presentational currency is dollars as that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
Adoption of new and current standards In the current year, the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted.
IAS 27 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: and IAS 28 2008 Investments in Associates Adoption of these standards did not have any significant impact on the financial position or performance of the Group, or result in changes in accounting policy or additional disclosure.
The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Although their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements it may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of NonThe Interpretation provides guidance on when an entity should recognise a non-cash dividend payable, how cash Assets to Owners to measure the dividend payable and how to account for any difference between the carrying amount of the assets distributed and the carrying amount of the dividend payable when the payable is settled.
IFRS 2 amended Group The amendment clarifies the accounting for share-based payment transactions between group entities.
Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions IFRS 3 2008 Business IFRS 3 2008 has introduced additional disclosure requirements for acquisitions.
Combinations At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9................................................. Financial Instruments IAS 24 amended............................... Related Party Disclosures IAS 32 amended...............................
Classification of Rights Issues IFRIC 19.............................................. Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments IFRIC 14 amended............................ Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement Amendments to IAS 12.......................
Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets Amendments to IFRS 7.......................
Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets Improvements to IFRSs May 2010 The adoption of IFRS 9 which the Group plans to adopt for the year beginning on 1 January 2013 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of Financial Instruments.
The directors do not expect that the adoption of the other standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
Significant Accounting Policies a Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of equity investments and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the company are set out below.
The going concern basis has been adopted in preparing the financial statements, as described in more detail in note 3.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 49 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
"Significant Accounting Policies continued b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the company and entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries, together the group"" made up to 31 December each year."
Control is achieved where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated against the interests of the parent.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
c Investments in associate An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associate are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale see below.
Investments in associate are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of the associate in excess of the groups interest in the associate are not recognised.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on acquisition is credited in profit or loss in the period of acquisition.
Where a group company transacts with an associate of the group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the relevant associate.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
d Goodwill Goodwill arising on a business combination represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset on the date of acquisition and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the groups cash-generating unit expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit and goodwill is less than their combined carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous US GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at the date of transition to IFRS.
e Revenue recognition The group discloses revenue within two categories, namely sale of goods and rendering of services, as required by IAS 18.
During 2010 there has been no change to the groups revenue recognition policies in any respect.
The nature of the transactions that the group has entered into during 2010 is the same as in 2009 in all respects.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts and sales taxes.
Deferred revenues primarily relate to archiving and customer support and maintenance fees, which have been invoiced to the customer prior to the performance of these obligations.
Deferred revenue is recognised rateably over the term of the contract, usually over a period of one to three years.
50 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Significant Accounting Policies continued i Sale of goods The group sells its products as licenses to resellers, OEMs and direct to end-users together with associated support and maintenance.
In addition, the group also sells some of its products on a subscription basis.
Revenues from software license agreements are recognised where there is persuasive evidence of an agreement with a customer contract and or binding purchase order, delivery of the software has taken place, collectability is probable and the fee has been contractually agreed and is not subject to adjustment or refund i. e. is fixed and determinable.
If an acceptance period is required, revenues are recognised upon the earlier of customer acceptance or the expiration of the acceptance period.
Revenue is recognized on contracts providing that the customer passes defined credit-worthiness checks.
If significant post-delivery obligations exist or if a sale is subject to customer acceptance, revenues are deferred until no significant obligations remain or acceptance has occurred.
The group enters into OEM and reseller arrangements that typically provide for fees payable to the group based on licensing of the groups software to third party customers.
Sales are generally recognised as reported by the OEM or reseller and is based on the amount of product sold.
Sales are recognised if all products subject to resale are delivered in the current period, no right of return policy exists, collection is probable and the fee is fixed and determinable.
Revenues from customer support and maintenance are recognised rateably over the term of the support period.
If customer support and maintenance is included free or at a discount in a license agreement, these amounts are allocated out of the license fee at their fair market value based on the value established by independent sale of the customer support and maintenance to customers.
Support and maintenance consists primarily of the supply of products, such as patches and updates, to the standard software.
Product revenues from the hosted business are separated, using the residual method, into capture and archiving.
Revenues for capture are recognised in the period in which they are delivered.
Revenues for archiving are recognised over the period that the customers have access to the groups software and proprietary storage technology.
Product revenues from the hosted business relate to the execution of production operations on computers which the company runs in its data centres.
Revenues are generated from the use of our software and computers and from us maintaining the data.
Customers commit for periods between one month and up to three years.
Revenues are generated in two different ways: Paid up front, usually one to three years, in which case the group has an obligation to process the data using the groups software and archive for the contracted length of time using the groups proprietary storage technology.
Revenues are allocated between capture and archiving using the residual method, with the archiving element deferred and recognized rateably over the contracted period of archiving.
Paid on a pay-as-you-go basis, in which case the charge is based on the volumes of data ingested and stored each month.
Revenues for payas-you-go customers are recognized on a monthly basis as the product is made available to customers.
There is no deferred revenue in relation to these customers.
ii Rendering of services Consulting and training revenues are included within rendering of services.
Consulting revenues are primarily related to implementation services performed on a time and materials basis under separable service arrangements related to the installation of the groups software products.
Revenues from consulting and training services are recognised as services are performed.
If a transaction includes both license and service elements, license fee revenue is recognised upon shipment of the software, provided services do not include significant customisation or modification of the base product and the payment terms for licenses are not subject to acceptance criteria.
In cases where license fee payments are contingent upon the acceptance of services, revenues from both the license and the service elements are deferred until the acceptance criteria are met.
iii Cost of revenues Cost of license revenues includes the cost of royalties due to third party licenses, costs of product media, product duplication, hardware and manuals.
iv Interest receivable Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the group and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
f Leasing Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Significant Accounting Policies continued g Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity concerned are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into US.
dollars at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in profit or loss for the period, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are denominated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
h Profit from operations Profit from operations is stated before investment income and finance costs.
Operating costs are categorized into research and development, sales and marketing, general and administrative, and other costs.
Research and development costs comprise the costs of the research and development teams: sales and marketing costs comprise the costs of the sales force, commissions and costs of promoting new products and entering into new markets: general and administration costs comprise costs of administration and payroll costs of staff not attributable to other activities.
i Retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
j Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associate, and interests in joint ventures, except where the group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority, and the group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
52 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Significant Accounting Policies continued k Property, plant and equipment Leasehold improvements, fixtures and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than land and properties under construction, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: Leasehold improvements shorter of economic useful life and lease term Fixtures and fittings 3 5 years Computer equipment 3 5 years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
l Internally-generated intangible assets - research and development expenditure Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the groups product development is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: an asset is created that can be identified such as software and new processes : it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably: and the product from which the asset arises meets the groups criteria for technical feasibility.
Internally-generated intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, which is 3 years.
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
m Other intangible assets excluding goodwill Other intangible assets excluding goodwill are measured initially at purchase cost and are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, on the following bases: Patents, licences and trademarks 1 3 years, or contractual life if longer Purchased technology 3 7 years Customer relationships 3 11 years Brand names 3 10 years the estimated useful lives for these purchased intangible assets, acquired through acquisition, are based on the independent valuation reports prepared, with the exception of assets acquired in 2010 which are based on preliminary estimates.
n Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a re-valued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a re-valued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 53 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Significant Accounting Policies continued o Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
p Provisions Provisions are recognized when the group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
q Share-based payments The group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2004.
The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black Scholes model.
r Share-based payments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the groups balance sheet when the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
i Financial assets Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss, which are initially measured at fair value.
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, held-to-maturity investments, available-for-sale AFS financial assets and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
ii Effective interest method The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortized cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts including all fees on points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts through the expected life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets designated as at FVTPL.
iii Financial assets at FVTPL Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL where the financial asset is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL A financial asset is classified as held for trading if: it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near future: or it is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profittaking: or it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the group's documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the group is provided internally on that basis: or it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or liability to be designated as at FVTPL.
54 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 31. iv Available for sale financial assets Unlisted shares and listed redeemable notes held by the group that are traded in an active market are classified as being AFS and are stated at fair value.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 31.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity in the investments revaluation reserve with the exception of impairment losses, interest calculated using the effective interest method and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary assets, which are recognised directly in profit or loss.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is included in profit or loss for the period.
Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss when the groups right to receive the dividends is established.
The fair value of AFS monetary assets denominated in a foreign currency is determined in that foreign currency and translated at the spot rate at the balance sheet date.
The change in fair value attributable to translation differences that result from a change in amortized cost of the asset is recognised in profit or loss, and other changes are recognised in equity.
v Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
vi Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
For shares classified as AFS, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
For all other financial assets, including redeemable notes classified as AFS and finance lease receivables, objective evidence of impairment could include: significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation.
For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the groups past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period of 90 days, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
With the exception of AFS equity instruments, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortized cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
In respect of AFS equity securities, impairment losses previously recognised through profit or loss are not reversed through profit or loss.
Any increase in fair value subsequent to an impairment loss is recognised directly in equity.
vii Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 55
