Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 16.
At 31 December 2010 the groups interest in blinkx Plc remained 14% 2009: 14%.
The remaining increase in value is attributable to the movement in the blinkx Plc share price to 83.25p 2009: 17.29p.
Dr. Lynch is a non executive director of blinkx Plc.
He does not have authority or responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of that entity and does not participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of that business.
During 2010 the total value of software purchased by blinkx from Autonomy was $219,000 2009: $nil.
Quoted investments are subject to market risk and can increase or decrease in value depending on the share price of the relevant instruments.
This investment has been classified as available for sale under IAS 39, and all changes in fair value have been recognised directly in equity during the period.
No amounts 2009: $nil have been removed from equity and recognised in the income statement for the period.
The unquoted investments included above represent investments in privately owned companies.
The fair values of these investments are based on latest financial information available for each entity.
The carrying value is considered in light of the net asset value and other known factors which have an impact on the valuation of the respective entities.
An impairment charge of $nil 2009: $nil was incurred during the year.
The average credit period for trade receivables is 94 days 2009: 88 days.
The DSO calculation is derived by eliminating sales tax from the net trade receivables balance, dividing by the last quarters sales, and then multiplying by 90 days.
The group has credit risk with respect to trade receivables due from its customers.
Autonomy has over 20,000 customers spread across diverse industries and geographical areas and hence the concentration of credit risk from trade receivables is limited due to the large and broad customer base.
A large proportion of the groups customer base includes various governments and large blue-chip companies which also limits the exposure to credit risk.
The group has no material risk associated with new customers or resellers who the group has no experience of trading with.
No customer accounts for more than 10% of revenues 2009: same.
Allowance is made for bad and doubtful debts based on managements assessment of the risk of each individual debt taking into account the ageing profile, experience and circumstance.
Interest charged when amounts from customers are past due is not material.
Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable and, where appropriate, credit guarantee insurance cover is purchased.
The group does not have any debtors with renegotiated terms.
66 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
