Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Significant Accounting Policies continued viii fide-recognition of financial assets The group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire: or it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
ix Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
x Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
xi Financial liabilities All financial liabilities are classified as other financial liabilities.
xii Compound instruments The component parts of compound instruments convertible loan notes issued by the group are classified separately as financial liabilities and equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for a similar non-convertible instrument.
This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortized cost basis using the effective interest method until extinguished upon conversion or at the instruments maturity date.
The equity component is determined by deducting the amount of the liability component from the fair value of the compound instrument as a whole.
This is recognised and included in equity, net of income tax effects, and is not subsequently remeasured.
xiii Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortized cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
xiv fide-recognition of financial liabilities The group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
xv Derivative financial instruments The group does not use derivative financial instruments.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty a Critical judgements in applying the groups accounting policies In the process of applying the groups accounting policies, which are described in note 2, management have made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements apart from those involving estimations, which are discussed below.
i Revenue recognition The accounting policy set out in note 2 has been followed.
The only area where management is required to exercise judgement relates to collectability.
Management uses extensive credit checks to evaluate whether a potential customer is credit worthy prior to a sale.
If the customer does not pass the groups rigorous credit checks then the revenue is deferred and recognised only upon cash receipt from the customer.
56 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
