Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 25.
Acquisition of MicroLink LLC and CAs Information Governance Business During the first half of 2010 the group acquired 100% of the equity of MicroLink LLC.
a leading Autonomy reseller targeting U. S. state & federal government accounts and the Information Governance business asset purchase from CA Technologies.
The rationale for the acquisitions is discussed in the Chief Executives Review.
The acquisitions have been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
During 2011 the formal valuation exercise will be completed and as such the goodwill allocation remains subject to amendment.
The difference between the net cash costs set forth above and the amount of $79.5 million set forth on the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement is payments related to acquired provisions on the 2009 acquisition of Interwoven, Inc.
The cash consideration paid for MicroLink LLC was $56.9 million and for the CA Information Governance business was $19.4 million.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions is attributed to future operating synergies from the combinations.
These operational synergies are expected to arise through the following: cost synergies through elimination of duplicative general and administrative costs, marketing programs and other redundant costs: acceleration of the delivery of the next generation of unstructured information management software: provision of broader and more comprehensive offerings to customers: and additional scale and cross-selling opportunities.
Had the results of both acquisitions for the period from 1 January 2010 to the date of acquisition been included in the groups results for the year ended 31 December 2010 then group net profit would not be materially different to the reported figures.
It is not practicable to determine the effect of the acquisitions for the period from acquisition to the end of the financial period.
The groups core products and those of the acquired businesses have been integrated and the operations merged such that it is not practicable to determine the portion of the result that specifically relates to either business on a stand-alone basis.
70 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
