Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 12.
The group tests annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
62 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 13.
Goodwill continued The group is required to allocate goodwill to each cash generating unit CGU and then compile value in use calculations for each CGU.
As described in note 5 the group has only one reporting segment under IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
The acquisition and integration process adopted by the group is such that the acquired entities are rapidly integrated into the group such that it is not possible to separately identify results from acquired operations within one month of the acquisition date.
At a technical level, the companies products are rapidly integrated to enable the launch of new IDOL powered technologies.
This technical upgrading to enhanced IDOL functionality can take place within days of completion.
The acquired businesses almost immediately cease to sell their traditional products, but rather sell the newly integrated products based on IDOL.
At an organizational level, all departments are merged.
Resources are managed on a group-wide basis and reporting lines changed immediately such that functional heads e. g sales, marketing, legal, operations, etc.
manage a group-wide pool of resources and make decisions based upon information prepared on a group-wide basis.
No separate financial information is maintained for acquired operations post acquisition.
The risks and rewards of the groups operations are therefore identical across all of its virtual brands and geographies.
This is a consequence of the unique technology offering where all of the groups virtual brands are based on the same core IDOL technology and the fact that sales are made to multinational organizations and governments with the same license being deployed across regional boundaries.
Consequently the group has one CGU and all goodwill is allocated to that unit.
This is consistent with the way management monitor, and make decisions about, the business and is consistent with the approach taken in previous years.
The key assumptions used in determining the value in use are: Assumption How determined Revenues Management have used growth rates of 10% for years 1 to 5 and then 5% for years 6 to 10.
The growth rates for years 1 to 5 are prudent when compared with actual rates achieved over the last 5 years for the company, and for long term growth rates years 6 to 10, 5% is prudent when compared with the software industry average.
Costs Expenses have been assumed to remain a constant percentage of sales throughout the forecast period with minor reductions in the percentages as revenues grow given the primarily fixed cost nature of the business.
The percentages are based on 2010 levels.
The directors consider this a conservative assumption as historic results have shown that as revenues increase these percentages decline due to the operating leverage within the pure software model.
Discount rate The discount rate of 12.8% 2009: 9.2% applied to the cash flows is based on the weighted average cost of capital of the company as calculated using the industry standard formula.
Sensitivity The group has prepared a sensitivity analysis which eliminates any revenue growth and also increases the discount rate to 20%.
At these levels no impairment would be required.
Forecast period The groups impairment model covers a forecast 10 year period.
The directors consider 10 years to be an appropriate period to consider but note that it might reasonably extend beyond this period which would provide further upside sensitivity.
Based on all of the above the directors have concluded that no impairment of goodwill is required to be recorded.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 63
