Additional Information Principal Group Companies The principal companies within the groups operations are set forth below.
A list of all companies within the group can be found on our website at www.
com under the heading About Autonomy.
Company Country of Operation Function Autonomy Corporation plc England Holding company Autonomy, Inc. USA Software development and distribution Autonomy Systems Ltd England Software development and distribution etalk Corporation USA Software development and distribution Interwoven, Inc. USA Software development and distribution Meridio Holdings Limited Northern Ireland Software development and distribution Virage, Inc. USA Software development and distribution ZANTAZ, Inc. USA Software development and distribution Operating subsidiaries of the above companies have been excluded to the extent such subsidiaries operations are consolidated in the interim operating companies operations and results.
These include operating subsidiaries, providing marketing sales and support to the group, in the following countries: Australia: Belgium: Canada: China: France: Germany: Hong Kong: India: Italy: Japan: Korea: Luxembourg: Mexico: Netherlands: Norway: Singapore: South Africa: Spain: Sweden: and the UK.
All of the above entities are 100% owned.
Joint Ventures and Associates Company Country of Incorporation Holding OpenV China Holdings Company Cayman Islands 35% Registrars and Transfer Office If shareholders have any inquiries about their holding of ordinary shares, such as a change of address, change of ownership or lost share certificates, they should contact the companys registrars at the address or telephone number below.
Computershare Investor Services PLC maintain the Autonomy Corporation plc share register and holders of ordinary shares may view and update details of their shareholding via the registrars investor centre at www.
Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82, The Pavilions Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH, UK Telephone: 44 870 702 0000 email: web.
co. uk Stock Exchanges Autonomys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange under the symbol AU..
Autonomy does not maintain listings on any other stock exchanges.
Shareholder Communications The company provides a number of shareholder services online at http: www.
com content Investors, where shareholders may: register to receive electronic shareholder communications: listen to live and recorded webcasts of investor conference calls: view and or download annual reports and interim financial reports: and check the current share price.
Shareholders and other interested parties can also receive company press releases, including London Stock Exchange announcements, by registering for Autonomy news via the companys website at www.
Registering for Autonomy news will enable users to have news automatically e-mailed to them.
Topics featured in this Annual Report can be found via the Autonomy home page on the Internet http: www.
Financial results, news on Autonomy products, services and other activities can also be found via that address.
Autonomys Investor Relations Department can be reached on 44 1223 448 000 or at investor relations@autonomy.
86 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
