Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Responsibility statement financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent the management report, which is incorporated into the directors' report, company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under includes a fair review of the development and performance of the company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are business and the position of the company and the undertakings satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: By order of the Board properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the Dr. Michael R. Lynch Sushovan Hussain impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the 22 February 2011 22 February 2011 entity's financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the company's ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43
