Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 17.
Other Financial Assets continued Included in the groups trade receivables balance are debtors with a carrying amount of $76.4 million 2009: $45.8 million which are past due at the reporting date and not impaired.
Of this balance $35.4 million 2009: $12.7 million is over 90 days overdue.
The most significant impact arose from an increase in amounts due from various international government agencies, which despite increasing payment terms are reliable debtors.
The remaining balance of $191.3 million 2009: $184.4 million is not yet due.
Of this balance $16.6 million 2009: $9.2 million is due after one year.
The groups allowance for doubtful debts increased to $26 million 2009: $21.4 million.
The charge for the year, net of amounts utilized and foreign exchange movements, was $4.6 million 2009: $7.1 million.
Trade receivables that are past due are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience and any other relevant circumstances.
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable the group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated.
Accordingly, the directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
No individual debt accounts for more than 10% of this balance in either year.
Other receivables include a balance of $5.3 million 2009: $2.4 million which is due after more than one year.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to their fair value.
b Bank balances and cash Bank balances and cash comprise cash held by the group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
c Credit risk The groups principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables.
The groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the groups management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
Other than as noted in a above, the group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
The amount of credit that can be recognised in the income statement is limited under IAS12 and any remaining credit is taken to equity.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 67
