Notes to the Company Only Financial Statements 1.
Significant Accounting Policies As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the income statement of the company only is not presented as part of this annual report.
As permitted by that Act, the separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
The company has no employees other than the four non-executive directors 2009: four.
Their remuneration is shown in the groups remuneration report.
The financial statements of the company have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of equity investments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are the same as those set out in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements except as noted below.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
These company financial statements are presented in sterling as that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the company operates.
Investments in Subsidiary Undertakings The company has investments in the subsidiaries listed on page 86 which principally affected the profits or net assets of the group.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 81 Notes to the Company Only Financial Statements 5.
See note 16b of the group accounts for additional information.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
There are no past due or impaired receivable balances 2009: nil.
Convertible Loan Notes On 4 March 2010 the company raised 496,900,000 through the issuance of convertible loan notes.
The convertible loan notes were issued at an issue price of 50,000 per loan note and are convertible into ordinary shares of the company based on a share price of 20.6334, which is a 25% premium to the share price of the ordinary shares at the date the convertible loan notes were issued.
The loan notes carry an interest rate of 3.25% to be settled in cash semi-annually.
The loan notes are payable in full on 4 March 2015 if not redeemed, converted or cancelled before that date.
82 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Company Only Financial Statements 9.
Related Party Transactions All transactions are conducted on an arms length basis and the amount owed by subsidiary undertakings is disclosed in note 6.
Financial Instruments The policies of the group are discussed in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
The tables below provide the financial instruments disclosures for the company.
The following table details the companys sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in the functional currency of the entity concerned against the relevant foreign currencies.
10% is the sensitivity rate used when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and represents managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the company where the denomination of the loan is in a currency other than the currency of the lender or the borrower.
A positive number below indicates an increase in profit and other equity where the Sterling strengthens 10% against the relevant currency.
For a 10% weakening of the functional currency against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and opposite impact on the profit and other equity, and the balances below would be negative.
There has not been any significant change in the companys sensitivity to foreign currency during the year.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 83 Notes to the Company Only Financial Statements 10.
Financial Instruments continued d Other price risks The company is exposed to equity price risks arising from equity investments.
The shares included above represent investments in listed equity securities that present the company with opportunity for return through dividend income and trading gains.
Equity investments designated as available for sale are held for strategic rather than trading purposes.
The company does not actively trade these investments.
e Equity price sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on the exposure to equity price risks at the reporting date.
If equity prices had been 25% higher lower other equity reserves would increase decrease by 9.6 million 2009: 1.9 million for the company as a result of the changes in fair value of available-for-sale shares.
The companys investment in blinkx is a strategic long term investment following the demerger and is expected to be held for the foreseeable future.
Due to the early stages of this entity it is likely that there will be volatility in the share price and hence the value of this investment may vary significantly from period to period.
f Liquidity and interest risk tables The following tables detail the companys remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities.
The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the company can be required to pay.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
The fair value of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted market prices.
Financial assets in this category include the quoted shares held in blinkx Plc.
The fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments are determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments.
The carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortized cost in the financial statements approximate their fair values.
84 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Company Only Financial Statements 10.
Financial Instruments continued h Fair value measurements recognised in the balance sheet The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e as prices or indirectly i. e derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 000 000 000 000 2010 Available for sale financial assets - Investments in shares........................................................................ 38,465 38,465 2009 Available for sale financial assets - Investments in shares........................................................................ 7,453 7,453 The fair value of the liability component of convertible loan notes is determined assuming redemption on 4 March 2015 and using a 6% interest rate based on market rates for similar term instruments without the convert element.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 85
