Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 3.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty continued ii Going concern The group has considerable financial resources together with a significant number of customers across different geographic areas and industries.
At 31 December 2010 the group has cash balances of $1.1 billion and total debt of $0.8 billion.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the group is well placed to manage business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries and considering the cash flow forecasts of the group the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the twelve month consolidated financial statements.
b Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
i Recoverability of internally generated intangible assets During the year $38.5 million 2009: $24.7 million of internally generated intangible assets were capitalised as required in accordance with IAS 38.
Management have assessed expected revenues to be generated from these assets and deemed that no adjustment is required to the carrying value of the assets.
Management have also reviewed the assets for impairment and deemed that no impairment is required.
ii Impairment of goodwill Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating unit CGU to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows of the CGU and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The carrying amount of goodwill at the balance sheet date was $1,361.9 million 2009: $1,287.0 million.
iii Trade receivables The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade receivables approximates their fair value.
A provision has been made for estimated unrecoverable amounts based on information available to management.
Changes in collectability of trade receivables may impact the level of provision required.
iv Convertible loan notes The liability and equity components of the convertible loan notes are calculated on the date of issue based on market interest rates of similar nonconvertible loan notes.
The market interest rate used in the calculation was based on information provided by independent financial institutions.
