Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General Information Autonomy Corporation plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006.
The registered office is at Autonomy House, Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge CB4 0WZ, UK.
Autonomy Corporation plc is the ultimate holding company of the Autonomy group of companies the group.
The nature of the groups operations and its principal activities are set out beginning on page 8.
The companys functional currency is sterling as that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the company operates.
The groups presentational currency is dollars as that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
Adoption of new and current standards In the current year, the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted.
IAS 27 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: and IAS 28 2008 Investments in Associates Adoption of these standards did not have any significant impact on the financial position or performance of the Group, or result in changes in accounting policy or additional disclosure.
The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Although their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements it may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of NonThe Interpretation provides guidance on when an entity should recognise a non-cash dividend payable, how cash Assets to Owners to measure the dividend payable and how to account for any difference between the carrying amount of the assets distributed and the carrying amount of the dividend payable when the payable is settled.
IFRS 2 amended Group The amendment clarifies the accounting for share-based payment transactions between group entities.
Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions IFRS 3 2008 Business IFRS 3 2008 has introduced additional disclosure requirements for acquisitions.
Combinations At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9................................................. Financial Instruments IAS 24 amended............................... Related Party Disclosures IAS 32 amended...............................
Classification of Rights Issues IFRIC 19.............................................. Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments IFRIC 14 amended............................ Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement Amendments to IAS 12.......................
Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets Amendments to IFRS 7.......................
Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets Improvements to IFRSs May 2010 The adoption of IFRS 9 which the Group plans to adopt for the year beginning on 1 January 2013 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of Financial Instruments.
The directors do not expect that the adoption of the other standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
Significant Accounting Policies a Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of equity investments and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the company are set out below.
The going concern basis has been adopted in preparing the financial statements, as described in more detail in note 3.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 49
