Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 30.
Related Party Transactions continued b Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the group, is considered a related party transaction for purposes of IAS 24.
Full details of individual directors remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report beginning on page 35.
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures also requires the amounts arising in relation to equity compensation charges.
The amounts charged to the income statement in relation to the directors is set out below.
Financial Instruments a Capital risk management The group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 20, the convertible loan notes disclosed in note 22, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in note 24 and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 47.
The group aims to maintain cash balances over $100 million to provide both security to customers making a significant long term investment when they acquire our software and to provide funds for potential acquisitions should the opportunity arise.
b Externally imposed capital requirement The group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
c Significant accounting policies Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 2 to the financial statements.
d Derivative contracts The group does not enter into any financial derivative contracts.
f Financial risk management objectives The group is subject to market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 73 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 31.
Financial Instruments continued The group does not use derivative financial instruments to hedge foreign currency exposures as the operating companies within the group principally generate revenues in the currencies in which they incur the majority of their expenditure.
The group manages credit risk in respect of its trade receivables as set out in note 17.
Liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk are limited as the group has no net debt.
The Board review the respective risks on a quarterly basis to ensure no significant exposures exist.
g Market risk The groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The group does not use derivatives to manage the foreign currency risks due to the natural hedging that exists within the group.
Interest rate risk is not considered significant as the cash balances exceed the bank loan balance.
Market risk exposures are measured using sensitivity analysis.
There has been no change to the groups exposure to market risks or the manner in which it manages and measures the risk.
h Foreign currency risk management The group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies.
Hence, exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise both in terms of transactional risk as well as translational risk.
The group is naturally hedged, as noted above, which addresses the transactional risk.
Translational risk is minimal and is not hedged by the group as the majority of the groups assets and liabilities are denominated in dollars which is also the groups presentational currency.
The following table details the groups sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in the functional currency of the entity concerned against the relevant foreign currencies.
10% is the sensitivity rate used when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and represents managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is in a currency other than the currency of the lender or the borrower.
A positive number below indicates an increase in profit and other equity where the Sterling strengthens 10% against the relevant currency.
For a 10% weakening of the functional currency against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and opposite impact on the profit and other equity, and the balances below would be negative.
There has not been any significant change in the groups sensitivity to foreign currency during the year.
j Interest rate risk management The group is exposed to interest rate risk as it has a floating interest rate bank loan and receives interest on its cash and cash equivalent balances.
The risk is managed by the group by maintaining sufficient cash balances to offset any exposure on the bank loan.
The groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note.
74 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 31.
Financial Instruments continued k Interest rate sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
A 0.5% increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.
If interest rates had been 0.5% higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the groups: profit for the year ended 31 December 2010 would decrease increase by $0.8 million 2009: decrease increase by $0.8 million.
This is mainly attributable to the groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings: and other equity reserves would be unaffected by the change in either year.
l Other price risks The group is exposed to equity price risks arising from equity investments.
The shares included above represent investments in listed equity securities that present the group with opportunity for return through dividend income and trading gains.
Equity investments designated as available for sale are held for strategic rather than trading purposes.
The group does not actively trade these investments.
m Equity price sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to equity price risks at the reporting date.
If equity prices had been 25% higher lower, other equity reserves would increase decrease by $14.9 million 2009: $3.0 million for the group as a result of the changes in fair value of available-for-sale shares.
The increase compared to the prior year relates to a higher current share price combined with additional investment during the year.
The groups investment in blinkx is a strategic long term investment following the demerger and is expected to be held for the foreseeable future.
Due to the early stages of this entity it is likely that there will be volatility in the share price and hence the value of this investment may vary significantly from period to period.
n Credit risk management The group is principally exposed to credit risk over its trade receivables and liquid funds.
Details regarding the management of this risk are provided in note 17.
The groups investments in equity are in technology companies where management do not anticipate to receive dividends.
No significant credit risk has been identified in relation to these investments.
The group does not invest funds in deposits with maturities exceeding three months and thus there is no significant price risk on cash or cash equivalents.
The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counter parties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
The group further mitigates credit risk on liquid funds by spreading its liquid funds amongst a number of banks rather than relying on a single bank.
o Liquidity risk management Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the board of directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the groups short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
The company currently has sufficient cash reserves to repay all of its outstanding obligations when they fall due.
p Liquidity and interest risk tables The following tables detail the groups remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities.
The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the group can be required to pay.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 75 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 31.
Financial Instruments continued Weighted Average Less Than 3 Interest Rate Months 3 Months to 1 Year 1 to 5 Years 5 Years Total % $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 2010 Non interest bearing - Trade payables............... 23,443 23,443 - Operating leases............. 3,146 8,803 29,447 12,632 54,028 Variable interest rate instruments - Bank loan........................ 2.60% 80,480 1,266 66,964 148,710 Fixed interest rate instruments - Convertible loan notes.... 3.25% 12,492 12,492 856,200 881,184 119,561 22,561 952,611 12,632 1,107,365 2009 Non interest bearing - Trade payables............... 14,926 14,926 - Operating leases............. 4,050 12,061 32,915 6,198 55,224 Variable interest rate instruments - Bank loan........................ 2.81% 55,143 2,713 148,659 206,515 74,119 14,774 181,574 6,198 276,665 q Fair value of financial instruments The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: The fair value of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted market prices.
Financial assets in this category include the quoted shares held in blinkx Plc.
The fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments are determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments.
The fair value of unquoted shares is determined by management by considering the underlying profitability and net assets of those investments.
The carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortized cost in the financial statements approximate their fair values.
r Fair value measurements recognised in the balance sheet The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $000 $000 $000 $000 2010 Available for sale financial assets - Investments in shares........................................................................ 59,480 4,377 63,857 2009 Available for sale financial assets - Investments in shares........................................................................ 11,840 385 12,225 s Significant assumptions used in determining fair value of financial assets and liabilities The fair value of the liability component of convertible loan notes is determined assuming redemption on 4 March 2015 and using a 6% interest rate based on market rates for similar term instruments without the convert element.
76 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
