Directors report continued The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Audit information that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section 418 3 the Company and the ABG Group and enable them to ensure that the of the Companies Act 2006 of which the auditors are unaware and financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply each Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the ABG Groups financial aDirector to make himself aware of any relevant audit information statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for andto establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
safeguarding the assets of the Company and the ABG Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Auditors and other irregularities.
ABGs auditors are  LLP PwC.
A resolution to reappoint PwC as auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Refer to page 101 as part of the financial statements for the Independent ABGs website and legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Auditors report.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibilities statement Responsibility statement required by Disclosure and Transparency Rules Under applicable UK law, the Directors are responsible for preparing the The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: Annual Report, the Directors Report, the Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Responsibility for financial statements financial position and profit or loss of ABG and the undertakings included in the consolidation as a whole: and The Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors prepared the Group and parent company financial statements in report, includes a fair review of the development or performance of accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as the business and the position of ABG and the undertakings included adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must in the consolidation as a whole, together with a description of the not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the ABG Group and the Approval of Directors Report Company and of the profit or loss of the ABG Group for that period.
Inpreparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: This report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable andprudent: state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless Katrina White, Company Secretary it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue inbusiness.
