Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION African Barrick Gold plc the Company was incorporated on 12 January 2010 and re-registered as a public limited company on 12 March 2010 under the Companies Act 2006.
It is registered in England and Wales with registered number 7123187.
On 24 March 2010 the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA and to trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange, hereafter referred to as the Initial Public Offering IPO.
The address of its registered office is 6 St Jamess Place, London SW1A 1NP, United Kingdom.
Barrick Gold Corporation BGC currently owns approximately 73.9% of the shares of the Company and is the ultimate controlling party of the Group.
In preparation for the IPO, BGC conducted a reorganisation, which was completed on 22 February 2010, whereby the companies comprising the African Regional Business Unit of BGC were reorganised under the Company the Pre-IPO Reorganisation.
As such, prior to 22 February 2010, the Company did not control all of the entities collectively the Group it acquired pursuant to the Pre-IPO Reorganisation.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 were approved for issue by the Board of Directors of the Company on 10 March 2011.
The Groups primary business is the mining, processing and sale of gold.
The Group has four operating mines located in Tanzania.
The Group also has a portfolio of exploration projects located across Tanzania.
The principal activities of the subsidiaries and joint ventures included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: Equity interest Equity interest at 31 December at 31 December Company Principal activity Country of Incorporation 2010 2009 African Barrick Gold plc Holding Company UK 100% BUK HoldCo Ltd Holding Company UK 100% 1816962 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada 100% BarbCo One Ltd Group Finance Company Barbados 100% BAPL Holding Ltd Holding Company Mauritius 100% CayCo Tz Ltd Holding Company Cayman Islands 100% Barrick Exploration Africa Ltd BEAL Exploration Tanzania 100% 100% Matinje Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania 75% 75% Itobo Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania 75% 75% Mkumi Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania 80% 80% Sekenke Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania 20% 20% Nyanzaga Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania 100% 51% Barrick Tanzanian Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands 100% 100% Barisun Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania 75% 75% Safari Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania 75% 75% Prime Gold Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania 75% 75% Kasubuya Gold Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania 60% 60% KMCL Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands 100% 100% Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania 100% 100% North Mara Gold Mine Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania 100% 100% Pangea Goldfields Inc. Holding Company Canada 100% 100% Pangea Minerals Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania 100% 100% 1051694 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada 100% 100% Barrick Africa Proprietary Ltd Shared Services South Africa 100% 100% East Africa Gold Mines Ltd Holding Company Australia 100% 100% www.
com 106 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Equity interest Equity interest 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION at 31 December at 31 December Company Company African Barrick Gold plc the Company was incorporated on 12 January 2010 and re-registered as a public limited company on 12 March Company Principal activity Country of Incorporation 2010 2009 2010 under the Companies Act 2006.
Tusker Gold Ltd Holding Company Australia 100% Indago Autan Proprietary Ltd Holding Company Australia 100% On 24 March 2010 the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA and to trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange, hereafter referred to as the Initial Public Offering IPO.
The address of its registered IDG Aurum Holdings Ltd Holding Company Tanzania 100% office is 6 St Jamess Place, London SW1A 1NP, United Kingdom.
KDG Kitongo Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania 100% Vulcan Resources Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania 100% Barrick Gold Corporation BGC currently owns approximately 73.9% of the shares of the Company and is the ultimate controlling party Aptian Resources Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania 100% of the Group.
Sub-Sahara Resources Tanzania Ltd Exploration Tanzania 100% In preparation for the IPO, BGC conducted a reorganisation, which was completed on 22 February 2010, whereby the companies comprising Kahama Project Joint Venture Exploration Tanzania 51% the African Regional Business Unit of BGC were reorganised under the Company the Pre-IPO Reorganisation.
As such, prior to Nyakafuru Project Joint Venture Exploration Tanzania 51% 22 February 2010, the Company did not control all of the entities collectively the Group it acquired pursuant to the Pre-IPO Reorganisation.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 were approved for issue by the Board of Directors of the Company The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have on 10 March 2011. been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The Group a Basis of preparation also has a portfolio of exploration projects located across Tanzania.
The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted The principal activities of the subsidiaries and joint ventures included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: by the European Union IFRS, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretation and those parts of the Equity interest Equity interest Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
at 31 December at 31 December Company Principal activity Country of Incorporation 2010 2009 The Company became the holding company for the Group pursuant to the Pre-IPO Reorganisation completed on 22 February 2010, as detailed African Barrick Gold plc Holding Company UK 100% in Note 1.
As this was a reorganisation of businesses under common control, the consolidated financial statements for the years ended BUK HoldCo Ltd Holding Company UK 100% 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2010 have been prepared on a basis that combines the results and assets and liabilities of each of the 1816962 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada 100% companies constituting the Group the pooling of interest method of accounting.
BarbCo One Ltd Group Finance Company Barbados 100% For the periods prior to the Pre-IPO Reorganisation, consolidated financial statements were not prepared for the Group.
The accompanying BAPL Holding Ltd Holding Company Mauritius 100% consolidated financial statements present the results of the Company and its subsidiaries as if the Group had been in existence throughout the CayCo Tz Ltd Holding Company Cayman Islands 100% period presented and as if the Pre-IPO Reorganisation had occurred as at 1 January 2009.
Barrick Exploration Africa Ltd BEAL Exploration Tanzania 100% 100% Matinje Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania 75% 75% The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention basis, as modified by the revaluation of financial Itobo Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania 75% 75% assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Mkumi Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania 80% 80% The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars US$ and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand US$000 except Sekenke Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania 20% 20% when otherwise indicated.
Nyanzaga Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania 100% 51% Barrick Tanzanian Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands 100% 100% Where a change in the presentational format between the Prospectus and the consolidated financial statements has been made during the Barisun Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania 75% 75% period, comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
The following presentational changes were made during the current year: Safari Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania 75% 75% Revenue from the sale of copper and silver is treated as co-product revenue, and included in total revenue in line with a management Prime Gold Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania 75% 75% decision to record it as co-product revenue.
Co-product revenue increased by 202% year-on-year.
This is different from the Prospectus, Kasubuya Gold Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania 60% 60% where it was treated as by-product revenue as a credit to cost of sales.
The change was a result of increased revenue from copper following KMCL Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands 100% 100% the commencement of copper concentrate sales at Buzwagi.
Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania 100% 100% Assets relating to restrictive share unit liabilities of US$7.5 million have been reclassified and offset against the liability.
This is different from North Mara Gold Mine Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania 100% 100% the Prospectus where the asset was shown separately as part of non-current assets.
As this amount has an immaterial impact on the opening Pangea Goldfields Inc. Holding Company Canada 100% 100% position, no opening balance sheet is presented.
Pangea Minerals Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania 100% 100% 1051694 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada 100% 100% Gains and losses on the translation of foreign currency transactions are deemed to be part of other charges.
This is different from the Barrick Africa Proprietary Ltd Shared Services South Africa 100% 100% Prospectus where it was classified as part of corporate administration.
East Africa Gold Mines Ltd Holding Company Australia 100% 100% Gains and losses on the translation of foreign currency transactions are deemed to be part of operating cash flows.
This is different from the Prospectus where it was classified as part of working capital.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current financing.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Group therefore continues to adapt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 107 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued b New and amended standards adopted by the Group The following new standards and amendments to standards are applicable and were adopted by the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2010.
IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations, and consequential amendments to IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and separate financial statements, IAS 28 Investments in associates, and IAS 31 Interest in joint ventures, are effective prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations but with some significant changes compared with IFRS 3.
For example, all payments to purchase a business are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classified as debt subsequently re-measured through the income statement.
There is a choice on an  basis to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
All acquisition-related costs are expensed.
The revised standard was applied to the acquisition of the controlling interest in Tusker Gold Ltd on 27 April 2010.
Acquisition-related costs of US$387,294 have been recognised in the consolidated income statement, which previously would have been included in the consideration for the business combination.
See Note 22 for further details of the business combination that occurred in 2010.
IAS 27 revised requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interest to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control and these transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses.
The standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost.
Any remaining interest in the entity is re-measured to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
IAS 27 revised did not have a material impact on the Group earnings or equity in the current period.
IAS 36 amendment, Impairment of assets, effective 1 January 2010.
The amendment clarifies that the largest cash-generating unit or group of units to which goodwill should be allocated for the purposes of impairment testing is an operating segment, as defined by paragraph 5 of IFRS 8, Operating segments that is, before the aggregation of segments with similar economic characteristics.
IAS 36 amendment has had no impact on the current period as no impairment was identified when testing goodwill impairment at an operating segment level.
IFRS 2 amendments, Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions, effective from 1 January 2010.
In addition to incorporating IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2, and IFRIC 11, IFRS 2, Group and treasury share transactions, the amendments expand on the guidance in IFRIC 11 to address the classification of Group arrangements that were not covered by that interpretation.
The application of the standard did not have a material effect on the Group.
c New and amended standards, and interpretations mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2010 but not currently relevant to the Group although they may affect the accounting for future transactions and events The following standards and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010 or later periods, but are currently not relevant to the Group.
IFRIC 17, Distribution of non-cash assets to owners effective on or after 1 July 2009.
The interpretation was published in November 2008.
This interpretation provides guidance on accounting for arrangements whereby an entity distributes non-cash assets to shareholders either as a distribution of reserves or as dividends.
IFRS 5 has also been amended to require that assets are classified as held for distribution only when they are amended to require that assets are classified as held for distribution only when they are available for distribution in their present condition and the distribution is highly probable.
IFRIC 18, Transfers of assets from customers, effective for transfer of assets received on or after 1 July 2009.
This interpretation clarifies the requirements of IFRSs for agreements in which an entity receives from a customer an item of property, plant and equipment that the entity must then use either to connect the customer to a network or to provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services such as a supply of electricity, gas or water.
In some cases, the entity receives cash from a customer that must be used only to acquire or construct the item of property, plant, and equipment in order to connect the customer to a network or provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services or to do both.
com 108 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives and IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, effective 1 July 2009.
This amendment to IFRIC 9 requires an entity to assess whether an embedded derivative should be separated from a host contract when b New and amended standards adopted by the Group the entity reclassifies a hybrid financial asset out of the fair value through profit or loss category.
This assessment is to be made based on The following new standards and amendments to standards are applicable and were adopted by the Group for the first time for the financial circumstances that existed on the later of the date the entity first became a party to the contract and the date of any contract amendments year beginning 1 January 2010. that significantly change the cash flows of the contract.
If the entity is unable to make this assessment, the hybrid instrument must remain classified as at fair value through profit or loss in its entirety.
IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations, and consequential amendments to IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and separate financial statements, IAS 28 Investments in associates, and IAS 31 Interest in joint ventures, are effective prospectively to business combinations IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation effective 1 July 2009.
This amendment states that, in a hedge of a net for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009. investment in a foreign operation, qualifying hedging instruments may be held by any entity or entities within the Group, including the foreign operation itself, as long as the designation, documentation and effectiveness requirements of IAS 39 that relate to a net investment The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations but with some significant changes compared hedge are satisfied.
In particular, the Group should clearly document its hedging strategy because of the possibility of different designations with IFRS 3.
For example, all payments to purchase a business are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments at different levels of the Group.
classified as debt subsequently re-measured through the income statement.
There is a choice on an  basis to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value IAS 38 amendment, Intangible assets, effective 1 January 2010.
The amendment clarifies guidance in measuring the fair value of an or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
intangible asset acquired in a business combination and permits the grouping of intangible assets as a single asset if each asset has a similar useful economic life.
Acquisition-related costs of US$387,294 have been recognised in the consolidated income statement, which previously would have been included in the consideration IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements.
The amendment clarifies that the potential settlement of a liability by the issue for the business combination.
See Note 22 for further details of the business combination that occurred in 2010. of equity is not relevant to its classification as current or non-current.
By amending the definition of current liability, the amendment permits a liability to be classified as non-current provided that the entity has an unconditional right to defer settlement by transfer of cash or other IAS 27 revised requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interest to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control assets for at least 12 months after the accounting period notwithstanding the fact that the entity could be required by the counterparty to and these transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses.
settle in shares at any time.
IFRS 5 amendment, Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations.
The amendment clarifies that IFRS 5 specifies the disclosures required in respect of non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale or discontinued operations.
It also clarifies IAS 36 amendment, Impairment of assets, effective 1 January 2010.
The amendment clarifies that the largest cash-generating unit that the general requirements of IAS 1 still apply, in particular paragraph 15 to achieve a fair presentation and paragraph 125 sources of or group of units to which goodwill should be allocated for the purposes of impairment testing is an operating segment, as defined by estimation uncertainty of IAS 1. paragraph 5 of IFRS 8, Operating segments that is, before the aggregation of segments with similar economic characteristics.
IAS 36 amendment has had no impact on the current period as no impairment was identified when testing goodwill impairment at an operating d New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January segment level.
2010 and not early adopted The Groups and parent entitys assessment of the impact of these new standards and interpretations is set out below.
In addition to incorporating IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2, and IFRIC 11, IFRS 2, Group and treasury share transactions, the amendments expand on the guidance in IFRS 9, Financial instruments, issued in November 2009.
This standard is the first step in the process to replace IAS 39, Financial IFRIC 11 to address the classification of Group arrangements that were not covered by that interpretation.
The application of the standard instruments: recognition and measurement.
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets.
The standard did not have a material effect on the Group.
is not applicable until 1 January 2013 but is available for early adoption.
However, the standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
c New and amended standards, and interpretations mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning The Group is yet to assess IFRS 9s full impact, however initial indications are that the adoption of IFRS 9 will not have a significant impact 1 January 2010 but not currently relevant to the Group although they may affect the accounting for future on the Groups operating results or financial position.
transactions and events The following standards and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods IAS 24 revised, Related party disclosures, issued in November 2009.
It supersedes IAS 24, Related party disclosures, issued in 2003.
IAS beginning on or after 1 January 2010 or later periods, but are currently not relevant to the Group.
24 revised is mandatory for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
Earlier application, in whole or in part, is permitted.
The revised standard clarifies and simplifies the definition of a related party and removes the requirement for government-related entities to disclose IFRIC 17, Distribution of non-cash assets to owners effective on or after 1 July 2009.
The interpretation was published in November 2008. details of all transactions with the government and other government-related entities.
The Group will apply the revised standard from This interpretation provides guidance on accounting for arrangements whereby an entity distributes non-cash assets to shareholders either as 1 January 2011.
It is not expected to have any impact on the Groups or the parent entitys financial statements.
a distribution of reserves or as dividends.
IFRS 5 has also been amended to require that assets are classified as held for distribution only when IAS 32 amendment, Classification of rights issues, issued in October 2009.
The amendment applies to annual periods beginning on or after they are amended to require that assets are classified as held for distribution only when they are available for distribution in their present 1 February 2010.
The amendment addresses the accounting for rights issues that are denominated in a currency condition and the distribution is highly probable.
other than the functional currency of the issuer.
Provided certain conditions are met, such rights issues are now classified as equity regardless of IFRIC 18, Transfers of assets from customers, effective for transfer of assets received on or after 1 July 2009.
This interpretation clarifies the the currency in which the exercise price is denominated.
Previously, these issues had to be accounted for as derivative liabilities.
The amendment requirements of IFRSs for agreements in which an entity receives from a customer an item of property, plant and equipment that the entity applies retrospectively in accordance with IAS 8, Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors.
The Group has not issued must then use either to connect the customer to a network or to provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services any rights issues.
such as a supply of electricity, gas or water.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 109 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued d New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2010 and not early adopted continued IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments, effective 1 July 2010.
The interpretation clarifies the accounting by an entity when the terms of a financial liability are renegotiated and result in the entity issuing equity instruments to a creditor of the entity to extinguish all or part of the financial liability debt for equity swap.
It requires a gain or loss to be recognised in profit or loss, which is measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability and the fair value of the equity instruments issued.
If the fair value of the equity instruments issued cannot be reliably measured, the equity instruments should be measured to reflect the fair value of the financial liability extinguished.
The Group will apply the interpretation from 1 January 2011.
IFRIC 14 amendments, Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement.
The amendments correct an unintended consequence of IFRIC 14, IAS 19, The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
Without the amendments, entities are not permitted to recognise as an asset some voluntary prepayments for minimum funding contributions.
This was not intended when IFRIC 14 was issued, and the amendments correct this.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning 1 January 2011.
The amendments should be applied retrospectively to the earliest comparative period presented.
e Significant judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty Many of the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements require management to make judgements and or estimates.
These judgements and estimates are continuously evaluated and are based on managements experience and best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements.
The Life of Mine plans are central to a number of key estimates and are approved by the Board of Directors annually.
Information about such judgements and estimation is included in the accounting policies and or notes to the consolidated financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements include: Estimates of the quantities of proven and probable gold reserves Note 2i : The capitalisation of production stripping costs Note 2j : The capitalisation of exploration and evaluation expenditures Notes 2m and 7: Review of goodwill, tangible and intangible assets carrying value, the determination of whether these assets are impaired and the measurement of impairment charges or reversals Notes 2p, 2q, 2r, 2s, 18 and 19: The estimated fair values of cash generating units for impairment tests, including estimates of future costs to produce proven and probable reserves, future commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and discount rates Notes 2s and 19: The estimated useful lives of tangible and long-lived assets and the measurement of depreciation expense Notes 2p and 18: Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases Notes 2p and 18: Recognition of a provision for environmental rehabilitation and the estimation of the rehabilitation costs and timing of expenditure Notes 2v and 26: Whether to recognise a liability for loss contingencies and the amount of any such provision Notes 2v and 31: Whether to recognise a provision for accounts receivable Notes 2x, 16 and 21: Recognition of deferred income tax assets, amounts recorded for uncertain tax positions, the measurement of income tax expense and indirect taxes Notes 2z, 11 and 20: Determination of fair value of derivative instruments Note 28: and Determination of fair value of stock options Note 24. www.
com 110 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued f Basis of consolidation d New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial position as at 31 December 2010 and 2009, and operating results and cash 2010 and not early adopted continued flows for the years then ended.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group incorporate the financial statements of the Company and companies controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments, effective 1 July 2010.
The interpretation clarifies the accounting by an entity when the terms of a financial liability are renegotiated and result in the entity issuing equity instruments to a creditor of the entity Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies in order to extinguish all or part of the financial liability debt for equity swap.
It requires a gain or loss to be recognised in profit or loss, which is to obtain benefits from their activities.
Control is presumed to exist where the Company has more than one half of the voting rights unless it can measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability and the fair value of the equity instruments issued.
If the fair be demonstrated that ownership does not constitute control.
Control does not exist where other parties hold veto rights over significant operating value of the equity instruments issued cannot be reliably measured, the equity instruments should be measured to reflect the fair value of the and financial decisions.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible as well as other contractual financial liability extinguished.
It is not expected to have any impact on the arrangements that enable the Company to exercise control are taken into account.
The consolidated financial statements include all of the Groups or the parent entitys financial statements.
assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries after eliminating intercompany transactions as noted above.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The amendments correct an unintended consequence of Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control passed to the Group, and have been excluded IFRIC 14, IAS 19, The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
Without the amendments, from the date on which control transferred out of the Group.
For partly-owned subsidiaries, the net assets and net earnings attributable to nonentities are not permitted to recognise as an asset some voluntary prepayments for minimum funding contributions.
This was not intended controlling interests are presented as Invested capital attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated balance sheet and Net when IFRIC 14 was issued, and the amendments correct this.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning 1 January 2011. profit attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated income statement, respectively.
g Business combinations e Significant judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty On acquiring a business, the acquisition method of accounting is used, whereby the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable net assets on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
Provisional fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within 12 months of Many of the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements require management to make judgements and or estimates.
judgements and estimates are continuously evaluated and are based on managements experience and best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements.
The Life of Mine plans are When purchase consideration is contingent on future events, the initial cost of the acquisition recorded includes an estimate of the fair value central to a number of key estimates and are approved by the Board of Directors annually.
Information about such judgements and estimation of the contingent amounts expected to be payable in the future.
The cost of the acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are made, with is included in the accounting policies and or notes to the consolidated financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
corresponding adjustments made to goodwill.
Areas of judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the When the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values of the identifiable net assets, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill, which is consolidated financial statements include: reviewed for impairment annually or when there is an indication of impairment.
If the fair value attributable to the Groups share of the identifiable net assets exceeds the cost of acquisition, the difference is recognised in the income statement.
Estimates of the quantities of proven and probable gold reserves Note 2i : h Foreign currency translation The capitalisation of production stripping costs Note 2j : The Groups transactions are denominated in a number of different currencies primarily US dollars, Tanzanian Shillings Shillings, South The capitalisation of exploration and evaluation expenditures Notes 2m and 7: African Rands Rands, UK pound sterling Pounds and Australian dollars.
The Group has liabilities that are primarily denominated in US dollars.
The US dollar is the Companys and its main subsidiaries functional currency, as well as the Groups presentation currency.
Review of goodwill, tangible and intangible assets carrying value, the determination of whether these assets are impaired and the Transactions in currencies other than the US dollar are translated at the exchange rates as at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and measurement of impairment charges or reversals Notes 2p, 2q, 2r, 2s, 18 and 19: liabilities denominated in currencies other than the US dollar are translated to US dollars at year-end exchange rates.
All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets measured at historical cost in a currency other than US dollars are translated using The estimated fair values of cash generating units for impairment tests, including estimates of future costs to produce proven and probable the exchange rates at the date of the initial transactions.
Where non-monetary assets are measured at fair value in a currency other than US reserves, future commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and discount rates Notes 2s and 19: dollars they are translated into US dollars using the exchange rates on the date when the fair value was determined.
The estimated useful lives of tangible and long-lived assets and the measurement of depreciation expense Notes 2p and 18: The following exchange rates to the US dollar have been applied: Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases Notes 2p and 18: Average Average As at Year ended As at Year ended Recognition of a provision for environmental rehabilitation and the estimation of the rehabilitation costs and timing of expenditure 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2010 2009 2009 Notes 2v and 26: South African rand US$ : ZAR 6.66 7.31 7.38 8.33 Whether to recognise a liability for loss contingencies and the amount of any such provision Notes 2v and 31: Tanzanian shilling US$ : TZS 1,484 1,447 1,335 1,326 Australian dollars US$ : AUD 0.98 0.92 0.90 0.79 Whether to recognise a provision for accounts receivable Notes 2x, 16 and 21: UK pound US$ : GBP 0.65 0.65 0.62 0.64 Recognition of deferred income tax assets, amounts recorded for uncertain tax positions, the measurement of income tax expense and indirect taxes Notes 2z, 11 and 20: i Determination of ore reserves Determination of fair value of derivative instruments Note 28: and The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance with the Canadian Securities Administrators National Instrument 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects requirements.
Reports Determination of fair value of stock options Note 24. to support these estimates are prepared each year.
Proven and probable 2P reserves, and for certain mines other mineral resources, determined in this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges, the assessment of life of mine stripping ratios and for forecasting the timing of the payments related to the environmental rehabilitation provision.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 111 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued i Determination of ore reserves continued In assessing the life of a mine for accounting purposes, mineral resources are only taken into account where there is a high degree of confidence of economic extraction.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available.
Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being revised.
j Stripping costs In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste materials to access ore from which minerals can be extracted economically.
The process of mining overburden and waste materials is referred to as stripping.
Stripping costs incurred during the development stage of a mine or pit in order to provide initial access to the ore body referred to as pre-production stripping are capitalised as mine development costs and amortised over the ore reserves of the mine or pit using the units of production method.
Stripping costs incurred during the production stage referred to as production stripping are accounted for according to the benefit received by the Group.
Production stripping costs that benefit the current period are considered costs of current production and represent a component of inventory cost, which is charged to cost of sales when the related inventory is sold.
Production stripping costs that generate a future economic benefit to the Group are capitalised as mine development costs and amortised over the ore reserves to be mined in the future on a units of production basis similar to the accounting treatment of pre-production stripping costs and included as a component of inventory cost as the applicable ore reserves are extracted.
Production stripping costs incurred related to the further development of the mine or pit, which generally requires a phase of unusually high waste removal activity that is similar to pre-production stripping, are considered to generate a future economic benefit to the Group.
Such production stripping costs generate a future economic benefit when the related stripping activity: i provides access to ore to be mined in the future: ii increases the fair value of the mine or pit, that is the mine or pit is more valuable after the waste material has been removed as access to future mineral reserves becomes less costly: iii increases the productive capacity or extends the productive life of the mine or pit.
Such production phase stripping costs are capitalised as mine development costs.
For periods where production stripping activity generates a future economic benefit, the planned life of mine or pit waste-to-ore tonnes ratio the strip ratio is considered, along with other functions such as the length and intensity of the stripping campaign, to determine the amount of production stripping costs incurred related to current production versus the amount that relates to the future economic benefit.
Where a mine operates several open pits that are regarded as separate operations for the purpose of mine planning, stripping costs are accounted for separately by reference to the ore reserves from each separate pit i. e. the initial stripping of the second and subsequent pits is considered to be pre-production stripping.
If, however, the pits are highly integrated for the purpose of mine planning, the second and subsequent pits are regarded as extensions of the first pit in accounting for stripping costs.
In such cases, the initial stripping of the second and subsequent pits is considered to be production stripping relating to the combined operation.
k Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised when persuasive evidence exists that all of the following criteria are met: the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer: neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold, has been retained: the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will flow to the Group: and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
Gold dor sales Gold dor is unrefined gold bullion bars usually consisting of 90% gold that is refined to pure gold bullion prior to sale to our customers.
Historically all dor sales were made to Barrick International Banking Corporation BIBC, a related party.
From May 2010 onwards gold dor was sold directly to third parties.
Revenue from gold dor sales is recognised either at the time of sale to a third party or, in relation to quarter end settlements, at the time of shipment should the Group have received confirmation of sale to the third party.
The sales price is based on the gold spot price at the time of sale.
com 112 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Concentrate sales i Determination of ore reserves continued Concentrate is a processing product containing the valuable ore mineral gold, copper and silver from which most of the waste mineral has been eliminated, that undergoes a smelting process to convert it into gold bullion, copper and silver concentrate.
Under the terms of concentrate In assessing the life of a mine for accounting purposes, mineral resources are only taken into account where there is a high degree of confidence sales contracts with independent smelting companies, gold, copper and silver in concentrate is sold at trailing monthly average spot prices of economic extraction.
based on contract quotational periods.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change Revenue is recorded, net of selling costs, at the time of shipment, which is also when risks and rewards pass to the smelting companies, using significantly when new information becomes available.
Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or forward market prices on the expected date that final sales prices will be fixed.
Variations between the price recorded at the shipment date and recovery rates may change the economic status of reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being revised.
the actual final price set under the smelting contracts are caused by changes in market prices, and result in an embedded derivative in accounts j Stripping costs receivable.
The embedded derivative is recorded at fair value each period until final settlement occurs, with changes in fair value classified as provisional price adjustments and included as a component of revenue.
Co-product revenues from the sale of by-products, such as copper and In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste materials to access ore from which minerals can be extracted silver, contained in the concentrate are recognised in revenue.
Stripping costs incurred during the development stage of a mine or pit in order to provide initial access to the ore body referred to as pre-production stripping are capitalised as mine Co-products development costs and amortised over the ore reserves of the mine or pit using the units of production method.
Revenue from the sale of co-products, such as copper and silver, contained in concentrates are recognised in revenue.
As detailed in Note 2a Stripping costs incurred during the production stage referred to as production stripping are accounted for according to the benefit received by in the Prospectus co-product revenue was treated as a by-product and credited to cost of sales.
As a result of co-product revenue becoming the Group.
Production stripping costs that benefit the current period are considered costs of current production and represent a component of increasingly significant to the Group, reflected in the 202% year-on-year increase, primarily as a result of Buzwagi commencing its production inventory cost, which is charged to cost of sales when the related inventory is sold.
Production stripping costs that generate a future economic of copper and increases in copper prices, copper sales have been reclassified as co-product revenue.
benefit to the Group are capitalised as mine development costs and amortised over the ore reserves to be mined in the future on a units of l Cost of sales production basis similar to the accounting treatment of pre-production stripping costs and included as a component of inventory cost as the applicable ore reserves are extracted.
Production stripping costs incurred related to the further development of the mine or pit, which Cost of sales consists of direct mining costs which include personnel costs, general and administrative costs, energy costs principally diesel generally requires a phase of unusually high waste removal activity that is similar to pre-production stripping, are considered to generate a fuel and electricity, maintenance and repair costs, operating supplies, external services, third-party smelting, refining and transport fees, future economic benefit to the Group.
Such production stripping costs generate a future economic benefit when the related stripping activity: and depreciation related to sales as well as production taxes and royalty expenses for the period.
Cost of sales is based on average costing for i provides access to ore to be mined in the future: ii increases the fair value of the mine or pit, that is the mine or pit is more valuable after the contained or recoverable ounces sold as well as production taxes and royalty expense for the period.
This is different to the Prospectus in which waste material has been removed as access to future mineral reserves becomes less costly: iii increases the productive capacity or extends the the sale of copper by-products was credited against cost of sales, as noted in Notes 2a and 2k.
All costs are net of any impairment to reduce productive life of the mine or pit.
inventory to its net realisable value.
For periods where production stripping activity generates a future economic benefit, the planned life of mine or pit waste-to-ore tonnes ratio m Exploration and evaluation the strip ratio is considered, along with other functions such as the length and intensity of the stripping campaign, to determine the amount Exploration expenditures of production stripping costs incurred related to current production versus the amount that relates to the future economic benefit.
Exploration expenditures relate to the initial search for mineral deposits with economic potential as well as expenditures incurred for the Where a mine operates several open pits that are regarded as separate operations for the purpose of mine planning, stripping costs are purposes of obtaining more information about existing mineral deposits.
Exploration expenditures typically comprise costs that are directly accounted for separately by reference to the ore reserves from each separate pit i. e. the initial stripping of the second and subsequent pits attributable to: is considered to be pre-production stripping.
In such cases, the initial stripping of the second researching and analysing existing exploration data: and subsequent pits is considered to be production stripping relating to the combined operation.
conducting geological studies: k Revenue recognition exploratory drilling and sampling for the purposes of obtaining core samples and the related metallurgical assay of these cores: and Revenue is recognised when persuasive evidence exists that all of the following criteria are met: drilling to determine the volume and grade of deposits in an area known to contain mineral resources or for the purposes of converting the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer: mineral resources into proven and probable reserves.
neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold, Exploration expenditures incurred at greenfield sites sites where the Group does not have any mineral deposits that are already being mined has been retained: or developed are expensed as incurred.
Exploration expenditures incurred at brownfield sites sites that are adjacent to a mineral deposit that is classified within proven and probable reserves and are already being mined or developed are capitalised if the following criteria are met: the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: The drilling is being done in an inferred or measured and indicated resource: and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will flow to the Group: and There is an existing proven and probable reserve that is contiguous or adjacent to where the drilling is being done: and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
It is probable that the resource will be converted to a proven and probable reserve.
Gold dor sales The assessment of probability is based on the following factors: results from previous drill programmes: results from a geological study: results Gold dor is unrefined gold bullion bars usually consisting of 90% gold that is refined to pure gold bullion prior to sale to our customers.
from a mine scoping study confirming economic viability of the resource: and preliminary estimates of the volume and grade of the deposit, Historically all dor sales were made to Barrick International Banking Corporation BIBC, a related party.
From May 2010 onwards gold and the net cash flows expected to be generated from its development.
Costs incurred at brownfield sites that meet the above criteria are dor was sold directly to third parties.
Revenue from gold dor sales is recognised either at the time of sale to a third party or, in relation to capitalised as a component of property, plant and equipment mine development costs pursuant to IAS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment.
quarter end settlements, at the time of shipment should the Group have received confirmation of sale to the third party.
The sales price is All other drilling and related exploration costs incurred at these sites are expensed as mine site exploration.
Exploration expenditures incurred based on the gold spot price at the time of sale.
for the purposes of determining additional information on a mineral deposit that is classified within proven and probable reserves or for the purposes of extending an existing mineral deposit that is classified within proven and probable reserves and is already being mined or developed are also capitalised as mine development costs.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 113 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued m Exploration and evaluation continued Evaluation expenditures Evaluation expenditures arise from a detailed assessment of deposits or other projects that have been identified as having economic potential in order to determine their technical feasibility and commercial viability.
They typically include costs directly attributable to: detailed engineering studies: examination and testing of extraction methods and metallurgical treatment processes: surveying transportation and infrastructure requirements: permitting activities: and detailed economic evaluations to determine whether development of the reserves is commercially justified, including the preparation of scoping, pre-feasibility and final feasibility studies.
Evaluation expenditures incurred at greenfield sites are expensed as incurred.
Evaluation expenditures incurred at brownfield sites are expensed as incurred, unless it can be demonstrated that the related evaluation expenditures will generate a future economic benefit.
Evaluation expenditures incurred at operating mines development projects are capitalised as a component of property, plant and equipment, Mining properties and development costs, respectively.
Acquired exploration and evaluation properties Exploration and evaluation stage properties acquired either as an acquisition of individual assets or as part of a business combination are capitalised as an intangible asset, Acquired exploration and evaluation properties.
Exploration and evaluation stage properties represent interests in properties that do not have mineralised material classified within proven and probable reserves.
The value of such properties is primarily driven by the nature and amount of mineralised material contained in such properties, including value attributable to the rights to explore or develop: i a property containing mineralised material classified as a measured, indicated or inferred resource: or ii a prospective greenfield property with significant exploration potential.
Exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred on such properties subsequent to their acquisition are expensed as incurred until the technical and commercial viability of developing the property has been demonstrated under the same criteria described above for exploration and evaluation expenditures.
n Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing profit for the period attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding for the period.
Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential dilution that could occur if additional Ordinary Shares are assumed to be issued under securities that entitle their holders to obtain Ordinary Shares in the future.
For stock options, the number of additional shares for inclusion in diluted earnings per share calculations is determined using the treasury stock method.
Under this method, stock options, whose exercise price is less than the average market price of our Ordinary Shares, are assumed to be exercised and the proceeds are used to repurchase Ordinary Shares at the average market price for the period.
The incremental number of Ordinary Shares issued under stock options and repurchased from proceeds is included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
o Inventory Material extracted from the Groups mines is classified as either ore or waste.
Ore represents material that, at the time of extraction, is expected to be processed into a saleable form and sold at a profit.
Waste represents material that is required to be removed to access ore bodies.
Ore is recorded as an asset that is classified within inventory as material is extracted from the open pit or underground mine.
Ore is accumulated in stockpiles that are subsequently processed into gold in a saleable form under a mine plan that takes into consideration optimal scheduling of production of our reserves, present plant capacity, and the market price of gold and copper.
Work in process inventory represents gold, copper and silver in the processing circuit that has not completed the production process, and is not yet in a saleable form.
Finished goods inventory represents gold in saleable form that has not yet been shipped.
Mine operating supplies represent commodities and other raw materials consumed in the production process, as well as spare parts and other maintenance supplies that are not classified as capital items.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, with cost being determined on a weighted average cost basis.
Average costs are calculated by reference to the cost of inventory at the beginning of the period together with the cost of inventory produced in a period.
com 114 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Gold, copper and silver ore contained in stockpiles is measured by estimating the number of tonnes added and removed from the stockpile, and the associated estimate of gold contained therein based on assay data and applying estimated metallurgical recovery rates based on the expected m Exploration and evaluation continued processing method.
Stockpile ore tonnages are verified by periodic surveys.
Costs are allocated to ore stockpiles based on quantities of material Evaluation expenditures stockpiled using current mining costs incurred up to the point of stockpiling the ore and include: direct labour costs: materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction of ore, including an allocation of stripping costs attributable to current period production: Evaluation expenditures arise from a detailed assessment of deposits or other projects that have been identified as having economic potential an allocation of capitalised stripping costs: an allocation of mine site overhead costs: and depreciation of mining properties and property, plant and in order to determine their technical feasibility and commercial viability.
They typically include costs directly attributable to: equipment used in the extraction of ore. As ore is processed, costs are removed based on recoverable quantities of gold and the stockpiles average detailed engineering studies: cost per unit.
Ore that is not expected to be processed in the 12 months following the balance sheet date is classified as non-current.
examination and testing of extraction methods and metallurgical treatment processes: Costs capitalised in process and finished goods inventory include: the cost of stockpiles processed: the cost of commodities and raw materials consumed in the production process: direct labour: repair and maintenance costs: energy costs: depreciation of property, plant and equipment surveying transportation and infrastructure requirements: used in the production process: and an allocation of mine site overhead costs.
Costs are removed from finished goods inventory and recorded in cost of sales based on the average cost per ounce of gold, copper and silver sold in the period.
permitting activities: and Cost of mine operating supplies is the purchase cost, including allocated freight costs where applicable.
detailed economic evaluations to determine whether development of the reserves is commercially justified, including the preparation of scoping, pre-feasibility and final feasibility studies.
Provisions are recorded to reduce ore stockpiles, in process and finished goods inventory to net realisable value where the net realisable value of the inventory is lower than its cost at each balance sheet date.
Net realisable value is determined with reference to relevant market prices less Evaluation expenditures incurred at greenfield sites are expensed as incurred.
Evaluation expenditures incurred at brownfield sites are expensed applicable variable selling expenses.
Provisions recorded also reflect an estimate of the remaining costs of completion to bring the inventory into as incurred, unless it can be demonstrated that the related evaluation expenditures will generate a future economic benefit.
Provisions are recorded to reduce mine operating supplies to net realisable value, which is generally calculated by reference to its salvage or scrap value, when it is determined that the supplies are slow moving and or obsolete.
Provisions are reversed to reflect subsequent Evaluation expenditures incurred at operating mines development projects are capitalised as a component of property, plant and equipment, recoveries in net realisable value where the inventory is still on hand at the balance sheet date.
Mining properties and development costs, respectively.
p Property, plant and equipment Acquired exploration and evaluation properties Mineral properties and mine development costs Exploration and evaluation stage properties acquired either as an acquisition of individual assets or as part of a business combination are capitalised as an intangible asset, Acquired exploration and evaluation properties.
Exploration and evaluation stage properties represent interests in Mineral properties and mine development costs are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and applicable accumulated impairment losses.
properties that do not have mineralised material classified within proven and probable reserves.
The value of such properties is primarily driven The acquisition cost of a mineral property is the estimated fair value of proven and probable reserves and measured, indicated and inferred resources by the nature and amount of mineralised material contained in such properties, including value attributable to the rights to explore or develop: acquired as a result of a business combination or asset acquisition.
Capitalised mine development costs include: pre-production stripping costs: i a property containing mineralised material classified as a measured, indicated or inferred resource: or ii a prospective greenfield property production stripping costs that result in a future economic benefit refer to Note 2j for capitalisation criteria for stripping costs : costs incurred with significant exploration potential.
Exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred on such properties subsequent to their acquisition are to access reserves at underground mining operations: and exploration and evaluation expenditures that result in a probable future economic expensed as incurred until the technical and commercial viability of developing the property has been demonstrated under the same criteria benefit refer to Note 2m for capitalisation criteria for exploration and evaluation expenditures.
described above for exploration and evaluation expenditures.
Development costs incurred at underground mines to build new shafts, drifts and ramps that provide physical access to the underground ore n Earnings per share are capitalised as incurred.
These costs can be incurred throughout the life of the underground mine.
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing profit for the period attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average Plant and equipment number of Ordinary Shares outstanding for the period.
For stock options, Plant and equipment is recorded at cost, less accumulated depreciation and applicable impairment losses.
Cost includes all expenditures incurred the number of additional shares for inclusion in diluted earnings per share calculations is determined using the treasury stock method.
Under to prepare an asset for its intended use including: the purchase price: brokers commissions: and installation costs including architectural, design this method, stock options, whose exercise price is less than the average market price of our Ordinary Shares, are assumed to be exercised and and engineering fees, legal fees, survey costs, site preparation costs, freight charges, transportation insurance costs, and duties.
the proceeds are used to repurchase Ordinary Shares at the average market price for the period.
The incremental number of Ordinary Shares Costs that extend the productive capacity or useful economic life of an asset are capitalised.
Costs incurred that do not extend the productive issued under stock options and repurchased from proceeds is included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
capacity or useful economic life of an asset are considered repairs and maintenance and expensed as incurred.
o Inventory The Group enters into leasing arrangements and arrangements that are in substance leasing arrangements.
The determination of whether an Material extracted from the Groups mines is classified as either ore or waste.
Ore represents material that, at the time of extraction, is expected arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date, including whether the fulfilment of the to be processed into a saleable form and sold at a profit.
Ore is arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
A reassessment recorded as an asset that is classified within inventory as material is extracted from the open pit or underground mine.
Ore is accumulated in after inception is only made in specific circumstances.
Leasing arrangements that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership stockpiles that are subsequently processed into gold in a saleable form under a mine plan that takes into consideration optimal scheduling of of the asset to the Group are classified as finance leases.
production of our reserves, present plant capacity, and the market price of gold and copper.
Finished goods inventory Finance leases are recorded as an asset with a corresponding liability at an amount equal to the lower of the fair value of the leased property and represents gold in saleable form that has not yet been shipped.
Mine operating supplies represent commodities and other raw materials the present value at the beginning of the lease term of the minimum lease payments over the term of the lease.
Each lease payment is allocated consumed in the production process, as well as spare parts and other maintenance supplies that are not classified as capital items.
Inventories between the liability and finance costs using the effective interest method, whereby a constant rate of interest expense is recognised on the are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, with cost being determined on a weighted average cost basis.
Average costs are calculated balance of the liability outstanding.
The interest element of the lease is charged to the income statement as a finance expense.
The property, by reference to the cost of inventory at the beginning of the period together with the cost of inventory produced in a period.
plant and equipment assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straightline basis over the lease term.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 115 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued p Property, plant and equipment continued Assets under construction Assets in the course of construction at both our development projects and operating mines are capitalised in the assets under construction account.
The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working condition for its intended use, at which point it is transferred to property, plant and equipment and depreciation commences.
Development projects are recorded at cost, less applicable accumulated impairment losses.
Development projects represent interests in properties that contain proven and probable reserves and where development activities are ongoing.
The cost of development projects is composed of: the estimated fair value of development stage assets acquired as a result of a business combination or an asset acquisition: and costs associated with the construction of tangible assets, such as processing plants, permanent housing facilities and other tangible infrastructure associated with the project.
Assets under construction also contains deposits on long lead items.
Assets under construction are not depreciated.
Depreciation Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the mine if shorter on a straight line basis.
For mineral properties and mine development costs, the economic benefits of the assets are consumed in a pattern which is linked to the production level.
Such assets are depreciated on a unit of production basis.
Depreciation commences when assets are available for their intended use.
In applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally calculated using the quantity of gold, copper and silver extracted from the mine or pit in the period as a percentage of the total quantity of material expected to be extracted in current and future periods based on estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves and, for some mines, mineral resources.
Such non-reserve material may be included in the depreciation calculations where there is a high degree of confidence in its economic extraction and the production of the non-reserve material is reflected in the life of mine plan.
Development costs that relate to a discrete section of an ore body and which only provide benefit over the life of those reserves are depreciated over the recoverable proven and probable reserves of that discrete section.
Discrete sections include capitalised underground development costs or production stripping costs incurred for the purposes of providing access to specific ore blocks or areas of the mine and which only provide an economic benefit over the period of mining that ore block or area.
Development costs incurred which benefit the entire ore body are depreciated over the recoverable proven and probable reserves of the entire ore body.
The expected depreciation rates of the major categories of assets are as follows: Mineral properties and development costs UOP Plant and equipment 4% 25% Underground mobile equipment 14.3% 20% Light vehicles and other mobile equipment 33.3% 50% Furniture, computer and office equipment 33.3% 50% UOP indicates assets which are depreciated on the basis of units of production UOP, in this case ounces of gold, copper and silver produced in a period divided by the total recoverable reserves and resources of gold, copper and silver expected to be mined based on the current life of mine plans.
Each assets estimated residual value and useful life are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, on an annual basis.
The estimate of residual value and useful life is based on the physical condition and life limitations of buildings, plant and equipment and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine for the mining property and development cost asset.
Changes to the estimated residual values or useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
q Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially determined based on provisional fair values.
Fair values are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
For non-wholly-owned subsidiaries, non-controlling interests are initially recorded based on the minorities proportion of the fair values for the assets and liabilities recognised at acquisition.
Goodwill that is acquired through business combinations is allocated to cash generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination.
Each of the Groups CGUs that has an allocation of goodwill is also an operating segment as defined by IFRS 8.
Consequently, goodwill is tested for impairment at the individual CGU level.
Goodwill is not amortised: rather it is tested annually for impairment in accordance with accounting policy Note 2s.
Goodwill impairments are not reversible.
com 116 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued r Intangible assets p Property, plant and equipment continued Intangible assets acquired by way of an asset acquisition or business combination are recognised if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or legal rights and the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
On acquisition of a mineral property in the exploration stage, we Assets under construction prepare an estimate of the fair value attributable to the exploration potential, including mineral resources, if any, of that property.
The fair value of Assets in the course of construction at both our development projects and operating mines are capitalised in the assets under construction the exploration potential is recorded as an intangible asset acquired exploration potential as at the date of acquisition.
When an exploration stage account.
The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working property moves into development, any acquired exploration intangible asset balance attributable to that property is transferred to non-depreciable condition for its intended use, at which point it is transferred to property, plant and equipment and depreciation commences.
Development mining interests within property, plant and equipment.
projects are recorded at cost, less applicable accumulated impairment losses.
Development projects represent interests in properties that contain Impairment testing and the reversal of impairments are conducted in accordance with accounting policy Note 2s.
proven and probable reserves and where development activities are ongoing.
The cost of development projects is composed of: the estimated fair value of development stage assets acquired as a result of a business combination or an asset acquisition: and costs associated with the s Impairment of non-current assets construction of tangible assets, such as processing plants, permanent housing facilities and other tangible infrastructure associated with the Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or at any time during the year if an indicator of impairment is considered to exist.
We review and test the carrying amounts of intangible assets when events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may Depreciation not be recoverable.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the mine if shorter on a straight line basis.
For mineral properties and mine development costs, the economic benefits of the assets are consumed in a pattern which is linked to the production Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if there is any indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
In An impairment loss recognised in prior years for non-financial assets other than goodwill shall be reversed if, and only if, there has been applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally calculated using the quantity of gold, copper and silver extracted from the a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
This reversal is mine or pit in the period as a percentage of the total quantity of material expected to be extracted in current and future periods based on recognised in the consolidated statement of income and is limited to the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of any estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves and, for some mines, mineral resources.
Such non-reserve material may be included in depreciation, had no impairment been recognised in prior years.
After such a reversal, any depreciation charge is adjusted prospectively.
the depreciation calculations where there is a high degree of confidence in its economic extraction and the production of the non-reserve material is reflected in the life of mine plan.
The recoverable amount of an asset is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use VIU being the net present value NPV of future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, and fair value less costs to sell FVLCS.
Impairment assessments are conducted at the level Development costs that relate to a discrete section of an ore body and which only provide benefit over the life of those reserves are depreciated of CGUs, which is the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets.
Each operating over the recoverable proven and probable reserves of that discrete section.
Discrete sections include capitalised underground development costs mine and development project represents a CGU for impairment testing purposes.
An impairment loss is recognised for any excess of carrying or production stripping costs incurred for the purposes of providing access to specific ore blocks or areas of the mine and which only provide amount of a CGU over its recoverable amount.
an economic benefit over the period of mining that ore block or area.
The FVLCS of a CGU is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms length basis.
There is no active market for the Groups CGUs.
Consequently, FVLCS is derived using discounted cash flow techniques NPV of expected future cash The expected depreciation rates of the major categories of assets are as follows: flows of a CGU, which incorporate market participant assumptions.
Cost to sell is based on managements best estimates of future selling costs Mineral properties and development costs UOP at the time of calculating FVLCS.
Costs attributable to the sale of a CGU are not considered significant.
Plant and equipment 4% 25% The expected future cash flows utilised in the NPV model are derived from estimates of projected future revenues, future cash costs of Underground mobile equipment 14.3% 20% production and capital expenditures contained in the life of mine LOM plan for each CGU, which are updated in the fourth quarter of each Light vehicles and other mobile equipment 33.3% 50% fiscal year.
The Groups LOM plans reflect proven and probable reserves and convertible resources and are based on detailed research, analysis Furniture, computer and office equipment 33.3% 50% and modelling to optimise the internal rate of return for each CGU.
As such, these plans consider the optimal level of investment, overall UOP indicates assets which are depreciated on the basis of units of production UOP, in this case ounces of gold, copper and silver produced in a period divided by the total production levels and sequence of extraction taking into account all relevant characteristics of the ore body, including waste-to-ore tonnes, ore recoverable reserves and resources of gold, copper and silver expected to be mined based on the current life of mine plans.
grades, haul distances, chemical and metallurgical properties impacting process recoveries and capacities of available extraction, haulage and Each assets estimated residual value and useful life are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, on an annual basis.
The estimate of residual value processing equipment.
and useful life is based on the physical condition and life limitations of buildings, plant and equipment and the present assessment of economically Projected future revenues reflect the forecasted future production levels at each CGU as detailed in the LOM plans.
Included in these forecasts recoverable reserves of the mine for the mining property and development cost asset.
Changes to the estimated residual values or useful lives are is the production of mineral resources that do not currently qualify for inclusion in proven and probable ore reserves where there is a high accounted for prospectively.
degree of confidence in their economic extraction.
This is consistent with the approach that a market participant would utilise in preparing a q Goodwill forecast of expected production levels.
Projected future revenues also reflect the Groups estimate of long-term gold prices, which is determined based on current prices, an analysis of the expected total production costs of producers and forward pricing curves and forecasts of expected Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired long-term prices prepared by research analysts.
These estimates often differ from current price levels, but this methodology is consistent with at the date of acquisition.
Fair values are finalised within 12 months of the how a market participant would assess long-term gold prices.
The estimates of future cash costs of production and capital expenditures are derived from the LOM plans for each CGU.
Costs incurred in currencies other than the US dollar are translated to US dollars using expected long-term exchange rates based on the relevant forward pricing Goodwill that is acquired through business combinations is allocated to cash generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected curve for that currency.
Oil prices are a significant component, both directly and indirectly, of the expected cash costs of production.
Estimates to benefit from the synergies of the business combination.
Each of the Groups CGUs that has an allocation of goodwill is also an operating for long-term oil prices used in the LOM plans are based on the current spot price, the forward pricing curve and long-term oil price forecasts segment as defined by IFRS 8.
Goodwill impairments The discount rate applied to present value is based upon the real weighted average cost of capital applicable to the CGU.
The discount rate are not reversible.
reflects equity risk premiums over the risk-free rate, the impact of the remaining economic life of the CGU and the risks associated with the relevant cash flows based on the country in which the CGU is located.
These risk adjustments are based on observed equity risk premiums, historical country risk premiums and average credit default swap spreads for the period.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 117 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued s Impairment of non-current assets continued In determining FVLCS, a market multiple is applied to the NPV of each CGU.
Gold companies typically trade at a market capitalisation that is based on a multiple of their underlying NPV.
Consequently, a market participant would generally apply an NPV multiple when estimating the fair value of a gold property.
The NPV multiples utilised in the determination of the FVLCS of a CGU consider the NPV multiples observed on comparable companies.
These observed multiples are primarily derived from research analyst reports and take into consideration the following: i estimate of underlying NPV prepared by the analyst: ii estimate of target market capitalisation prepared by the analyst: iii market capitalisation on the date of the analyst report: and iv market capitalisation on the date of the impairment test.
The NPV multiple applied also takes into consideration the remaining economic life of the CGU.
For CGUs with a remaining economic life of five years or less, an NPV multiple on the lower end of the observed multiple range is utilised.
For other CGUs, the median observed NPV multiple is utilised.
The VIU of a CGU is generally lower than its FVLCS, due primarily to the application of a market multiple to the underlying NPV of a CGU when determining its FVLCS.
Consequently, the recoverable amount of a CGU for impairment testing purposes is determined based on its FVLCS.
t Contributed surplus The Company did not exist until 12 January 2010, and did not become the parent company for the Group until 22 February 2010 when the transfer of the members of the Group pursuant to the Pre-IPO Reorganisation was completed.
Contributed surplus represents the difference between the cumulative investment in the entities and businesses which form part of the consolidated African Barrick Gold plc Group and non-controlling interests.
u Share capital Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
v Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Rehabilitation costs The mining, extraction and processing activities of the Group normally give rise to obligations for environmental rehabilitation.
Rehabilitation works can include facility decommissioning and dismantling: removal or treatment of waste materials: and site and land rehabilitation.
The extent of work required and the associated costs are dependent on the requirements of relevant authorities and the Groups environmental policies.
Provisions for the cost of each rehabilitation programme are recognised at the time that environmental disturbance occurs.
When the extent of disturbance increases over the life of an operation, the provision is increased accordingly.
The major parts of the carrying amount of provisions relate to tailings pond closure rehabilitation: demolition of buildings mine facilities: ongoing water treatment: and ongoing care and maintenance of closed mines.
Costs included in the provision encompass all closure and rehabilitation activity expected to occur progressively over the life of the operation and at the time of closure in connection with disturbances at the reporting date.
Estimated costs included in the determination of the provision reflect the risks and probabilities of alternative estimates of cash flows required to settle the obligation at each particular operation.
Routine operating costs that may impact the ultimate closure and rehabilitation activities, such as waste material handling conducted as an integral part of a mining or production process, are not included in the provision.
Costs arising from unforeseen circumstances, such as the contamination caused by unplanned discharges, are recognised as an expense and liability when the event occurs that gives rise to an obligation and reliable estimates of the required rehabilitation costs can be made.
The timing of the actual rehabilitation expenditure is dependent upon a number of factors such as the life and nature of the asset, the operating licence conditions and the environment in which the mine operates.
Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can continue for an extended period of time depending on rehabilitation requirements.
The majority of the expenditure is expected to be paid over periods of up to 30 years with some payments into perpetuity.
Rehabilitation provisions are measured at the expected value of future cash flows, discounted to their present value using a current, market-based estimate of the real risk-free pre-tax discount rates.
The unwinding of the discount is included in finance expense and results in an increase in the amount of the provision.
Provisions are updated each reporting period for the effect of a change in the discount rate and the change in estimate is added or deducted from the related asset and depreciated prospectively over the assets useful life.
com 118 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Significant judgements and estimates are involved in forming expectations of future activities and the amount and timing of the associated cash flows.
Those expectations are formed based on existing environmental and regulatory requirements or, if more stringent, Group environmental s Impairment of non-current assets continued policies which give rise to a constructive obligation.
In determining FVLCS, a market multiple is applied to the NPV of each CGU.
Gold companies typically trade at a market capitalisation that is When provisions for closure and rehabilitation are initially recognised, the corresponding cost is capitalised as an asset, representing part of the based on a multiple of their underlying NPV.
Consequently, a market participant would generally apply an NPV multiple when estimating the cost of acquiring the future economic benefits of the operation.
The capitalised cost of closure and rehabilitation activities is recognised in fair value of a gold property.
The NPV multiples utilised in the determination of the FVLCS of a CGU consider the NPV multiples observed on property, plant and equipment and depreciated accordingly.
These observed multiples are primarily derived from research analyst reports and take into consideration the following: i estimate of underlying NPV prepared by the analyst: ii estimate of target market capitalisation prepared by the analyst: iii market capitalisation It is possible that managements estimates of provisions could change as a result of changes in regulations, the extent of rehabilitation required, on the date of the analyst report: and iv market capitalisation on the date of the impairment test.
The NPV multiple applied also takes into and the means of reclamation or cost estimates.
Rehabilitation provisions are adjusted as a result of changes in estimates.
Those adjustments are consideration the remaining economic life of the CGU.
For CGUs with a remaining economic life of five years or less, an NPV multiple on the accounted for as a change in the corresponding value of the related asset, except where a reduction in the provision is greater than the remaining net lower end of the observed multiple range is utilised.
book value of the related assets, in which case the value is reduced to nil and the remaining adjustment is recognised in the income statement.
In the The VIU of a CGU is generally lower than its FVLCS, due primarily to the application of a market multiple to the underlying NPV of a CGU when case of closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Changes to the capitalised cost result in an determining its FVLCS.
adjustment to future depreciation and finance expense.
On an annual basis, the Group reviews for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or life of operations.
t Contributed surplus w Employee benefits The Company did not exist until 12 January 2010, and did not become the parent company for the Group until 22 February 2010 when the transfer of the members of the Group pursuant to the Pre-IPO Reorganisation was completed.
Contributed surplus represents the difference The Group operates an equity-settled, share-based compensation plan the Stock Option Plan, a long-term incentive plan the LTIP and between the cumulative investment in the entities and businesses which form part of the consolidated African Barrick Gold plc Group and a legacy restricted share unit plan the Legacy RSU Plan.
Share-based payments u Share capital Issue of Stock Options Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as Stock options can be granted under either the Company LTIP or the Stock Option Plan.
The Company receives services from employees as a deduction from the proceeds.
consideration for equity instruments options of the Group.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted: v Provisions including any market performance conditions: Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets and of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period : and current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
excluding the impact of any non-vesting conditions for example, the requirement for employees to save.
Rehabilitation costs Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
At the end of each reporting period, The mining, extraction and processing activities of the Group normally give rise to obligations for environmental rehabilitation.
Rehabilitation the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the works can include facility decommissioning and dismantling: removal or treatment of waste materials: and site and land rehabilitation.
The extent impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
of work required and the associated costs are dependent on the requirements of relevant authorities and the Groups environmental policies.
When the options are exercised, the Company may issue new shares or procure the transfer of existing shares to satisfy the exercise.
Where Provisions for the cost of each rehabilitation programme are recognised at the time that environmental disturbance occurs.
When the extent of shares are issued, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share disturbance increases over the life of an operation, the provision is increased accordingly.
The major parts of the carrying amount of provisions premium when the options are exercised.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary relate to tailings pond closure rehabilitation: demolition of buildings mine facilities: ongoing water treatment: and ongoing care and maintenance undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant of closed mines.
Costs included in the provision encompass all closure and rehabilitation activity expected to occur progressively over the life of date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit the operation and at the time of closure in connection with disturbances at the reporting date.
Estimated costs included in the determination of to equity.
the provision reflect the risks and probabilities of alternative estimates of cash flows required to settle the obligation at each particular operation.
Routine operating costs that may impact the ultimate closure and rehabilitation activities, such as waste material handling conducted as an LTIP integral part of a mining or production process, are not included in the provision.
Costs arising from unforeseen circumstances, such as the The Company has a cash-settled, Restricted Share Unit RSU plan for select employees.
Under the terms of the RSU plan, selected employees are contamination caused by unplanned discharges, are recognised as an expense and liability when the event occurs that gives rise to an obligation granted RSUs where each RSU has a value equal to one Ordinary Share of the Company.
RSUs vest over a two-and-a-half or three-year period and and reliable estimates of the required rehabilitation costs can be made.
Additional RSUs are credited to reflect dividends paid on Ordinary Shares of the Company during the vesting period with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
A liability for RSUs is measured at fair value on the grant date and is recognised on a straightThe timing of the actual rehabilitation expenditure is dependent upon a number of factors such as the life and nature of the asset, the operating line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
At the grant date the fair value of the awards is licence conditions and the environment in which the mine operates.
Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can continue for an determined from the market value of the shares at the date of award and adjusted for any market based vesting conditions attached to the award extended period of time depending on rehabilitation requirements.
The majority of the expenditure is expected to be paid over periods of up to e. g. relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance.
Changes in the fair value of the RSU liability, due to changes in the price of Ordinary 30 years with some payments into perpetuity.
Rehabilitation provisions are measured at the expected value of future cash flows, discounted to Shares of the Company, are recorded each period, with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
Compensation expenses recognised their present value using a current, market-based estimate of the real risk-free pre-tax discount rates.
The unwinding of the discount is included for RSUs incorporate an estimate for expected forfeiture rates.
The expected forfeiture is estimated based on historical forfeiture rates of the Group in finance expense and results in an increase in the amount of the provision.
Provisions are updated each reporting period for the effect of a pre-IPO and expectations of future forfeiture rates.
Adjustments to compensation expense are recognised in periods where the actual forfeiture rate change in the discount rate and the change in estimate is added or deducted from the related asset and depreciated prospectively over the assets differs from the expected rate.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 119 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued w Employee benefits continued Legacy RSU Plan Historically, the Barrick Group has maintained a Restricted Share Unit RSU plan for select employees who now work for the Group.
This plan operates in an incidental manner to the Company RSU plan.
These existing legacy restricted share units will continue to be administered and accounted for based on the movement of the fair value of the Barrick Ordinary Share for recording of liabilities and compensation expense.
Defined contribution plan The Groups Tanzanian employees are members of either the National Social Security Fund NSSF or of the Parastatal Pension Fund PPF, which are defined contribution plans.
A defined contribution plan is a plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contribution if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to the employee service in the current and prior periods.
The Group and employees both contribute 10% of the employees gross salaries to the schemes.
The contributions are charged to the income statement when they are due.
Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either: terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to their present value.
Bonus plans The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses where it is contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
Other entitlements The estimated monetary liability for employees accrued annual leave entitlement at the balance sheet date is recognised as an expense accrual.
x Financial instruments Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents include cash, and money market funds.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available for sale.
These are initially recognised at fair value, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets, where the receivables are discounted and held at their net present value.
Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, other assets and cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the expected cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
com 120 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Embedded derivatives w Employee benefits continued Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related Legacy RSU Plan to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives.
Historically, the Barrick Group has maintained a Restricted Share Unit RSU plan for select employees who now work for the Group.
These existing legacy restricted share units will continue to be administered Financial liabilities and accounted for based on the movement of the fair value of the Barrick Ordinary Share for recording of liabilities and compensation expense.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: any Defined contribution plan difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the The Groups Tanzanian employees are members of either the National Social Security Fund NSSF or of the Parastatal Pension Fund PPF, loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down which are defined contribution plans.
A defined contribution plan is a plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate occurs.
To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a preentity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contribution if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all payment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities employees the benefits relating to the employee service in the current and prior periods.
The Group and employees both contribute 10% of unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
the employees gross salaries to the schemes.
y Finance income and finance expense Termination benefits Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest rate of the accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as interest income.
either: terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance Interest is recognised as a borrowing cost on a time proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs that relate directly to sheet date are discounted to their present value.
the construction of property, plant and equipment during the time that it is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
Bonus plans z Taxes The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses where it is contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income Other entitlements or directly in equity, respectively.
The estimated monetary liability for employees accrued annual leave entitlement at the balance sheet date is recognised as an expense accrual.
Current income tax x Financial instruments Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid Cash and cash equivalents to the taxation authorities.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents include authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
cash, and money market funds.
Deferred income tax Loans and receivables Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates enacted or Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available for sale.
These are initially recognised income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary at fair value, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
They are included in current assets, except for differences can be utilised.
maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, other assets and cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date.
Where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss: and A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary expected cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, Derivatives to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, Where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary differences arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a the nature of the item being hedged.
transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 121 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued z Taxes continued The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, in respect of enquiries raised and additional tax assessments issued, have been measured using the single best estimate of likely outcome approach.
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current income tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Indirect tax Indirect tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in indirect tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions or receivables where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to or received from the tax authorities.
If the receivable is expected to be received in more than 12 months from year end, the receivable is discounted and held at its present value.
Amounts expected to be payable or receivable in more than 12 months are classified as non-current assets or liabilities in the balance sheet, as appropriate.
aa Royalties Royalty arrangements based on mineral production are in place at each operating mine.
The primary type of royalty is a net smelter return NSR royalty.
Under this type of royalty the Group pays the holder an amount calculated as the royalty percentage multiplied by the value of gold production at market gold prices less third-party smelting, refining and transportation costs.
The Buzwagi mine is also subject to a net profits interest NPI arrangement and a production sharing arrangement held by separate third parties.
The NPI is calculated as a percentage of profits realised from the Buzwagi mine after all capital, exploration and development costs and interest incurred in relation to the Buzwagi mine have been recouped and all operating costs relating to the Buzwagi mine have been paid.
The production sharing arrangement commences after 2 million ounces of gold have been produced, as at 31 December 2010 375,050 ounces have been produced.
After this level of production, US$1 per ounce produced is payable based on a gold price of US$300 per ounce and the amount must be increased pro rata to reflect current gold prices.
The North Mara mine is also subject to a land royalty land tenements LT based on the net revenue derived from the open pit mines.
Royalty expense is recorded when revenue from the sale of gold, copper and silver production is recognised.
The following percentages apply: Bulyanhulu 3% NSR Tulawaka 3% NSR North Mara Nyabirama and Nyabigena pits 3% NSR, 1% LT North Mara Gokona pit 3% NSR, 1.1% LT Buzwagi 3% NSR, 30%NPI The NPI is calculated as a percentage of profits realised from the Buzwagi mine after all capital, exploration and development costs and interest incurred in relation to the Buzwagi mine have been recouped and all operating costs relating to the Buzwagi mine have been paid.
No amount is currently payable.
bb Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the consolidated financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
com 122 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 2.
SEGMENT REPORTING z Taxes continued The Group has only one primary product produced in a single geographic location, being gold produced in Tanzania.
In addition the Group produces copper and silver as a co-product.
Reportable operating segments are based on the internal reports provided to the Chief Operating The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable Decision Maker CODM to evaluate segment performance, decide how to allocate resources and make other operating decisions.
After that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
applying the aggregation criteria and quantitative thresholds contained in IFRS 8, the Groups reportable operating segments were determined to be: North Mara gold mine: Tulawaka gold mine: Bulyanhulu gold mine: Buzwagi gold mine: and a separate Corporate and Exploration Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable segment, which primarily consists of costs related to corporate administration and exploration and evaluation activities Other.
that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Segment results and assets include items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, inventories and receivables.
Capital expenditures comprise additions to liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Segment liabilities are not reported since they are not considered by the CODM as material to segment Uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, in respect of enquiries raised and additional tax assessments issued, have been measured using performance.
The Group has also included segment cash operating costs.
the single best estimate of likely outcome approach.
Segment information for the reportable operating segments of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 is set Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current income tax assets For the year ended 31 December 2010 in thousands of United States dollars North Mara Tulawaka Bulyanhulu Buzwagi Other Total against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Gold revenue 268,762 78,499 327,847 246,194 921,302 Indirect tax Co-product revenue 804 148 31,977 20,790 53,719 1 Indirect tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the Total segment revenue 269,566 78,647 359,824 266,984 975,021 2 taxation authorities.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in indirect tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax Segment cash operating cost 103,983 45,450 173,491 156,600 50,297 529,821 3 regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions or receivables where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to Other charges 12,743 5,865 5,100 14,408 353 26,033 or received from the tax authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted 4, 5 EBITDA 152,840 39,062 181,233 95,976 49,944 419,167 by the balance sheet date.
If the receivable is expected to be received in more than 12 months from year end, the receivable is discounted and Depreciation and amortisation 28,018 10,622 28,386 39,087 3,402 109,515 held at its present value.
Amounts expected to be payable or receivable in more than 12 months are classified as non-current assets or liabilities 4 EBIT 124,822 28,440 152,847 56,889 53,346 309,652 in the balance sheet, as appropriate.
Total segment finance income 1,202 aa Royalties Total segment finance expense 1,777 Profit before tax 309,077 Royalty arrangements based on mineral production are in place at each operating mine.
The primary type of royalty is a net smelter return Income tax expense 86,471 NSR royalty.
Under this type of royalty the Group pays the holder an amount calculated as the royalty percentage multiplied by the value Net profit for the period 222,606 of gold production at market gold prices less third-party smelting, refining and transportation costs.
The Buzwagi mine is also subject to a net profits interest NPI arrangement and a production sharing arrangement held by separate third Capital expenditure: parties.
The NPI is calculated as a percentage of profits realised from the Buzwagi mine after all capital, exploration and development costs and Sustaining 26,217 9,748 71,387 18,844 7,116 133,312 interest incurred in relation to the Buzwagi mine have been recouped and all operating costs relating to the Buzwagi mine have been paid.
The Expansionary 59,043 2,758 357 973 63,131 production sharing arrangement commences after 2 million ounces of gold have been produced, as at 31 December 2010 375,050 ounces have Rehabilitation asset adjustment 6,182 3,007 8,795 9,964 27,948 been produced.
After this level of production, US$1 per ounce produced is payable based on a gold price of US$300 per ounce and the amount Total capital expenditure 91,442 15,513 80,539 29,781 7,116 224,391 must be increased pro rata to reflect current gold prices.
Cash costs: 2 Segmental cash operating cost 103,983 45,450 173,491 156,600 479,524 Royalty expense is recorded when revenue from the sale of gold, copper and silver production is recognised.
Deduct: co-product revenue 804 148 31,977 20,790 53,719 The following percentages apply: Total cash costs 103,179 45,302 141,514 135,810 425,805 6 Sold ounces 218,684 63,909 262,442 198,221 743,256 Bulyanhulu 3% NSR Cash cost per ounce sold4 472 709 539 685 573 Tulawaka 3% NSR 7 Equity ounce adjustment 4 North Mara Nyabirama and Nyabigena pits 3% NSR, 1% LT Attributable cash cost per ounce sold4 569 North Mara Gokona pit 3% NSR, 1.1% LT Buzwagi 3% NSR, 30%NPI The NPI is calculated as a percentage of profits realised from the Buzwagi mine after all capital, exploration and development costs and interest incurred in relation to the Buzwagi mine have been recouped and all operating costs relating to the Buzwagi mine have been paid.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 123 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Previously co-product revenue was regarded as by-products and included in cost of sales.
2 The Chief Decision Maker reviews cash operating costs for the four operating mine sites separately from corporate administration costs and exploration costs.
Consequently, the Group has reported these costs in this manner.
3 Foreign exchange gains and losses were included in Cash operating costs as per the Prospectus.
In the analysis above they have been reclassified to other charges.
4 These are non-IFRS financial performance measures with no standard meaning under IFRS.
Refer to Non IFRS measures on page 54 for definitions.
5 Indirect corporate administration costs previously on-charged to the sites have been excluded from the individual sites EBITDA and included in Other for 2010 and 2009.
7 Reflects the adjustment for non-controlling interests at Tulawaka.
As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Segment assets North Mara 603,739 528,667 Tulawaka 104,003 93,612 Bulyanhulu 1,109,740 1,026,668 Buzwagi 724,467 664,383 8, 9 Other 385,159 51,898 Total segment assets 2,927,108 2,365,228 8 During the current year assets to the value of US$102 million were acquired from the purchase of Tusker.
Net cash proceeds of US$269 million were received from the IPO.
9 Assets relating to restrictive share unit liabilities of US$7.5 million have been reclassified and offset against the liability.
This is different to the Prospectus where the asset was shown separately as part of non-current assets.
As this amount has an immaterial impact on the opening position, no opening balance sheet is presented.
com 124 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 3.
REVENUE For the year ended 31 December 2009 For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars North Mara Tulawaka Bulyanhulu Buzwagi Other Total in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Gold revenue 204,760 90,446 244,513 153,693 693,412 Gold dor sales 576,839 540,617 Co-product revenue 753 160 16,669 188 17,770 1 Gold concentrate sales 344,463 152,795 1 Total segment revenue 205,513 90,606 261,182 153,881 711,182 2 Copper concentrate sales 47,279 14,531 2 Segment cash operating cost 107,174 38,757 182,665 65,081 46,630 440,307 2 Silver sales 6,440 3,239 3 Other charges 9,511 1,988 19,976 2,581 12,637 21,419 Total 975,021 711,182 4, 5 EBITDA 88,828 49,861 58,541 86,219 33,993 249,456 1 Gold and copper concentrate sales includes provisional price adjustments to the accounts receivable balance due to changes in market gold and copper prices prior to final settlement Depreciation and amortisation 25,890 20,935 26,894 16,991 2,640 93,350 as follows: US$3.2 million for the year ended 31 December 2010 2009: US$1.2 million.
4 EBIT 62,938 28,926 31,647 69,228 36,633 156,106 2 Revenue from the sale of co-products, such as copper and silver, contained in concentrates is recognised in revenue.
As detailed in Note 2a, per the Prospectus co-product revenue was treated as a by-product and credited to cost of sales.
Managements decision to make this change was a result of co-product revenue becoming increasingly significant to the Total segment finance income 361 Group, increasing 202% year-on-year primarily as a result of Buzwagi commencing its production of copper, but also due to an increases in copper prices, copper sales have been Total segment finance expense 6,062 reclassified to revenue where they are disclosed as a co-product.
Profit before tax 150,405 For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December Income tax expense 84,388 in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Net profit for the period 66,017 3 Revenue by location of customer Europe Capital expenditure: Switzerland 576,839 540,617 Sustaining 28,012 2,546 56,694 8,059 389 95,700 Germany 32,491 3,914 Expansionary 17,876 3,655 2,286 87,851 111,668 Asia Rehabilitation asset adjustment 226 1,683 603 13,388 15,900 China 298,676 118,896 Total capital expenditure 46,114 7,884 59,583 109,298 389 223,268 Japan 67,015 47,755 Total revenue 975,021 711,182 Cash costs: 3 Revenue by location of customer is determined based on the country to which the gold is delivered.
2 Segmental cash operating cost 107,174 38,757 182,665 65,081 393,677 Included in revenues for the year ended 31 December 2010 are revenues of approximately US$567 million 2009: US$104 million which arose Deduct: co-product revenue 753 160 16,669 188 17,770 from sales to two of the Groups largest customers.
During the year ended 31 December 2009 as well as the first quarter of 2010 all gold dor Total cash costs 106,421 38,597 165,996 64,893 375,907 6 sales were made to BIBC, a related party.
No other customers individually Sold ounces 209,495 93,413 255,121 153,682 711,711 account for more than 10% of the Groups revenues.
Cash cost per ounce sold4 508 413 651 422 528 7 Equity ounce adjustment 5 5.
COST OF SALES Attributable cash cost per ounce sold4 533 For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December 1 Revenue includes the incidental revenue derived from the sale of co-products.
2009 figures in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 have been restated.
1 Direct mining costs 447,974 370,766 2 The Chief Decision Maker reviews cash operating costs for the four operating mine sites separately from corporate administration costs and exploration costs.
Consequently, the 2 Depreciation 109,515 93,350 Group has reported these costs in this manner.
Royalty expense 31,550 22,911 3 Foreign exchange gains and losses were included in Cash operating costs as per the Prospectus.
3 4 These are non-IFRS financial performance measures with no standard meaning under IFRS.
Total 589,039 487,027 5 Indirect corporate administration costs previously on-charged to the sites have been excluded from the individual sites EBITDA and included in Other for 2010 and 2009.
1 Direct mining costs includes charges to reduce the cost of inventory to net realisable value as follows: US$ nil for the year ended 31 December 2010 2009: US$2.3 million.
2 Depreciation includes the depreciation component relating to the cost of inventory sold.
3 Cost of sales less depreciation equals cash operating costs.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 125 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 6.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Wages and salaries 113,221 106,352 1 Other employee benefits 51,193 27,035 2 Share-based payments charge 3,756 40 Total 168,170 133,427 1 Other employee benefits include bonuses, leave pay, pensions, medical expenses and other benefits.
2 Further details of the Groups stock options and other share based payment plans are given in Note 24.
Details of Directors remuneration can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 87 to 95.
Average number of employees For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands 2010 2009 Operations 4,351 3,993 Administration 226 186 Total average headcount 4,577 4,179 7.
EXPLORATION AND EVALUATION The following represents a summary of exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred at each mine site and significant exploration targets if applicable.
For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Expensed during the year: North Mara 1,402 Buzwagi 3,023 Tulawaka 2,343 2,242 Bulyanhulu 419 1 Other 12,099 2,204 Total expensed 14,861 8,871 Capitalised during the year: North Mara 8,065 950 Buzwagi 973 Tulawaka 2,758 1,641 Bulyanhulu 357 170 Total capitalised 12,153 2,761 Total 27,014 11,632 1 Included in other are the exploration activities conducted through Barrick Exploration Africa Ltd. All primary greenfield exploration and evaluation activities are conducted in this Company.
com 126 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 6.
OTHER CHARGES For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Wages and salaries 113,221 106,352 Other expenses 1 Other employee benefits 51,193 27,035 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 90 1,204 2 Share-based payments charge 3,756 40 Discounting of indirect tax receivables 6,808 6,903 Total 168,170 133,427 Environmental clean-up 878 Severance payments 969 1 Other employee benefits include bonuses, leave pay, pensions, medical expenses and other benefits.
1 Foreign exchange losses net 7,863 10,705 2 Further details of the Groups stock options and other share based payment plans are given in Note 24.
Unrealised non-hedge derivative losses 3,658 Details of Directors remuneration can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 87 to 95.
Asset write-down 143 Average number of employees Transaction cost associated with listing 2,575 Social development cost 3,467 1,026 For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December 2 Insurance 1,840 in thousands 2010 2009 3 Buzwagi fuel claim 2,539 Operations 4,351 3,993 Other 3,577 861 Administration 226 186 Total 32,417 22,689 Total average headcount 4,577 4,179 Other income 7.
EXPLORATION AND EVALUATION Insurance proceeds 4,535 The following represents a summary of exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred at each mine site and significant exploration targets 4 Other 1,849 1,270 if applicable.
Total 6,384 1,270 For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Total other charges 26,033 21,419 Expensed during the year: 1 Gains and losses on the translation of foreign currency translations are deemed to be part of other charges.
This has been reclassified since the Prospectus where it was classified as North Mara 1,402 part of corporate administration.
Buzwagi 3,023 2 Pre-IPO insurance costs were borne by the parent company BGC and not recharged.
Tulawaka 2,343 2,242 3 Fuel duty receivable previously recognised has been derecognised following the Buzwagi fuel theft incident.
Bulyanhulu 419 4 Other income represents the gain recognised following the waiving of payables balances owed to related parties.
1 Other 12,099 2,204 Foreign exchange differences on working capital items Total expensed 14,861 8,871 During the year, the Group experienced the following foreign exchange difference relating to working capital items: Capitalised during the year: North Mara 8,065 950 For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December Buzwagi 973 in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Tulawaka 2,758 1,641 Loss on foreign exchange differences relating to working capital items 10,698 10,893 Bulyanhulu 357 170 Total capitalised 12,153 2,761 Total 27,014 11,632 1 Included in other are the exploration activities conducted through Barrick Exploration Africa Ltd. All primary greenfield exploration and evaluation activities are conducted in this Company.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 127 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 9.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION During the year the Group including its subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditor s : For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Audit fees Fees payable for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 384 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 547 484 Other services pursuant to legislation 133 46 Tax services 202 249 1 Other services in connection with the capital raising 1,314 4,630 Other services 162 Total 2,742 5,409 1 The majority of capital raising costs paid were capitalised against Share Premium.
FINANCE INCOME AND FINANCE EXPENSE a Finance income For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Interest on time deposits 720 361 Other 482 Total 1,202 361 b Finance expense For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Unwinding of discount Note 26 1,365 1,169 Interest on bank overdraft and external debt 202 4,893 1 Other 210 2 Total 1,777 6,062 1 Included in other finance expense is the amortisation of the fee relating to the revolving credit facility.
2 For cash flow purposes unwinding of discount is excluded from the finance expense movement.
com 128 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 9.
TAX EXPENSE For the year ended For the year ended During the year the Group including its subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditor s : 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December Current tax: in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Current tax on profits for the period 291 Audit fees Adjustments in respect of prior years Fees payable for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 384 Total current tax 291 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Deferred tax Note 20 : Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 547 484 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 86,180 84,388 Other services pursuant to legislation 133 46 Total deferred tax 86,180 84,388 Tax services 202 249 Income tax expense 86,471 84,388 1 Other services in connection with the capital raising 1,314 4,630 Other services 162 The tax on the Groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to the profits of the consolidated entities as follows: Total 2,742 5,409 1 The majority of capital raising costs paid were capitalised against Share Premium.
For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 10.
FINANCE INCOME AND FINANCE EXPENSE Profit before tax 309,077 150,405 a Finance income Tax calculated at domestic tax rates applicable to profits in the respective countries 88,186 45,130 For the year ended For the year ended Tax effects of: 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Non-taxable income expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2,908 3,995 Interest on time deposits 720 361 Tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised 4,347 2,883 Other 482 Prior year adjustments 2,201 1,681 1 Total 1,202 361 Adjustment to unrecognised tax benefits carried forward 36,892 Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 63 2 b Finance expense Other 890 425 For the year ended For the year ended Tax charge 86,471 84,388 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 1 The 2009 reconciliation includes an amount of US$36.9 million relating to an increase in the amount of unrecognised tax benefits carried forward.
The adjustment reflects uncertainty regarding recoverability of certain tax losses, and gives rise to an increased deferred tax charge.
The Group anticipates that the amount of unrecognised tax benefits Unwinding of discount Note 26 1,365 1,169 may change within 12 months of the reporting date through a potential settlement with tax authorities, which may result in an adjustment to available tax losses.
Interest on bank overdraft and external debt 202 4,893 The tax rate in Tanzania is 30% and in South Africa 28% for both years presented.
1 Other 210 2 Total 1,777 6,062 Tax periods remain open to review by the Tanzanian Revenue Authority TRA in respect of income taxes for five years following the date 1 Included in other finance expense is the amortisation of the fee relating to the revolving credit facility.
of the filing of the corporate tax return, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances the reviews may cover longer periods.
Because a number of tax periods remain open to review by tax 2 For cash flow purposes unwinding of discount is excluded from the finance expense movement.
authorities, there is a risk that transactions that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest.
The 2009 reconciliation includes an amount of US$36.9 million relating to an increase in the amount of unrecognised tax benefits carried forward.
The Group anticipates that the amount of unrecognised tax benefits may change within 12 months of the reporting date through a potential settlement with tax authorities, which may result in an adjustment to available tax losses.
With the exception of the adjustment made in 2009 in respect of unrecognised tax benefits, the Group has made no further provision in respect of such tax assessments refer to Note 31.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 129 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 12.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing profit for the period attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period.
For the purpose of calculating EPS, the share capital for the Company in the period prior to the Pre-IPO Reorganisation on 22 February 2010 is calculated as if this reorganisation was completed as at 1 January 2009.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The Company has dilutive potential Ordinary Shares in the form of stock options.
The weighted average number of shares is adjusted for the number of shares granted assuming the exercise of stock options.
At 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009, earnings per share have been calculated as follows: For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 in thousands of United States dollars Earnings Profit from continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent 218,103 58,577 1 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 410,085,499 410,085,499 Adjusted for dilutive effect of: Stock options 18,482 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share 410,103,981 410,085,499 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 53.2 14.3 Dilutive earnings per share from continuing operations 53.2 14.3 1 The prior year basic earnings per share comparative was calculated using the 2010 number of average weighted shares as the Company had not been formed in the prior year, and had no share capital.
DIVIDENDS An interim dividend of US$6.6 million US1.6 cents per share was paid during 2010 and recognised in the financial statements.
Refer to Note 34 for details of the final dividend declared subsequent to year end.
CASH FLOW OTHER ITEMS a Operating cash flows other items For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Adjustments for non-cash income statement items: Foreign exchange losses 7,585 10,569 Provision added 67 4,600 Unrealised loss on derivative copper options 3,658 Stock option expense 640 Other non-cash items 443 136 Exchange loss on revaluation of cash balances 278 136 Total 11,785 15,441 www.
com 130 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 12.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Adjustments for working capital items: For the year ended For the year ended Basic earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing profit for the period attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average 31 December 31 December number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period.
in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Trade receivables 2,384 16,822 For the purpose of calculating EPS, the share capital for the Company in the period prior to the Pre-IPO Reorganisation on 22 February 2010 is 1 Inventories 18,446 91,619 calculated as if this reorganisation was completed as at 1 January 2009.
Other current assets 48,802 2,757 2 Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding to assume conversion of all Other liabilities 6,527 7,055 dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The weighted average 3 Trade and other payables 28,513 33,621 number of shares is adjusted for the number of shares granted assuming the exercise of stock options.
Working capital adjustments relating to Tusker acquisition Note 22 3,734 4 Other working capital items 6,336 10,705 At 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009, earnings per share have been calculated as follows: Total 84,248 81,227 For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December 1 The inventory adjustment includes both the movement in inventories as well as the non-current portion of inventory.
2010 2009 in thousands of United States dollars 2 The other liabilities adjustment includes both the movement in current and non-current liabilities.
Earnings 3 The trade and other payables adjustment excludes statutory liabilities in the form of income tax payable.
Profit from continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent 218,103 58,577 4 Other working capital items includes exchange losses associated with working capital, as well as one off type working capital adjustments relating to minority interest and intercompany settlements.
1 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 410,085,499 410,085,499 b Investing cash flows other items Adjusted for dilutive effect of: For the year ended For the year ended Stock options 18,482 31 December 31 December Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share 410,103,981 410,085,499 in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Proceeds on sale of property, plant and equipment 183 138 Earnings per share 5 Other long-term receivables 4,033 31,806 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 53.2 14.3 Village housing receivable 135 419 Dilutive earnings per share from continuing operations 53.2 14.3 Tusker options movement 9,696 1 The prior year basic earnings per share comparative was calculated using the 2010 number of average weighted shares as the Company had not been formed in the prior year, and had Movement in rehabilitation liability 27,948 15,901 no share capital.
Total 14,537 16,186 5 Non-current asset movement relates to the investment in the powerline and land acquisitions reflected as prepaid operating leases: Tanzania government receivables: village housing 13.
DIVIDENDS project: and other items.
Note that for 2010 the long-term indirect tax movement has been reflected as part of working capital in the cash flow from operational activities section which amounted to US$36.7 million.
US$26.5 million was classified in 2009 in the non-current asset movement as part of the cash flow from investing activities.
An interim dividend of US$6.6 million US1.6 cents per share was paid during 2010 and recognised in the financial statements.
CASH FLOW OTHER ITEMS As at As at 31 December 31 December a Operating cash flows other items in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 For the year ended For the year ended Raw materials 31 December 31 December Ore in stockpiles 34,412 87,514 in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Mine operating supplies 140,411 130,771 Adjustments for non-cash income statement items: Work in process 36,568 38,883 Foreign exchange losses 7,585 10,569 Finished products Provision added 67 4,600 Gold dor bullion 5,936 5,969 Unrealised loss on derivative copper options 3,658 Gold, copper and silver concentrate 10,647 15,513 Stock option expense 640 Total current portion of inventory 227,974 278,650 Other non-cash items 443 136 1 Non-current ore in stockpiles 69,122 Exchange loss on revaluation of cash balances 278 136 Total 297,096 278,650 Total 11,785 15,441 1 During 2010 US$69.1 million of ore at Buzwagi and North Mara was classified as long term following managements assessment that these stockpiles will be processed after 2011.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 131 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 16.
TRADE AND OTHER CURRENT ASSETS As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Trade receivables: Amounts due from dor and concentrate sales 46,491 16,219 1 Other receivables 11,621 9,662 Due from related parties Note 32 2,131 37,518 Less: Provision for doubtful debt on other receivables 1,029 1,801 Total 59,214 61,598 1 Other receivables relates to employee and supplier backcharge-related receivables.
Trade receivables other than concentrate receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 day terms.
Concentrate receivables are generally on 60-120 day terms depending on the terms per contract.
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers in the ordinary course of business.
If collection is expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
The carrying value of trade receivables recorded in the financial statements represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any provisions for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Other current assets: 2 Current portion of indirect tax receivables 58,048 51,339 3 Other debtors and advance payments 12,055 6,142 Insurance receivable 325 830 Total 70,428 58,311 2 The total indirect tax receivable is US$121.2 million of which US$63.2 million is included in non-current assets.
This receivable is due from the Tanzanian Revenue Authority and it is anticipated to be offset against future corporation tax payments.
To reflect the time value of money the long-term portion of this receivable has been discounted at a rate of 5.7%.
3 Other debtors and advance payments relates to prepayments for insurance.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Cash at bank and on hand 389,158 69,726 Money market funds 11,854 Total 401,012 69,726 www.
com 132 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 16.
TRADE AND OTHER CURRENT ASSETS 18.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT As at As at Mineral 31 December 31 December properties and For the year ended 31 December 2010 in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Plant and mine development Assets under 1 in thousands of United States dollars equipment costs construction Total Trade receivables: At 1 January 2010, net of accumulated depreciation 784,122 625,030 88,920 1,498,072 Amounts due from dor and concentrate sales 46,491 16,219 Additions 224,391 224,391 1 Other receivables 11,621 9,662 Disposals write-downs 273 273 Due from related parties Note 32 2,131 37,518 Depreciation 45,839 61,233 107,072 Less: Provision for doubtful debt on other receivables 1,029 1,801 Transfers between categories 58,989 130,037 189,026 Total 59,214 61,598 At 31 December 2010 796,999 693,834 124,285 1,615,118 1 Other receivables relates to employee and supplier backcharge-related receivables.
Concentrate receivables are At 1 January 2010 generally on 60-120 day terms depending on the terms per contract.
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers in the ordinary course Cost 1,067,766 875,242 88,920 2,031,928 of business.
The Accumulated depreciation 283,644 250,212 533,856 carrying value of trade receivables recorded in the financial statements represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not Net carrying amount 784,122 625,030 88,920 1,498,072 hold any collateral as security.
At 31 December 2010 Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any Cost 1,125,072 1,005,279 124,285 2,254,636 provisions for impairment.
Accumulated depreciation 328,073 311,445 639,518 Net carrying amount 796,999 693,834 124,285 1,615,118 As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Mineral Other current assets: properties and 2 For the year ended 31 December 2009 Current portion of indirect tax receivables 58,048 51,339 Plant and mine development Assets under 1 in thousands of United States dollars equipment costs construction Total 3 Other debtors and advance payments 12,055 6,142 At 1 January 2009, net of accumulated depreciation 365,067 587,642 430,406 1,383,115 Insurance receivable 325 830 Additions 223,268 223,268 Total 70,428 58,311 Disposals write-downs 1,342 1,342 2 The total indirect tax receivable is US$121.2 million of which US$63.2 million is included in non-current assets.
This receivable is due from the Tanzanian Revenue Authority and it Depreciation 72,297 34,672 106,969 is anticipated to be offset against future corporation tax payments.
Transfers between categories 492,694 72,060 564,754 3 Other debtors and advance payments relates to prepayments for insurance.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS At 1 January 2009 As at As at 31 December 31 December Cost 578,457 803,182 430,406 1,812,045 in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Accumulated depreciation 213,390 215,540 428,930 Cash at bank and on hand 389,158 69,726 Net carrying amount 365,067 587,642 430,406 1,383,115 Money market funds 11,854 Total 401,012 69,726 At 31 December 2009, net of accumulated depreciation Cost 1,067,766 875,242 88,920 2,031,928 Accumulated depreciation 283,644 250,212 533,856 Net carrying amount 784,122 625,030 88,920 1,498,072 1 Assets under construction represents a sustaining capital expenditures incurred constructing tangible fixed assets related to operating mines and advance deposits made towards the purchase of tangible fixed assets: and b expansionary expenditure allocated to a project on a business combination or asset acquisition, and the subsequent costs incurred to develop the mine.
Once these assets are ready for their intended use, the balance is transferred to plant and equipment, and or mineral properties and mine development costs.
Property, plant and equipment includes assets relating to the design and construction costs of power transmission lines and related infrastructure.
At completion ownership was transferred to TANESCO in exchange for amortised repayment in the form of reduced electricity supply charges.
No future lease payment obligations are payable under these finance leases.
The following amounts were included in property, plant and equipment where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Cost capitalised finance leases 46,822 46,822 Accumulated depreciation 4,203 773 Net carrying amount 42,619 46,049 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 133 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 19.
GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Acquired exploration For the year ended 31 December 2010 and evaluation in thousands of United States dollars Goodwill properties Total 1 Opening net book amount 156,397 156,397 2 Additions 22,023 80,093 102,116 Closing net book value 178,420 80,093 258,513 At 31 December 2010 Cost 394,898 80,093 474,991 Accumulated impairment 216,478 216,478 Net book amount 178,420 80,093 258,513 For the year ended 31 December 2009 Mineral in thousands of United States dollars Goodwill Properties Total Opening net book amount 156,397 156,397 Closing net book value 156,397 156,397 At 31 December 2009 Cost 372,875 372,875 Accumulated impairment 216,478 216,478 Net book amount 156,397 156,397 1 The Groups opening goodwill arose from the acquisition of a subsidiary of Placer Dome Inc. on 19 January 2006 the acquisition date, by Barrick Gold Corporation.
The goodwill allocated to the Group has been presented as if the Group acquired this business as of the acquisition date.
2 Additions to Acquired exploration properties and Goodwill relate to the acquisition of Tusker Gold Ltd and are provisional pending receipt of the final valuation.
Refer to Note 22 for further details.
Goodwill and accumulated impairment losses by operating segments: in thousands of United States Dollars North Mara Bulyanhulu Tulawaka Other Total At 1 January 2009 21,046 121,546 13,805 156,397 At 1 January 2010 21,046 121,546 13,805 156,397 3 Additions 22,023 22,023 At 31 December 2010 21,046 121,546 13,805 22,023 178,420 Cost 237,524 121,546 13,805 22,023 394,898 Accumulated impairments 216,478 216,478 3 Goodwill amounting to US$22 million arose on the Groups acquisition of Tusker Gold Ltd on 27 April 2010.
In accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets a review for impairment of goodwill is undertaken.
The review compared the recoverable amount for goodwill for each cash generating unit CGU to the carrying value of the CGU including goodwill.
The key economic assumptions used in this review were: For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 4 Long-term gold price per ounce $1,150 $950 5 South African Rand US$:ZAR 8.00 9.00 Tanzanian Shilling US$:TZS 1,400 1,320 Long-term oil price per barrel $75 $75 Discount rates 7.12%-8.67% 8.79%-10.37% NPV multiples 1.20-1.80 1.90-2.00 4 Short-term gold price of $1,250 per ounce used for 2011 and 2012 cash flow forecast.
5 Short-term exchange rate of 7.50 used for 2011 and 2012 cash flow forecast.
com 134 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 19.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Acquired Unrecognised deferred tax assets exploration For the year ended 31 December 2010 and evaluation Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: in thousands of United States dollars Goodwill properties Total 1 Opening net book amount 156,397 156,397 As at As at 31 December 31 December 2 Additions 22,023 80,093 102,116 in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Closing net book value 178,420 80,093 258,513 Tax losses 195,693 179,968 Total 195,693 179,968 At 31 December 2010 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items due to uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, or there being Cost 394,898 80,093 474,991 uncertainty regarding future taxable income against which these assets can be utilised.
Accumulated impairment 216,478 216,478 Net book amount 178,420 80,093 258,513 Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: For the year ended 31 December 2009 Mineral Assets Liabilities Net in thousands of United States dollars Goodwill Properties Total Balance sheet classifications Opening net book amount 156,397 156,397 in thousands of United States Dollars 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Closing net book value 156,397 156,397 Property, plant and equipment 441,758 410,293 441,758 410,293 Provisions 12,994 7,124 12,994 7,124 At 31 December 2009 Interest deferrals 7,213 16,175 7,213 16,175 Cost 372,875 372,875 Tusker acquisition 22,023 22,023 Accumulated impairment 216,478 216,478 Tax loss carry-forwards 428,658 480,289 428,658 480,289 Net book amount 156,397 156,397 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 448,865 503,588 463,781 410,293 14,916 93,295 1 The Groups opening goodwill arose from the acquisition of a subsidiary of Placer Dome Inc. on 19 January 2006 the acquisition date, by Barrick Gold Corporation.
Refer to Note 22 for Assets Liabilities Net further details.
Legal entities in thousands of United States Dollars 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Goodwill and accumulated impairment losses by operating segments: North Mara Gold Mine Limited 21,520 13,865 13,865 21,520 in thousands of United States Dollars North Mara Bulyanhulu Tulawaka Other Total Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Limited 121,116 159,668 121,116 159,668 At 1 January 2009 21,046 121,546 13,805 156,397 Pangea Minerals Limited 100,297 87,410 100,297 87,410 At 1 January 2010 21,046 121,546 13,805 156,397 Other 153 22,023 483 21,870 483 3 Additions 22,023 22,023 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 121,269 181,188 136,185 87,893 14,916 93,295 At 31 December 2010 21,046 121,546 13,805 22,023 178,420 Uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, in respect of enquiries raised and additional tax assessments issued by the TRA, have been Cost 237,524 121,546 13,805 22,023 394,898 measured using the single best estimate of likely outcome approach resulting in the recognition of substantially all the related deferred tax assets Accumulated impairments 216,478 216,478 and liabilities.
Alternative acceptable measurement policies e. g. on a weighted average expected outcome basis could result in a change to 3 Goodwill amounting to US$22 million arose on the Groups acquisition of Tusker Gold Ltd on 27 April 2010.
deferred tax assets and liabilities being recognised, and the deferred tax charge in the income statement.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 135 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 21.
OTHER ASSETS As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 1 Amounts due from government 24,844 23,098 Operating lease prepayments TANESCO powerlines 4,210 3,876 2 Prepayments Acquisition of rights over leasehold land 7,444 6,933 3 Non-current portion of indirect tax receivable 63,174 26,489 Village housing 465 600 4 Other 4,321 290 Total 104,458 61,286 1 Included in this amount are amounts receivable from the Tanzanian Social Security Fund of US$8.1 million 2009: US$6.7 million as well as amounts due from TANESCO for US$15.3 million 2009: US$16.4 million.
2 Prepayment made to the villagers in respect of acquisition of the rights over the use of leasehold land.
3 The non-current portion of the indirect tax receivables has been discounted to its current value using an effective interest rate of 5.7% 2009: 7.19%.
This resulted in a discounting charge of US$6.8 million 2009: US$6.9 million to the income statement, refer Note 8.
4 Assets relating to restrictive share unit liabilities of US$7.5 million have been reclassified and offset against the liability.
22. BUSINESS COMBINATION On 27 April 2010, the Company, through BUK Holdco Ltd, one of its immediate subsidiaries, purchased 100% of the issued share capital of Tusker Gold Ltd Tusker by way of a takeover offer for an aggregate net consideration of approximately US$74 million.
Tusker is an Australian based exploration company with a focus on gold.
Tusker was listed on the Australian Stock Exchange but was delisted from the Exchange as part of the acquisition.
All of Tuskers assets are located in Tanzania and consist of a significant gold resource base and additional exploration ground.
Details of the purchase consideration, the net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows: in thousands of United States dollars 2010 Purchase consideration 74,232 Foreign gain on cash settlement recognised in other charges 3,109 Total purchase consideration 71,123 The assets and liabilities as of 27 April 2010 recognised as a result of the acquisition are as follows: Acquirees in thousands of United States dollars Fair value carrying amount Cash and cash equivalents 8,014 8,014 Property, plant and equipment 115 115 Exploration and evaluation assets 79,533 5,740 Receivables 314 314 Deferred taxation liability 22,023 Payables 4,048 884 Stock options 9,696 9,696 Fair value of net assets 52,209 3,603 Goodwill 22,023 Total purchase consideration 74,232 Purchase consideration 74,232 Foreign gain on cash settlement recognised in other charges 3,109 Cash and cash equivalent in subsidiary acquired 8,014 Net cash outflow on acquisition 63,109 The goodwill arose after the application of IAS 12 Income taxes and is attributable principally to expanding growth opportunities in Tanzania.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The fair value of the acquired identifiable intangible assets, goodwill and deferred tax liability is provisional pending receipt of the final valuations for those assets.
com 136 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 21.
OTHER ASSETS Included in payables is the fair value of a contingent liability of US$3.5 million.
This relates to a US$4.6 million payment required to be made to the vendor on commencement of commercial production at Nyanzaga.
The assessed possibility that Nyanzaga has the potential to reach As at As at 31 December 31 December commercial production within four years is 75%.
in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 1 Amounts due from government 24,844 23,098 Acquisition costs incurred relating to the Tusker acquisition amounted to US$0.4 million and were all expensed as incurred.
Operating lease prepayments TANESCO powerlines 4,210 3,876 Cancellation of options 2 Prepayments Acquisition of rights over leasehold land 7,444 6,933 3 A total of 12,450,000 stock options were held by Tusker directors and employees at the time of the acquisition.
The holders of all options Non-current portion of indirect tax receivable 63,174 26,489 irrevocably agreed to cancel their options in exchange for a consideration of US$8.1 million, which formed part of the consideration.
Village housing 465 600 4 Other 4,321 290 On 31 December 2009, Tusker announced that it had appointed Argonaut Securities Ltd to provide assistance with any future capital raisings.
Total 104,458 61,286 Based on the terms of the arrangement, Argonaut will be remunerated for its services by Tusker agreeing to issue Argonaut with two million 1 Included in this amount are amounts receivable from the Tanzanian Social Security Fund of US$8.1 million 2009: US$6.7 million as well as amounts due from TANESCO for options with an exercise price of US30 cents, two million options with an exercise price of US50 cents and a further four million options with US$15.3 million 2009: US$16.4 million.
an exercise price of US80 cents.
The Argonaut agreement was cancelled in exchange for payment of an amount of US$1.6 million.
Expenses 3 The non-current portion of the indirect tax receivables has been discounted to its current value using an effective interest rate of 5.7% 2009: 7.19%.
The acquired business contributed expenses of US$765,822 to the Group for the period from 30 April 2010 to 31 December 2010.
If the acquisition 4 Assets relating to restrictive share unit liabilities of US$7.5 million have been reclassified and offset against the liability.
This is different to the Prospectus where the asset was shown had occurred on 1 January 2010, consolidated loss for the year ended 31 December 2010 would have been US$2.7 million.
These amounts have separately as part of non-current assets.
been calculated using the Groups accounting policies.
SHARE CAPITAL On 27 April 2010, the Company, through BUK Holdco Ltd, one of its immediate subsidiaries, purchased 100% of the issued share capital of Share capital Share premium Number 000 US$000 US$000 Tusker Gold Ltd Tusker by way of a takeover offer for an aggregate net consideration of approximately US$74 million.
Tusker was listed on the Australian Stock Exchange but was delisted from the At 12 January 2010 1 Exchange as part of the acquisition.
All of Tuskers assets are located in Tanzania and consist of a significant gold resource base and additional Issuance of Ordinary Shares to BGC 303,246,949 30,325 45,796 exploration ground.
Issuance of shares on IPO 101,082,317 10,108 15,415 870,950 Issuance of over-allotment shares 5,756,232 576 886 50,085 Details of the purchase consideration, the net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows: Transaction costs 53,933 in thousands of United States dollars 2010 At 31 December 2010 410,085,499 41,009 62,097 867,102 Purchase consideration 74,232 Incorporation of Company and Pre-IPO Reorganisation Foreign gain on cash settlement recognised in other charges 3,109 Total purchase consideration 71,123 The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 12 January 2010 as a private limited company with a share capital of one Ordinary Share of 1.
The assets and liabilities as of 27 April 2010 recognised as a result of the acquisition are as follows: On 19 February 2010 the Company entered into a share exchange agreement pursuant to which it acquired the entire issued share capital of Acquirees BUK Holdco Ltd, an intermediate holding company of members of the Group, from members of Barrick Gold Corporations group in return in thousands of United States dollars Fair value carrying amount for issuing 943,464 Ordinary Shares of 1 each at a premium of 999 per share.
Cash and cash equivalents 8,014 8,014 Property, plant and equipment 115 115 On 22 February 2010 the Company entered into a share exchange agreement pursuant to which it acquired the entire issued share capital of Exploration and evaluation assets 79,533 5,740 1816962 Ontario Inc from BGC, an intermediate holding company of members of the Group, in return for issuing 375,000 Ordinary Shares of Receivables 314 314 1 each at a premium of 999 per share.
Deferred taxation liability 22,023 The Company subsequently entered into a reduction of capital, eliminating share premium of US$1,989,138 to create distributable reserves, Payables 4,048 884 and restructured its share capital so as to reduce the nominal value of each of its Ordinary Shares to 10 pence.
Following the share capital Stock options 9,696 9,696 restructuring the Company made a bonus issue of shares to its then existing shareholders in preparation for the IPO, resulting in a total of Fair value of net assets 52,209 3,603 303,246,950 Ordinary Shares being in issue prior to the IPO.
Goodwill 22,023 Total purchase consideration 74,232 Re-registration of the Company as a public company Purchase consideration 74,232 On 12 March 2010, the Company re-registered as a public limited company.
Foreign gain on cash settlement recognised in other charges 3,109 Cash and cash equivalent in subsidiary acquired 8,014 Issuance of shares on IPO Net cash outflow on acquisition 63,109 On 24 March 2010, the Company successfully completed its IPO.
A total number of 101,082,317 shares with a par value of 10 pence each were issued at a price of 575 pence per share for a total of 581,223,322 US$886,365,567 net of underwriter fees.
On 15 April 2010 the Company The goodwill arose after the application of IAS 12 Income taxes and is attributable principally to expanding growth opportunities in issued a further 5,756,232 Ordinary Shares at a price of 575 pence per share for a total of 33,098,334 US$52,275,508 pursuant to the exercise Tanzania.
The fair value of the acquired identifiable intangible assets, of the over-allotment option granted in connection with the IPO.
Total costs related to the issuance of new shares taken against share premium goodwill and deferred tax liability is provisional pending receipt of the final valuations for those assets.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 137 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 24.
STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION Stock options Stock options are granted to Executive Directors and to selected employees.
The exercise price of the granted options is determined by the Compensation committee before the grant of an option provided that this price cannot be less than the average of the middle-market quotation of such shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the three dealing days immediately preceding the date of grant.
All options outstanding at the end of the year expire in 2017.
None of the options granted were exercisable at 31 December 2010.
The vesting period of the options is four years, with an exercise period of three years.
Movements in the number of options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are reflected in pence as follows: Average exercise Average exercise price in pence price in pence per share Options per share Options For the year ended 31 December 2010 2010 2009 2009 At 1 January Granted 539 1,326,459 Forfeited 568 105,000 At 31 December 536 1,211,459 The weighted average fair value of the options granted during the current year using the Lattice valuation approach was determined as 180 pence per option.
The significant inputs into the model were weighted average share and exercise price of 539 pence at the grant date, volatility range of 32% to 50%, dividend yield of 0.57%, an expected option life of seven years, annual risk-free interest rate of 2.83% and suboptimal exercise multiple of 1.5x.
Cash-settled Restricted Share Units are granted to executive directors and to selected employees.
Further disclosures over these plans are not provided as the related charge and liabilities are not material to the Group.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Trade payables 23,133 17,105 Accrued expenses 72,889 96,120 Payroll-related payables 10,405 6,116 Contract retentions 1,503 2,488 Royalty payable 8,482 9,023 Income tax payable 309 18 Trade payables to related parties Note 32 3,240 17,322 Total 119,961 148,192 Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Terms and conditions of the above payables liabilities: Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30-day of statement terms.
Accruals and other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of 3060 days.
com 138 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 24.
PROVISIONS Rehabilitation1 Other2 Total Stock options in thousands of United States Dollars 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Stock options are granted to Executive Directors and to selected employees.
The exercise price of the granted options is determined by the At 1 January 72,164 55,095 11,400 6,800 83,564 61,896 Compensation committee before the grant of an option provided that this price cannot be less than the average of the middle-market quotation Additions 27,948 15,900 67 4,600 28,015 20,500 of such shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the three dealing days immediately preceding the date of Unwinding of discount 1,365 1,169 1,365 1,169 grant.
The At 31 December 101,477 72,164 11,467 11,400 112,944 83,565 vesting period of the options is four years, with an exercise period of three years.
Current portion 4,000 4,000 Movements in the number of options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are reflected in pence as follows: Non-current portion 101,477 72,164 7,467 11,400 108,944 83,565 Average exercise Average exercise 1 Rehabilitation provisions relate to the decommissioning costs expected to be incurred for the operating mines.
This expenditure arises at different times over the life of mine for the price in pence price in pence different mine sites and is expected to be utilised in terms of cash outflows between years 2014 and 2034 and beyond, varying from mine site to mine site.
per share Options per share Options 2 Other provisions relate to provisions for legal and tax-related liabilities where the outcome is not yet certain but it is expected that it will lead to a probable outflow of economic For the year ended 31 December 2010 2010 2009 2009 benefits in future.
FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Forfeited 568 105,000 a Financial assets At 31 December 536 1,211,459 Carrying value Fair value in thousands of United States Dollars 2010 2009 2010 2009 The weighted average fair value of the options granted during the current year using the Lattice valuation approach was determined as 180 pence per option.
The significant inputs into the model were weighted average share and exercise price of 539 pence at the grant date, volatility Cash and cash equivalents 401,012 69,726 401,012 69,726 range of 32% to 50%, dividend yield of 0.57%, an expected option life of seven years, annual risk-free interest rate of 2.83% and suboptimal Accounts receivable 59,214 61,598 59,214 61,598 exercise multiple of 1.5x.
1 Total other assets 174,886 119,597 174,886 119,597 Total financial assets 635,112 250,921 635,112 250,921 Cash-settled Restricted Share Units are granted to executive directors and to selected employees.
Further disclosures over these plans are not Less: Current financial assets provided as the related charge and liabilities are not material to the Group.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Accounts receivable 59,214 61,598 59,214 61,598 As at As at Other current assets Note 16 70,428 58,311 70,428 58,311 31 December 31 December Total other non-current financial assets Note 21 104,458 61,286 104,458 61,286 in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Trade payables 23,133 17,105 1 Assets relating to restrictive share unit liabilities of US$7.5 million have been reclassified and offset against the liability.
Accrued expenses 72,889 96,120 Payroll-related payables 10,405 6,116 The fair value of financial assets, excluding other assets, equal their carrying amount as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Included in other assets are indirect tax receivables from the Tanzanian Revenue Authority, which have been discounted to their present value, refer to Note 16 and Contract retentions 1,503 2,488 Note 21.
Royalty payable 8,482 9,023 Income tax payable 309 18 b Financial liabilities Trade payables to related parties Note 32 3,240 17,322 Carrying value Fair value Total 119,961 148,192 in thousands of United States Dollars 2010 2009 2010 2009 Derivative financial instruments 3,658 3,658 Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Trade Related party debt 1,383,415 1,383,415 payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less.
Trade 2 payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Other liabilities 7,483 4,748 7,483 4,748 Total 11,141 1,388,163 11,141 1,388,163 Terms and conditions of the above payables liabilities: Less: Current financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 1,904 1,904 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30-day of statement terms.
3 Less: Current portion of related party debt 1,383,415 1,383,415 Accruals and other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of 3060 days.
Total non-current portion of net borrowings 9,237 4,748 9,237 4,748 2 Assets relating to restrictive share unit liabilities of US$7.5 million have been reclassified and offset against the liability.
3 Related party debt was repaid during the current financial year by cash amounting to US$575 million and converting US$1,039 million to contributed surplus.
The fair value of the current portion of borrowings held in 2009, excluding other liabilities, was equal to their carrying amount as they were repayable on demand.
Other liabilities relate to equity settled stock option plans and their valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are valued based upon inputs that are observable for the financial instruments which includes quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active or either directly or indirectly based on observable markets data.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 139 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 27.
FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES continued b Financial liabilities continued Revolving credit facility On 24 November 2010, the Group concluded negotiations with a syndicate of commercial banks, led by Citibank, for the provision of a revolving credit facility in a maximum aggregate amount of US$150 million.
The facility has been provided to service the general corporate needs of the Group and to fund potential acquisitions.
All provisions contained in the credit facility documentation have been negotiated on normal commercial and customary terms for such finance arrangements.
The term of the facility is 24 months and when drawn the spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points.
At 31 December 2010, none of the funds were drawn under the facility while a commitment fee of 1.4% was payable.
The shares of all significant subsidiaries have been pledged as security for the loan.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS During 2010 the Group entered into zero cost collars to manage copper price fluctuations in the price of copper.
The Group does not use such derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes.
These transactions are economic hedges, and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment for the positions.
Changes in the fair value of these copper options are recorded as a component of other income expense in the income statement.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had 21,826 thousand pounds of collar contracts outstanding containing purchased put and call options with an average strike price of US$3.25 per pound and US$4.77 per pound respectively.
The Group did not have any derivative financial instruments in 2009.
Unrealised losses Total balance resulting from sheet impact of marked-to-market marked-to-market in thousands of United States dollars Realised losses adjustments Total net loss adjustments Commodity derivatives Copper collar 3,658 3,658 3,658 Total 3,658 3,658 3,658 For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Analysed between: Current liabilities 1,904 Non-current liabilities 1,754 Total 3,658 29.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group has exposure to the following risks through its commercial and financial operations: a market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks: b credit risk: and c liquidity risk.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks and the Groups objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk.
Further quantitave disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to maintain a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Board of Directors has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit committee.
com 140 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 27.
FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES continued a Market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks b Financial liabilities continued Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as commodity prices, foreign exchange rates or interest rates will affect the Groups income or the value of its financial instruments.
Revolving credit facility Gold price On 24 November 2010, the Group concluded negotiations with a syndicate of commercial banks, led by Citibank, for the provision of a revolving credit facility in a maximum aggregate amount of US$150 million.
The facility has been provided to service the general corporate needs of the The market price of gold is one of the most significant factors in determining the profitability of the Groups operations.
The price of gold is Group and to fund potential acquisitions.
All provisions contained in the credit facility documentation have been negotiated on normal commercial subject to volatile price movements over short periods of time, especially in the current market environment, and is affected by numerous and customary terms for such finance arrangements.
The term of the facility is 24 months and when drawn the spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis industry and macro-economic factors that are beyond the Groups control.
In 2010 the price ranged from US$1,058 to US$1,431 per ounce, points.
The shares of all with an average market price of US$1,225 per ounce 2009: US$972 per ounce.
The Groups policy is to sell gold at prevailing market prices.
significant subsidiaries have been pledged as security for the loan.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS During 2010 the Group entered into zero cost collars to manage copper price fluctuations see Note 28 for additional details.
In 2010 the price During 2010 the Group entered into zero cost collars to manage copper price fluctuations in the price of copper.
The Group does not use such ranged from US$2.76 to US$4.44 per pound, with an average market price of US$3.42 per pound 2009: US$3.22 per pound.
derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes.
Oil price These transactions are economic hedges, and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment for the positions.
Changes in the fair value of these Diesel fuel is refined from crude oil and is therefore subject to the same price volatility affecting crude oil prices.
During 2010, oil prices traded copper options are recorded as a component of other income expense in the income statement.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had 21,826 between US$63 and US$92 per barrel with an average market price of US$80 per barrel.
The Group currently has no oil price hedging in place thousand pounds of collar contracts outstanding containing purchased put and call options with an average strike price of US$3.25 per pound but may consider opportunities to hedge against oil price exposure in the future.
and US$4.77 per pound respectively.
The table below summarises the impact of changes in the market price on gold.
The impact is expressed in terms of the resulting change in the Unrealised losses Total balance resulting from sheet impact of Groups profit after tax for the year or, where applicable, the change in equity.
The sensitivities are based on the assumption that the market marked-to-market marked-to-market price changes by 10% with all other variables held constant.
The impact of a similar change in copper, silver and diesel prices is not material to in thousands of United States dollars Realised losses adjustments Total net loss adjustments the Groups profit after tax.
Commodity derivatives Copper collar 3,658 3,658 3,658 Effect on Effect on profit after tax profit after tax Total 3,658 3,658 3,658 for the year ended for the year ended Gain associated with 10% increase from year end price 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 For the year ended For the year ended Gold 62,556 46,235 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Foreign currency risk Analysed between: The Groups transactions are denominated in a number of different currencies primarily US dollars, Shillings, and Rands.
The Group has Current liabilities 1,904 liabilities that are primarily denominated in US dollars.
The US dollar is the Companys and its subsidiaries functional currency, as well as the Non-current liabilities 1,754 Groups presentation currency.
Therefore, transactions in currencies other than the US dollar give rise to foreign currency translation risk.
The Total 3,658 Groups primary exposure to this risk arises from direct mine operating costs and corporate administration costs that are transacted in Shillings and Rands, respectively.
Consequently, fluctuations in the US dollar: Shilling Rand exchange rates increase the volatility of cost of sales, 29.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT corporate administration costs and overall net earnings, which are reported in US dollars.
The vast majority of all direct mining costs and The Group has exposure to the following risks through its commercial and financial operations: corporate administration costs are denominated and settled in US dollars.
Consequently, the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations on the Groups reported direct mining and corporate administration costs is not significant.
a market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks: The exchange rates at the end of each financial year are detailed in Note 2 h. b credit risk: and Under normal market conditions, the Group does not generally believe that active currency hedging of transactions would provide long-term c liquidity risk.
Historically, the relationship between the gold price and the value of the Shilling and Rand provide a natural hedge against fluctuations in the exchange rate of these currencies against the US dollar.
Generally, a strengthening of the Shilling Rand, which would This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks and the Groups objectives, policies and processes for cause an increase in reported US dollar operating costs, corresponds with an increase in the US dollar gold price, which results in an increase in assessing and managing risk.
This natural protection significantly reduces the need for using derivatives or other forms of synthetic hedging.
However, the Group reviews its exposure on a regular basis and reserves the right to enter into foreign currency hedges should the The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
Any such currency protection measures deemed appropriate by management are subject to approval by the Board.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and The Group does have significant financial assets denominated in a currency other than US dollar.
These financial assets are as follow: controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to maintain As at As at a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 The Board of Directors has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies Indirect tax receivables 121,222 84,731 and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit committee Total 121,222 84,731 is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit committee.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 141 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 29.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued a Market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks continued The following sensitivity analyses give the estimated effect of a reasonably possible change in the full year closing US dollar exchange rate on the value of the financial assets.
Effect on Effect on profit after tax profit after tax for the year ended for the year ended Increase decrease associated with 10% change of the US dollar as at 31 December 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Increase decrease associated with 10% change of the US dollar US dollar strengthens by 10% to the Tanzanian Shilling Increase in total indirect tax receivables 13,469 9,330 US dollar weakens by 10% to the Tanzanian Shilling Decrease in total indirect tax receivables 11,020 7,634 Interest rate risk Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument or cash flows associated with the instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk on its cash and cash equivalents.
At present, available funds are held with financial institutions at variable rates and primarily denominated in US dollars, interest income is not materially affected by changes in short-term interest rates.
The amount of interest expense recorded in the Groups consolidated income statement is not materially impacted by changes in short-term interest rates, due to the Groups low levels of interest-bearing debt at present.
The revolving credit facilitys spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points.
Group debt levels are impacted by the amount of operating cash flow generated by its operating mines, as well as capital expenditure requirements related to existing operations and development projects.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a third party might fail to fulfil its performance obligations under the terms of a financial instrument.
For cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables, credit risk represents the carrying amount on the balance sheet, net of any overdraft positions.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, and deposits with banks, as well as trade and other receivables.
The Groups financial assets are with counterparties whom the Group considers have an appropriate credit rating.
Location of credit risk is determined by physical location of the bank branch, customer or counterparty.
The maximum allowable term of maturity for any individual security is 12 months.
Investment counterparties must have a credit rating of at least Baa2 or better by Moodys Investor Services or BBB by Standard and Poors.
No more than 25% of the aggregate market value of the investment portfolio is maintained in any one country, with the exception of the United States of America, United Kingdom and Barbados, or in any one industry group.
Investments are held mainly in United States dollars and cash and cash equivalents in other foreign currencies are maintained for operational requirements.
With respect to other receivables, the most significant debtor is the Tanzanian Revenue Authority.
Throughout 2010, ABG has been actively involved in discussions with the Tanzanian government and the Tanzanian Revenue Authority to resolve the status of fuel excise levies and VAT refunds for its operations.
These issues have been outstanding for some time and were further complicated by amendments made to certain tax laws which were passed in 2009.
The amendments conflicted with certain provisions contained in the Groups existing Mineral Development Agreements MDAs which guarantee the fiscal stability of its operations.
The government has adopted legislation to reverse the amendments, which should allow for the fiscal and tax terms of our MDAs to be honoured.
As at 31 December 2010, the discounted outstanding amounts due to the Group were approximately US$121 million.
The Group is in discussions with the authorities to agree terms for the repayment of these amounts, which is likely to be by way of tax offsets.
Further detail is included in Notes 16, 21 and 31 b.
Group policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of a counterpartys failure to honour its obligations.
Individual exposures are monitored with trade customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each counterparty.
Maximum exposure to credit risk at each reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets in Note 27.
The Group does not hold collateral as security for any trade receivables.
The Group does not grade the credit quality of receivables.
com 142 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 29.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued c Liquidity risk a Market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks continued Liquidity risk is the risk of loss from not having access to sufficient funds to meet both expected and unexpected cash demands.
The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by ensuring that its operating and strategic liquidity levels are well above minimum internal requirements.
The following sensitivity analyses give the estimated effect of a reasonably possible change in the full year closing US dollar exchange rate on the Prudent liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash balances, and the availability of funding from an adequate amount of value of the financial assets.
At the end of both 2010 and 2009 the Group was in a positive net cash position, as disclosed in Note 17.
Details of the undrawn revolving credit facility are given in Note 27.
Effect on Effect on profit after tax profit after tax for the year ended for the year ended In the ordinary course of business, the Group receives cash proceeds from its operations and is required to fund working capital and capital Increase decrease associated with 10% change of the US dollar as at 31 December 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 expenditure requirements.
The cash is managed to ensure surplus funds are invested to maximise returns while ensuring that capital is safeguarded to the maximum extent possible by investing only with financial institutions with a strong credit rating.
Insignificant uncommitted Increase decrease associated with 10% change of the US dollar overdraft facilities are maintained with several banking counterparties to meet the Groups normal funding requirements.
The Groups primary US dollar strengthens by 10% to the Tanzanian Shilling source of liquidity is operating cash flow, and over the past two years the Group has generated an average of about US$269.6 million per year.
Increase in total indirect tax receivables 13,469 9,330 The principal risk factor affecting operating cash flow is market gold prices.
US dollar weakens by 10% to the Tanzanian Shilling Decrease in total indirect tax receivables 11,020 7,634 The principal uses of liquidity are sustaining capital expenditures at existing operating mines, construction activities at development projects, and interest payments.
Sustaining capital expenditures have averaged about US$114.5 million per year over the past two years.
Interest rate risk The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Groups significant financial assets into relevant maturity groupings based on the Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument or cash flows associated with the instruments will fluctuate due to remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual changes in market interest rates.
Borrowings issued at fixed undiscounted cash flows, these balances may not agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
For the year ended 31 December 2010 At present, available funds are held with financial institutions at variable rates and primarily denominated in US dollars, interest income is not Less than 1 to 3 3 to 5 Over 5 in thousands of United States dollars 1 year years years years Total materially affected by changes in short-term interest rates.
The amount of interest expense recorded in the Groups consolidated income Cash and cash equivalents 401,012 401,012 statement is not materially impacted by changes in short-term interest rates, due to the Groups low levels of interest-bearing debt at present.
Accounts receivable 59,214 59,214 The revolving credit facilitys spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points.
Other receivables 70,428 104,458 174,886 Total 530,654 104,458 635,112 b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a third party might fail to fulfil its performance obligations under the terms of a financial instrument.
For cash and For the year ended 31 December 2009 cash equivalents and trade and other receivables, credit risk represents the carrying amount on the balance sheet, net of any overdraft positions.
Less than 1 to 3 3 to 5 Over 5 in thousands of United States dollars 1 year years years years Total Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, and deposits with banks, as well as trade and other receivables.
The Groups financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 69,726 69,726 are with counterparties whom the Group considers have an appropriate credit rating.
Location of credit risk is determined by physical location Accounts receivable 61,598 61,598 of the bank branch, customer or counterparty.
Investment 2 Other receivables 58,311 61,286 119,597 counterparties must have a credit rating of at least Baa2 or better by Moodys Investor Services or BBB by Standard and Poors.
No more than Total 189,635 61,286 250,921 25% of the aggregate market value of the investment portfolio is maintained in any one country, with the exception of the United States of America, United Kingdom and Barbados, or in any one industry group.
Investments are held mainly in United States dollars and cash and cash The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Groups significant financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the equivalents in other foreign currencies are maintained for operational requirements.
remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances may not agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
Throughout 2010, ABG has been actively involved in discussions with the Tanzanian government and the Tanzanian Revenue Authority to resolve the status of fuel excise levies and For the year ended 31 December 2010 Less than 1 to 3 3 to 5 Over 5 VAT refunds for its operations.
These issues have been outstanding for some time and were further complicated by amendments made to in thousands of United States dollars 1 year years years years Total certain tax laws which were passed in 2009.
The amendments conflicted with certain provisions contained in the Groups existing Mineral Derivative liabilities 1,904 1,754 3,658 Development Agreements MDAs which guarantee the fiscal stability of its operations.
The government has adopted legislation to reverse Other liabilities 3,792 4,011 3,472 11,275 the amendments, which should allow for the fiscal and tax terms of our MDAs to be honoured.
As at 31 December 2010, the discounted 1 Trade and other payables 119,652 119,652 outstanding amounts due to the Group were approximately US$121 million.
The Group is in discussions with the authorities to agree terms Total 125,348 5,765 3,472 134,585 for the repayment of these amounts, which is likely to be by way of tax offsets.
Individual exposures are For the year ended 31 December 2009 Less than 1 to 3 3 to 5 Over 5 monitored with trade customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The Groups in thousands of United States dollars 1 year years years years Total exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each counterparty.
The Groups financial assets are with Related party debt 1,383,415 1,383,415 counterparties whom the Group considers have an appropriate credit rating.
2 Other liabilities 3,364 1,384 4,748 Maximum exposure to credit risk at each reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets in Note 27.
The Group does not Trade and other payables 148,192 148,192 hold collateral as security for any trade receivables.
Total 1,534,971 1,384 1,536,355 1 Trade and other payables exclude statutory liabilities in the form of income tax payable.
2 Assets relating to restrictive share unit liabilities of US$7.5 million have been reclassified and offset against the liability.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 143 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 29.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued c Liquidity risk continued Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash flow from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from settlement of current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
Capital risk management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio to support its business and provides financial flexibility in order to maximise shareholder value.
In order to ensure a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and is approved by the Senior leadership team before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
At 31 December, the gearing ratio was as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Total borrowings, including related party debt 1,531,607 Less: cash and cash equivalents 401,012 69,726 Net surplus debt 401,012 1,461,881 Total equity 2,543,085 657,415 Total capital 2,142,073 2,119,296 3 Gearing ratio N A 2.22% 3 The gearing ratio is calculated by dividing the net surplus debt by total equity.
OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the period 556 Total 556 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 in thousands of United States dollars Within one year 984 In the second to fifth years inclusive 2,459 After five years 1,718 Total 5,161 Operating lease payments relate mainly to rental of office space by regional business units of the Group.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Group is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties.
As at 31 December 2010, the Group has the following commitments and or contingencies: a Legal contingencies As at 31 December 2010, the Group was a defendant in approximately 240 lawsuits.
The plaintiffs are claiming damages and interest thereon for the loss caused by the Group due to one or more of the following: unlawful eviction, termination of services, wrongful termination of contracts of service, non-payment for services, defamation, negligence by act or omission in failing to provide a safe working environment, unpaid overtime and public holidays compensation.
The total amounts claimed from lawsuits in which specific monetary damages are sought amounted to US$44 million.
The Groups Legal Counsel is defending the Groups current position, and the outcome of the lawsuits cannot presently be determined.
However, in the opinion of the Directors and Groups Legal Counsel, no material liabilities are expected to materialise from these lawsuits.
Consequently no provision has been set aside against the claims in the books of account.
com 144 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 29.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Included in the total amounts claimed of US$44 million is a lawsuit instituted against North Mara Gold Mine Ltd and Genkuru Village in which the plaintiffs claim US$29 million.
The case is based on a claim resulting from alleged illegal action by East Africa Gold Mine Ltd North Maras c Liquidity risk continued predecessors entering the area where the plaintiffs allege they had claim of right.
The area in question was given by Genuru Village to the mine Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash flow from operations to manage liquidity risks arising to conduct mining activities and a licence to that effect was issued.
Compensation to occupiers of land was handed over to the government for from settlement of current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
Subsequent to year end this claim was struck out by the Court of Appeal of Tanzania.
Capital risk management b Tax-related contingencies The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio to support i.
On 26 October 2009, the TRA issued a demand notice against the Group for an amount relating to withholding tax on technical services its business and provides financial flexibility in order to maximise shareholder value.
In order to ensure a strong balance sheet and low gearing provided to Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd.
The claim amounts to US$5.4 million.
Management is of the opinion that the Group complied ratio, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and is approved by the Senior leadership team before with all of the withholding tax requirements, and that there will be no amount payable.
Therefore no provision has been raised.
submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
The TRA has issued a number of tax assessments to the Group relating to past taxation years from 2002 onwards.
The Group believes At 31 December, the gearing ratio was as follows: that these assessments are incorrect and has filed objections to each of them.
The Group is attempting to resolve these matters by means of discussions with the TRA.
Management is of the opinion that this will not result in any material liabilities to the Group.
As at As at 31 December 31 December c Exploration and development agreement in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Total borrowings, including related party debt 1,531,607 Pursuant to an agreement with the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania, entered into in 1996, the Group was issued a mining licence Less: cash and cash equivalents 401,012 69,726 for the Nyabigena, Nyabirama and Gokona concessions in the Nyamongo region, North Mara in Tanzania.
The agreement requires the Group to pay to the Government of Tanzania annual rents of US$1,500 per annum per square kilometer for as long as the Group holds the mining Net surplus debt 401,012 1,461,881 licence.
The total commitment for 2010 based on mineral licences held as at 31 December 2009 is US$0.17 million.
Total equity 2,543,085 657,415 Total capital 2,142,073 2,119,296 d Purchase commitments 3 Gearing ratio N A 2.22% At 31 December 2010, the Group had purchase obligations for supplies and consumables of approximately US$64 million 2009: US$56 million.
3 The gearing ratio is calculated by dividing the net surplus debt by total equity.
OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS In addition to entering into various operational commitments in the normal course of business, the Group entered into the following For the year ended For the year ended commitments for construction activities for capital projects.
31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 As at As at Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the period 556 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Total 556 Contracted capital expenditure 29,323 29,460 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating Total 29,323 29,460 leases, which fall due as follows: f Insurance As at As at 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Insurance coverage is purchased for certain insurable losses, subject to varying deductibles, at the Groups mineral properties including losses in thousands of United States dollars such as property damage and business interruption.
The Group records losses relating to insurable events as they occur.
Proceeds receivable Within one year 984 from insurance coverage are recorded at such time as receipt is virtually certain and the amount receivable is fixed or determinable.
The In the second to fifth years inclusive 2,459 following table sets out the effect of the insurance claims: After five years 1,718 Total 5,161 For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Operating lease payments relate mainly to rental of office space by regional business units of the Group.
Cost of sales 2,100 Other income 4,535 31.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Total 6,635 The Group is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 145 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 32.
RELATED PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS The Group had the following related party balances and transactions during the years ended 31 December 2010, and 31 December 2009.
Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by Barrick Gold Corporation, which is the ultimate controlling party of the Group.
Transactions with related parties are as follows: a Transactions For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 BIBC gold sale dor 185,233 540,617 Provision of goods and services 2,443 497 Purchase of goods and services 8,864 9,132 Special dividend payment 258,680 Interim dividend payments 4,852 Total 84,720 531,982 Provision and purchase of goods and services to from related parties are on normal commercial terms and conditions.
Provision of services relates to cost incurred by the Group and recharged to related parties.
Purchase of goods and services relates to cost incurred by related parties and recharged to the Group.
Services purchased relate mainly to insurance and software licences.
Goods purchased relate mainly to consumables and capital equipment.
b Balances due from related parties As at As at 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 BIBC gold sales receivable 26,218 Barrick Platinum Pty Ltd 1,696 5,474 Pangea Fenn Gibb 4,999 Other 435 827 Total 2,131 37,518 Receivables from Barrick Platinum are for services rendered.
The gold receivable related to sales of dor to BIBC, and were payable within one week after sale to BIBC.
The receivables are unsecured in nature and bear no interest.
There are no provisions held against receivables from Barrick.
c Balances due to related parties As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 BIBC 54 Barrick Gold Corporation 2,608 12,465 Barrick Gold Australia Ltd 317 Other 261 4,857 Total 3,240 17,322 The payables to Barrick arise mainly from purchase transactions noted above and are due 30 days after the date of purchase.
The payables are unsecured and bear no interest.
For the year ending 31 December 2009, corporate overheads including, but not limited to, technical service costs, have not been allocated to the Group.
Following the IPO these charges were incurred by the Group.
d Balances due to related parties funding in nature As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Barrick International Bank Incorporation BIBC 1,383,415 Total 1,383,415 Related party borrowings related to amounts due to BIBC and PDG bank which were repaid during the current financial year in the form of cash of US$575 million and conversion to contributed surplus of US$1,039 million.
These amounts were interest-free and had no fixed repayment terms.
com 146 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued 32.
RELATED PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS e Remuneration of key management personnel The Group had the following related party balances and transactions during the years ended 31 December 2010, and 31 December 2009.
Key management personnel include the members of the Board of Directors and the Senior leadership team who receive remuneration.
As the Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by Barrick Gold Corporation, which is the ultimate controlling party of the Group.
Group was only formed during February 2010, the Board of Directors was not in place for the entire period, and no remuneration was paid to key personnel by the Group during the 2009 financial year.
Compensation for key management personnel including Directors was as follows: Transactions with related parties are as follows: For the year ended 31 December a Transactions in thousands of United States dollars 2010 For the year ended For the year ended Salaries and short-term employee benefits 6,001 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 Post-employment benefits 486 BIBC gold sale dor 185,233 540,617 Share-based payments 728 Provision of goods and services 2,443 497 Total 7,215 Purchase of goods and services 8,864 9,132 Special dividend payment 258,680 33.
MINERAL LICENCES Interim dividend payments 4,852 The Group holds exploration concessions in the United Republic of Tanzania.
These concessions are held in the form of either reconnaissance Total 84,720 531,982 licences or prospecting licences issued by the Ministry of Energy and Minerals and are held either directly by the Group or indirectly in exploration joint venture agreements with third parties.
The concessions held by the Group as at 31 December 2010 are summarised in the Provision and purchase of goods and services to from related parties are on normal commercial terms and conditions.
Provision of services relates to following table.
cost incurred by the Group and recharged to related parties.
Number of Approximate Mineral licence concessions concessions Km2 b Balances due from related parties Held by North Mara Gold Mine Limited 23 129.08 As at As at Held by Pangea Minerals Limited 76 1,920.11 31 December 31 December Held by Barrick Africa Exploration Limited 95 1,231.50 2010 2009 Held by Vulcan Resources Tanzania 12 207.58 BIBC gold sales receivable 26,218 Held by Sub-Sahara Resources TZ Limited 13 121.16 Barrick Platinum Pty Ltd 1,696 5,474 Held by Nyanzaga Exploration Limited 1 8.29 Pangea Fenn Gibb 4,999 1 Prospecting licences indirectly held 83 994.02 Other 435 827 Total 303 4,611.74 Total 2,131 37,518 1 Via exploration joint venture with third parties Receivables from Barrick Platinum are for services rendered.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS c Balances due to related parties Dividend As at As at A dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010 of US3.7 cents per share, amounting to a final dividend of US5.3 cents per share for 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2009 2010, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 21 April 2011.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
BIBC 54 Barrick Gold Corporation 2,608 12,465 Barrick Gold Australia Ltd 317 Other 261 4,857 Total 3,240 17,322 The payables to Barrick arise mainly from purchase transactions noted above and are due 30 days after the date of purchase.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 147 Independent auditors report to the members of African Barrick Gold plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies African Barrick Gold plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 Act 2006 which comprise the Parent Company Income Statement, In our opinion: Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income, Parent Company Balance Sheet, Parent Company Statement of Changes in the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly Equity, Parent Company Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their the information given in the Directors report for the financial year preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Matters on which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters set out on page 86, the Directors are responsible for the where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, preparation of the parent company financial statements and for in our opinion: being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those received from branches not visited by us: or standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and the accounting records and returns: or only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume are not made: or responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to we have not received all the information and explanations we whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save require for our audit.
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have reported separately on the group financial statements of An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and African Barrick Gold plc for the year ended 31 December 2010. disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Jason Burkitt Senior Statutory Auditor Opinion on financial statements for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors In our opinion the parent company financial statements: London 10 March 2011 give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its loss and cash flows for the year Notes: then ended: a The maintenance and integrity of the African Barrick Gold plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no adopted by the European Union: and responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
