Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Parent Company Cash Flow Statement Notes to the Company financial statements For the 1.
CORPORATE INFORMATION period since incorporation African Barrick Gold plc the Company was incorporated on 12 January 2010 and re-registered as a public limited company on 12 March ended 31 December 2010 under the Companies Act 2006.
It is registered in England and Wales with registered number 7123187. in thousands of United States dollars Notes 2010 On 24 March 2010 the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA and to trading Cash flows from operating activities on the main market of the London Stock Exchange, hereafter referred to as the Initial Public Offering IPO.
The address of its registered Net loss for the period 7,844 office is 6 St Jamess Place, London SW1A 1NP, United Kingdom.
Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation 41 Barrick Gold Corporation BGC currently owns approximately 73.9% of the shares of the Company and is the ultimate controlling party Finance items 338 of the Group.
Working capital adjustments 6 957 In preparation for the IPO, BGC conducted a reorganisation, which was completed on 22 February 2010, whereby the companies comprising Other 6 694 the African Regional Business Unit of BGC were reorganised under the Company the Pre-IPO Reorganisation.
As such, prior to Cash used by operations before interest and tax 6,490 22 February 2010, the Company did not control all of the entities it acquired pursuant to the Pre-IPO Reorganisation.
Finance income 338 Net cash used by operating activities 6,152 The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 were approved for issue by the Board of Directors of the Company on 10 March 2011.
Cash flows from investing activities The primary activity of the Company is as holding company for the African Barrick Gold Group of companies.
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 466 Net cash used in investing activities 466 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
Cash flows from financing activities Related party debt funding 772,680 a Basis of preparation Share issuance IPO net of transaction costs 865,366 The Companys financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Increase in contributed surplus 361,031 European Union IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Special dividend 252,981 Interim dividend 6,562 The financial statements of the Company have been prepared on a historical cost basis.
As the Company was only incorporated on 12 January Net cash provided by financing activities 194,174 2010, no comparative information exists.
The Company's forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Company Net increase in cash and equivalents 187,556 should be able to operate within the level of its current financing.
Net foreign exchange difference 65 Cash and cash equivalents at 12 January After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Company therefore adopts the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 187,491 The accompanying notes on pages 153 to 165 are an integral part of these financial statements.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars US$ and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand US$000 except when otherwise indicated.
The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements are set out below.
b New and amended standards adopted by the Company The following new standards and amendments to standards are applicable and were adopted by the Company for the first time for the financial year beginning 12 January 2010.
IAS 36 amendment, Impairment of assets, effective 1 January 2010.
The amendment clarifies that the largest cash-generating unit or group of units to which goodwill should be allocated for the purposes of impairment testing is an operating segment, as defined by paragraph 5 of IFRS 8, Operating segments that is, before the aggregation of segments with similar economic characteristics.
IAS 36 amendment has had no impact on the current period as no impairment was identified when testing goodwill impairment at an operating segment level.
IFRS 2 amendments, Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions, effective 1 January 2010.
In addition to incorporating IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2, and IFRIC 11, IFRS 2, Group and treasury share transactions, the amendments expand on the guidance in IFRIC 11 to address the classification of Group arrangements that were not covered by that interpretation.
The application of the standard did not have a material effect on the Group.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 153 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued c New and amended standards, and interpretations mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 12 January 2010 but not currently relevant to the Company although they may affect the accounting for future transactions and events The following standards and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Companys accounting periods beginning on or after 12 January 2010 or later periods, but are currently not relevant to the Company.
IFRIC 17, Distribution of non-cash assets to owners effective on or after 1 July 2009.
The interpretation was published in November 2008.
This interpretation provides guidance on accounting for arrangements whereby an entity distributes non-cash assets to shareholders either as a distribution of reserves or as dividends.
IFRS 5 has also been amended to require that assets are classified as held for distribution only when they are amended to require that assets are classified as held for distribution only when they are available for distribution in their present condition and the distribution is highly probable.
IFRIC 18, Transfers of assets from customers, effective for transfer of assets received on or after 1 July 2009.
This interpretation clarifies the requirements of IFRSs for agreements in which an entity receives from a customer an item of property, plant and equipment that the entity must then use either to connect the customer to a network or to provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services such as a supply of electricity, gas or water.
In some cases, the entity receives cash from a customer that must be used only to acquire or construct the item of property, plant, and equipment in order to connect the customer to a network or provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services or to do both.
IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives and IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, effective 1 July 2009.
This amendment to IFRIC 9 requires an entity to assess whether an embedded derivative should be separated from a host contract when the entity reclassifies a hybrid financial asset out of the fair value through profit or loss category.
This assessment is to be made based on circumstances that existed on the later of the date the entity first became a party to the contract and the date of any contract amendments that significantly change the cash flows of the contract.
If the entity is unable to make this assessment, the hybrid instrument must remain classified as at fair value through profit or loss in its entirety.
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, effective 1 July 2009.
This amendment states that, in a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, qualifying hedging instruments may be held by any entity or entities within the Group, including the foreign operation itself, as long as the designation, documentation and effectiveness requirements of IAS 39 that relate to a net investment hedge are satisfied.
In particular, the Company should clearly document its hedging strategy because of the possibility of different designations at different levels of the Company.
IAS 38 amendment, Intangible assets, effective 1 January 2010.
The amendment clarifies guidance in measuring the fair value of an intangible asset acquired in a business combination and permits the grouping of intangible assets as a single asset if each asset has a similar useful economic life.
IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements.
The amendment clarifies that the potential settlement of a liability by the issue of equity is not relevant to its classification as current or non-current.
By amending the definition of current liability, the amendment permits a liability to be classified as non-current provided that the entity has an unconditional right to defer settlement by transfer of cash or other assets for at least 12 months after the accounting period notwithstanding the fact that the entity could be required by the counterparty to settle in shares at any time.
IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations, and consequential amendments to IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and separate financial statements, IAS 28 Investments in associates, and IAS 31 Interest in joint ventures, are effective prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations but with some significant changes compared with IFRS 3.
For example, all payments to purchase a business are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classified as debt subsequently re-measured through the income statement.
There is a choice on an acquisition-by acquisition basis to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
All acquisition-related costs are expensed.
com 154 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Company financial statements continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued IAS 27 revised requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interest to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control and these transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses.
The standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost.
c New and amended standards, and interpretations mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning Any remaining interest in the entity is re-measured to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
12 January 2010 but not currently relevant to the Company although they may affect the accounting for future transactions and events IFRS 5 amendment, Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations.
The amendment clarifies that IFRS 5 specifies the disclosures required in respect of non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale or discontinued operations.
It also clarifies The following standards and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Companys accounting periods beginning on or after 12 January 2010 or later periods, but are currently not relevant to the Company.
that the general requirements of IAS 1 still apply, in particular paragraph 15 to achieve a fair presentation and paragraph 125 sources of estimation uncertainty of IAS 1.
This interpretation provides guidance on accounting for arrangements whereby an entity distributes non-cash assets to shareholders either as d New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 12 January a distribution of reserves or as dividends.
IFRS 5 has also been amended to require that assets are classified as held for distribution only when 2010 and not early adopted they are amended to require that assets are classified as held for distribution only when they are available for distribution in their present The Companys assessment of the impact of these new standards and interpretations is set out below.
condition and the distribution is highly probable.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments, issued in November 2009.
This standard is the first step in the process to replace IAS 39, Financial IFRIC 18, Transfers of assets from customers, effective for transfer of assets received on or after 1 July 2009.
This interpretation clarifies the instruments: recognition and measurement.
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets.
The requirements of IFRSs for agreements in which an entity receives from a customer an item of property, plant and equipment that the entity standard is not applicable until 1 January 2013 but is available for early adoption.
However, the standard has not yet been endorsed by the must then use either to connect the customer to a network or to provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services EU.
The Company is yet to assess IFRS 9s full impact, however, initial indications are that the adoption of IFRS 9 will not have a significant such as a supply of electricity, gas or water.
In some cases, the entity receives cash from a customer that must be used only to acquire or impact on the Companys operating results or financial position.
construct the item of property, plant, and equipment in order to connect the customer to a network or provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services or to do both.
IAS 24 revised, Related party disclosures, issued in November 2009.
It supersedes IAS 24, Related party disclosures, issued in 2003.
IAS 24 revised is mandatory for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
Earlier application, in whole or in part, is permitted.
However, the IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives and IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, effective 1 July 2009. standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The revised standard clarifies and simplifies the definition of a related party and removes the This amendment to IFRIC 9 requires an entity to assess whether an embedded derivative should be separated from a host contract when the requirement for government-related entities to disclose details of all transactions with the government and other government-related entities.
entity reclassifies a hybrid financial asset out of the fair value through profit or loss category.
This assessment is to be made based on The Company will apply the revised standard from 1 January 2011.
It is not expected to have any impact on the Company or the parent circumstances that existed on the later of the date the entity first became a party to the contract and the date of any contract amendments entitys financial statements.
that significantly change the cash flows of the contract.
IAS 32 amendment, Classification of rights issues, issued in October 2009.
The amendment applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010.
The amendment addresses the accounting for rights issues that are denominated in a IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, effective 1 July 2009.
This amendment states that, in a hedge of a net currency other than the functional currency of the issuer.
Provided certain conditions are met, such rights issues are now classified as equity investment in a foreign operation, qualifying hedging instruments may be held by any entity or entities within the Group, including the regardless of the currency in which the exercise price is denominated.
Previously, these issues had to be accounted for as derivative liabilities.
foreign operation itself, as long as the designation, documentation and effectiveness requirements of IAS 39 that relate to a net investment The amendment applies retrospectively in accordance with IAS 8, Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors.
In particular, the Company should clearly document its hedging strategy because of the possibility of different Company has not issued any rights issues.
designations at different levels of the Company.
IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments, effective 1 July 2010.
The interpretation clarifies the accounting by an IAS 38 amendment, Intangible assets, effective 1 January 2010.
The amendment clarifies guidance in measuring the fair value of an entity when the terms of a financial liability are renegotiated and result in the entity issuing equity instruments to a creditor of the entity to intangible asset acquired in a business combination and permits the grouping of intangible assets as a single asset if each asset has a similar extinguish all or part of the financial liability debt for equity swap.
It requires a gain or loss to be recognised in profit or loss, which is useful economic life.
measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability and the fair value of the equity instruments issued.
If the fair value of the equity instruments issued cannot be reliably measured, the equity instruments should be measured to reflect the fair value of the IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements.
The amendment clarifies that the potential settlement of a liability by the issue financial liability extinguished.
The Company will apply the interpretation from 1 January 2011.
It is not expected to have any impact on the of equity is not relevant to its classification as current or non-current.
By amending the definition of current liability, the amendment permits Company or the parent entitys financial statements.
a liability to be classified as non-current provided that the entity has an unconditional right to defer settlement by transfer of cash or other assets for at least 12 months after the accounting period notwithstanding the fact that the entity could be required by the counterparty to IFRIC 14 amendment Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement.
The amendments correct an unintended consequence of IFRIC 14, settle in shares at any time.
IAS 19, The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
Without the amendments, entities are not permitted to recognise as an asset some voluntary prepayments for minimum funding contributions.
This was not intended when IFRIC 14 IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations, and consequential amendments to IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and separate financial was issued, and the amendments correct this.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning 1 January 2011.
Earlier application statements, IAS 28 Investments in associates, and IAS 31 Interest in joint ventures, are effective prospectively to business combinations is permitted.
The amendments should be applied retrospectively to the earliest comparative period presented.
It is not expected to have any for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009. impact on the Company or the parent entitys financial statements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 155 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued e Significant judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty Many of the amounts included in the parent company financial statements require management to make judgements and or estimates.
These judgements and estimates are continuously evaluated and are based on managements experience and best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the parent company financial statements.
Information about such judgements and estimation is included in the accounting policies and or notes to the financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the parent company financial statements include: Whether to recognise a provision for accounts receivable Notes 2i and 9: and Recognition of deferred income tax assets, amounts recorded for uncertain tax positions, the measurement of income tax expense and indirect taxes Notes 2k, and 5. f Foreign currency translation The Companys transactions are denominated in a number of different currencies primarily US dollars and UK pound sterling.
The Company has liabilities that are primarily denominated in US dollars.
The US dollar is the Companys functional currency, as well as the Companys presentation currency.
Transactions in currencies other than the US dollar are translated at the exchange rates as at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the US dollar are translated to US dollars at year-end exchange rates.
All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets measured at historical cost in a currency other than US dollars are translated using the exchange rates at the date of the initial transactions.
Where non-monetary assets are measured at fair value in a currency other than US dollars they are translated into US dollars using the exchange rates on the date when the fair value was determined.
The following exchange rates to the US dollar have been applied: Average As at Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2010 UK pound US$ : GBP 0.65 0.65 g Investment in subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies in order to obtain benefits from their activities.
Control is presumed to exist where the Company has more than one half of the voting rights unless it can be demonstrated that ownership does not constitute control.
Control does not exist where other parties hold veto rights over significant operating and financial decisions.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible as well as other contractual arrangements that enable the Company to exercise control are taken into account.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indicators of impairment.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount of the investment in subsidiary is made, which is considered to be the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use.
Fair value is determined as the amount that would be obtained from the sale of the investment in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties.
If the carrying amount of an investment exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded in the income statement to reflect the investment at the recoverable amount.
Where an impairment charge has previously been recognised, an assessment is made at the end of each reporting period whether there is any indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If any such indication exists, an estimate of the recoverable amount is made.
An impairment loss is reversed to the income statement to the extent that the increased carrying value of the investment in subsidiary does not exceed the original carrying value.
h Share capital Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
com 156 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Company financial statements continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued i Financial instruments e Significant judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty Cash and cash equivalents Many of the amounts included in the parent company financial statements require management to make judgements and or estimates.
These Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents include judgements and estimates are continuously evaluated and are based on managements experience and best knowledge of the relevant facts and cash, and money market funds.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as circumstances, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the parent company financial statements.
Information about such defined above.
judgements and estimation is included in the accounting policies and or notes to the financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
Loans and receivables Areas of judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the parent Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not company financial statements include: qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available for sale.
These are initially recognised at fair value, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
They are included in current assets, except for Whether to recognise a provision for accounts receivable Notes 2i and 9: and maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classified as non-current assets.
Recognition of deferred income tax assets, amounts recorded for uncertain tax positions, the measurement of income tax expense and Loans and receivables comprise other receivables and cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all f Foreign currency translation amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account.
The Companys transactions are denominated in a number of different currencies primarily US dollars and UK pound sterling.
The Company The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
has liabilities that are primarily denominated in US dollars.
Financial liabilities Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the US dollar are translated to US dollars at year-end exchange rates.
All Other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
differences that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Where non-monetary assets are measured at fair value in a j Finance income and finance expense currency other than US dollars they are translated into US dollars using the exchange rates on the date when the fair value was determined.
Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Company The following exchange rates to the US dollar have been applied: reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as interest income.
Average As at Year ended 31 December 31 December k Taxes 2010 2010 The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates UK pound US$ : GBP 0.65 0.65 to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
g Investment in subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies in order to Current income tax obtain benefits from their activities.
Control is presumed to exist where the Company has more than one half of the voting rights unless it can Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current period are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation be demonstrated that ownership does not constitute control.
Control does not exist where other parties hold veto rights over significant operating authorities.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject and financial decisions.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible as well as other contractual to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
The tax rates and tax arrangements that enable the Company to exercise control are taken into account.
laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Where an indicator of impairment Deferred income tax exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount of the investment in subsidiary is made, which is considered to be the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use.
Fair value is determined as the amount that would be obtained from the sale of the investment in an arms Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties.
If the carrying amount of an investment exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
is recorded in the income statement to reflect the investment at the recoverable amount.
Indirect tax Where an impairment charge has previously been recognised, an assessment is made at the end of each reporting period whether there is any Indirect tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If any such indication exists, an estimate of the recoverable taxation authorities.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in indirect tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax amount is made.
An impairment loss is reversed to the income statement to the extent that the increased carrying value of the investment in regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions or receivables where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to subsidiary does not exceed the original carrying value.
or received from the tax authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
If the receivable is expected to be received in more than 12 months from year end, the receivable is discounted and h Share capital held at its present value.
Amounts expected to be payable or receivable in more than 12 months are classified as non-current assets or liabilities Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as in the balance sheet, as appropriate.
l Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Companys financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 157 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 3.
CORPORATE ADMINISTRATION Included in corporate administration costs are the following: For the period since incorporation ended 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 Salaries 2,257 Other employee benefits 256 Share-based payments 544 Directors fee 455 Professional and consultancy fees 913 Foreign exchange loss 85 Travel and administration 699 Depreciation 41 Other 638 5,888 Details of Directors remuneration can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 87 to 95.
Details of the auditors remuneration can be found in Note 9 of the Group financial statements.
Average number of employees For the period since incorporation ended 31 December 2010 Administration 5 Total average headcount 5 4.
FINANCE INCOME For the period since incorporation ended 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 Interest on time deposits 338 Total 338 www.
com 158 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Company financial statements continued 3.
TAX EXPENSE For the Included in corporate administration costs are the following: period since incorporation For the ended period since 31 December incorporation in thousands of United States dollars 2010 ended 31 December Corporation taxes in thousands of United States dollars 2010 Total Salaries 2,257 The statutory income tax rate in the United Kingdom is 28% for 2010.
The tax on the Companys profit before tax differs from the theoretical Other employee benefits 256 amount that would arise using the statutory tax rate as follows: Share-based payments 544 Directors fee 455 For the period since Professional and consultancy fees 913 incorporation Foreign exchange loss 85 ended 31 December Travel and administration 699 in thousands of United States dollars 2010 Depreciation 41 Loss before tax 7,844 Other 638 Tax calculated at statutory tax rates 2,196 5,888 Tax effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 561 Details of Directors remuneration can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 87 to 95.
Details of the auditors remuneration can be Tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised 1,635 found in Note 9 of the Group financial statements.
Tax charge 0 Average number of employees Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the tax losses amounting to US$6.1 million as at 31 December 2010, as there is not For the period sufficient certainty over future profits.
CASH FLOW OTHER ITEMS 31 December 2010 a Operating cash flows other items Administration 5 For the Total average headcount 5 period since incorporation ended 4.
FINANCE INCOME 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 For the Adjustments for non-cash income statement items: period since incorporation Foreign exchange losses 150 ended 31 December Other expenses 544 in thousands of United States dollars 2010 Total 694 Interest on time deposits 338 Total 338 Adjustments for working capital items: For the period ended 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 Other receivables 1,024 Other payables 1,654 Other liabilities 327 Total 957 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 159 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 7.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment is composed of US$466,000 of computer equipment and office furniture, all acquired during the current year.
The depreciation charge for the year is US$41,000.
INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES For the period since incorporation ended 31 December 2010 in thousands of United States dollars Opening balance Additions 1,324,568 Closing balance 1,324,568 The subsidiaries in which investments are held as at 31 December 2010 are as follows: Equity interest Company Principal activity Country of incorporation 2010 BUK Holdco Ltd Holding Company UK 100% 1816962 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada 100% 9.
OTHER RECEIVABLES As at 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 Indirect tax receivables 295 Advance payments 117 Other receivables 11 Due from related parties Note 18 601 Total 1,024 At 31 December 2010, no other receivables were either past due or impaired.
In determining the recoverability of a receivable, the Company performs a risk analysis.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS As at 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 Cash at bank and on hand 175,637 Money market funds 11,854 Total 187,491 Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Company, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
com 160 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Company financial statements continued 7.
SHARE CAPITAL Share capital Share capital Share premium Property, plant and equipment is composed of US$466,000 of computer equipment and office furniture, all acquired during the current year.
Number 000 US$000 US$000 The depreciation charge for the year is US$41,000.
INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES Issuance of shares on IPO 101,082,317 10,108 15,415 870,950 For the period since Issuance of over-allotment shares 5,756,232 576 886 50,085 incorporation Transaction costs 53,933 ended 31 December At 31 December 2010 410,085,499 41,009 62,097 867,102 2010 in thousands of United States dollars Opening balance Incorporation of Company and Pre-IPO Reorganisation Additions 1,324,568 The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 12 January 2010 as a private limited company with a share capital of Closing balance 1,324,568 one Ordinary Share of 1.
The subsidiaries in which investments are held as at 31 December 2010 are as follows: On 19 February 2010 the Company entered into a share exchange agreement pursuant to which it acquired the entire issued share capital of Equity interest BUK Holdco Ltd from members of BGC in return for issuing 943,464 Ordinary Shares of 1 each at a premium of 999 per share.
Company Principal activity Country of incorporation 2010 On 22 February 2010 the Company entered into a share exchange agreement pursuant to which it acquired the entire issued share capital of BUK Holdco Ltd Holding Company UK 100% 1816962 Ontario Inc from BGC in return for issuing 375,000 Ordinary Shares of 1 each at a premium of 999 per share.
1816962 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada 100% The Company subsequently entered into a reduction of capital, eliminating share premium of US$1,989,138 to create distributable reserves, 9.
OTHER RECEIVABLES and restructured its share capital so as to reduce the nominal value of each of its Ordinary Shares to 10 pence.
Following the share capital As at restructuring the Company made a bonus issue of shares to its then existing shareholders in preparation for the IPO, resulting in a total of 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 303,246,950 Ordinary Shares being in issue prior to the IPO.
Indirect tax receivables 295 Re-registration of the Company as a public company Advance payments 117 On 12 March 2010, the Company re-registered as a public limited company.
Other receivables 11 Due from related parties Note 18 601 Issuance of shares on IPO Total 1,024 On 24 March 2010 the Company successfully completed its IPO.
A total number of 101,082,317 shares with a par value of 10 pence each were At 31 December 2010, no other receivables were either past due or impaired.
In determining the recoverability of a receivable, the Company issued at a price of 575 pence per share for a total of 581,223,322 US$886,365,567 net of underwriter fees.
On 15 April 2010 the Company performs a risk analysis.
issued a further 5,756,232 Ordinary Shares at a price of 575 pence per share for a total of 33,098,334 US$52,275,508 pursuant to the exercise of the over-allotment option granted in connection with the IPO.
Total costs related to the issuance of new shares taken against share premium 10.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS amounted to US$53.9 million.
STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION in thousands of United States dollars 2010 Stock options are granted to Executive Directors and to selected employees.
The exercise price of the granted options is determined by the Cash at bank and on hand 175,637 Remuneration committee before the grant of an option provided that this price cannot be less than the average of the middle-market quotation Money market funds 11,854 of such shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the three dealing days immediately preceding the date of Total 187,491 grant.
All options outstanding at the end of the year expire in 2017.
None of the options granted was exercisable at 31 December 2010.
The Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the vesting period of the options is four years, with an exercise period of three years.
Company, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
Movements in the number of options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices in pence are as follows: Average exercise price in pence per share Options For the period ended 31 December 2010 2010 At 12 January Granted 532 676,075 At 31 December 532 676,075 The weighted average fair value of the options granted during the current year using the Lattice valuation approach was determined as 171 pence per option.
The significant inputs into the model were weighted average share and exercise price of 532 pence at the grant date, volatility range of 32% to 50%, dividend yield of 0.7%, an expected option life of seven years, annual risk-free interest rate of 2.68% and suboptimal exercise multiple of 1.5x.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 161 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 13.
DIVIDENDS PAID An interim dividend of US$6.6 million US1.6 cents per share was paid during 2010.
Refer to Note 19 for details of the final dividend declared subsequent to year end.
OTHER CURRENT PAYABLES As at 31 December 2010 in thousands of United States dollars Payables 576 Payables to related parties Note 18 1,078 Total 1,654 15.
FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES a Financial assets Carrying value Fair value in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2010 Cash and cash equivalents 187,491 187,491 Other receivables 729 1,024 1 Non-current receivables 772,680 772,680 Total financial assets 960,900 961,195 Less: Current financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 187,491 187,491 Other receivables 729 1,024 Total non-current portion of receivables 772,680 772,680 1 Related party loans are interest-free and have no fixed repayment terms.
The fair value of financial assets equal their carrying amount as they were repayable on demand.
b Financial liabilities Revolving credit facility On 24 November 2010, African Barrick Gold plc and its wholly-owned subsidiary BarbCo One Ltd concluded negotiations with a syndicate of commercial banks, led by Citibank, for the provision of a revolving credit facility in a maximum aggregate amount of US$150 million.
The facility has been provided to service the general corporate needs of the Group and to fund potential acquisitions.
All provisions contained in the credit facility documentation have been negotiated on normal commercial and customary terms for such finance arrangements.
The term of the facility is 24 months and when drawn the spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points.
The shares of all significant subsidiaries have been pledged as security for the loan.
At 31 December 2010, none of the funds were drawn under the facility while a commitment fee of 1.4% was payable.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Company has exposure to the following risks through its commercial and financial operations: a credit risk: and b liquidity risk.
This note presents information about the Companys exposure to each of the above risks and the Companys objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Companys risk management framework.
The Companys risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Company, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Companys activities.
The Company, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to maintain a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
com 162 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Company financial statements continued 13.
DIVIDENDS PAID a Credit risk An interim dividend of US$6.6 million US1.6 cents per share was paid during 2010.
Refer to Note 19 for details of the final dividend declared Credit risk is the risk that a third party might fail to fulfil its performance obligations under the terms of a financial instrument.
For cash and subsequent to year end.
cash equivalents and other receivables, credit risk represents the carrying amount on the balance sheet.
Credit risk arises from loans to two subsidiaries, receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and deposits with banks.
OTHER CURRENT PAYABLES assets are with counterparties whom the Company considers have an appropriate credit rating.
Location of credit risk is determined by physical As at location of the bank branch, customer or counterparty.
The maximum allowable term of maturity for any individual security is 12 months.
31 December 2010 in thousands of United States dollars Investment counterparties must have a credit rating of at least Baa2 or better by Moodys Investor Services or BBB by Standard and Poors.
No Payables 576 more than 25% of the aggregate market value of the investment portfolio is maintained in any one country, with the exception of the United Payables to related parties Note 18 1,078 States of America, United Kingdom and Barbados, or in any one industry group.
Investments are held mainly in United States dollars and cash and cash equivalents in other foreign currencies are maintained for operational requirements.
Total 1,654 Company policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of a counterpartys failure to honour its obligations.
FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each counterparty.
The Companys financial assets are with counterparties a Financial assets whom the Company considers have an appropriate credit rating.
Carrying value Fair value in thousands of United States dollars 2010 2010 Maximum exposure to credit risk at each reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets in Note 15.
The Company does not hold collateral as security for any receivables.
The Company does not grade the credit quality of receivables.
Cash and cash equivalents 187,491 187,491 Other receivables 729 1,024 b Liquidity risk 1 Non-current receivables 772,680 772,680 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Company monitors its risk of Total financial assets 960,900 961,195 a shortage of funds using projected cash flows and by monitoring the maturity of both its financial assets and liabilities.
Less: Current financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 187,491 187,491 The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Companys significant financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on Other receivables 729 1,024 the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances may not agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
Total non-current portion of receivables 772,680 772,680 1 Related party loans are interest-free and have no fixed repayment terms.
For the period ended 31 December 2010 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total The fair value of financial assets equal their carrying amount as they were repayable on demand.
Other non-current liabilities 327 327 b Financial liabilities Other current liabilities 1,654 1,654 Total 1,654 327 1,981 Revolving credit facility Management considers that the Company has adequate current assets and forecast cash flow from operations to manage liquidity risks arising On 24 November 2010, African Barrick Gold plc and its wholly-owned subsidiary BarbCo One Ltd concluded negotiations with a syndicate from settlement of current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
of commercial banks, led by Citibank, for the provision of a revolving credit facility in a maximum aggregate amount of US$150 million.
All provisions contained in the Capital risk management credit facility documentation have been negotiated on normal commercial and customary terms for such finance arrangements.
The shares of all significant subsidiaries have been pledged as The primary objective of the Companys capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio to security for the loan.
support its business and provide financial flexibility in order to maximise shareholder value.
In order to ensure a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and approves them at its Executive committee 16.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
The Company has exposure to the following risks through its commercial and financial operations: At 31 December, the gearing ratio was as follows: a credit risk: and As at 31 December 2010 in thousands of United States dollars b liquidity risk.
Total borrowings, including related party debt This note presents information about the Companys exposure to each of the above risks and the Companys objectives, policies and processes Less: cash and cash equivalents 187,491 for assessing and managing risk.
Net debt surplus 187,491 Total equity 2,284,207 The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Companys risk management framework.
Total capital 2,096,716 The Companys risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Company, to set appropriate risk limits Gearing ratio N A and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 163 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 17.
OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS For the period since incorporation ended 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the period 131 Total 131 At the balance sheet date, the Company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: As at 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 Within one year 262 In the second to fifth years inclusive 787 After five years 1,443 Total 2,492 18.
RELATED PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS The Company had the following related party balances and transactions during the year ended 31 December 2010.
Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by Barrick, which is the ultimate controlling party of the Company.
Transactions with related parties are as follows: a Transactions For the period since incorporation ended 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 Management fee 797 Provision of goods and services 460 Purchase of goods and services 1,734 Special dividend payment 258,680 Interim dividend payment 4,852 Total 264,009 Management fees relate to an allocation of cost incurred based on time spent by management for the benefit of the related party, a 5% mark-up is applied to these costs.
Provision and purchase of goods and services to from related parties are on normal commercial terms and conditions.
Provision of services relates to cost incurred by the Company and recharged to related parties with no mark-up.
Purchase of goods and services relates to cost incurred by related parties and recharged to the Company with no mark-up.
Services purchased relate mainly to insurance, software licences and professional services.
com 164 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Company financial statements continued 17.
OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS b Balances due from related parties For the As at period since 31 December incorporation in thousands of United States dollars 2010 ended Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd 92 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 Pangea Minerals Ltd 146 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the period 131 North Mara Gold Mine Ltd 151 Total 131 Barrick Africa Pty Ltd 141 BarbCo One Ltd 67 At the balance sheet date, the Company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating Other 4 leases, which fall due as follows: Total 601 As at 31 December The receivables from related parties arise mainly from the provision of goods and services.
The receivables are unsecured in nature and bear no in thousands of United States dollars 2010 interest.
There are no provisions held against receivables from related parties.
Within one year 262 In the second to fifth years inclusive 787 c Balances due to related parties After five years 1,443 As at Total 2,492 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 Barrick Gold Corporation 1,027 18.
RELATED PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS Barrick Gold Australia Ltd 36 The Company had the following related party balances and transactions during the year ended 31 December 2010.
Related parties are those Barrick Gold of North America Inc 15 entities owned or controlled by Barrick, which is the ultimate controlling party of the Company.
Total 1,078 Transactions with related parties are as follows: The payables to Barrick arise mainly from purchase transactions, noted above, and are due 30 days after the date of purchase.
The payables are a Transactions unsecured and bear no interest.
For the d Balances due from related parties funding in nature period since incorporation As at ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2010 in thousands of United States dollars 2010 BUK 772,680 Management fee 797 Total 772,680 Provision of goods and services 460 Purchase of goods and services 1,734 Related party borrowings relate to amounts due from BUK Holdco Ltd.
These amounts are interest free and have no fixed repayment terms but Special dividend payment 258,680 are treated as long-term loans as there is no intention to recall the loan within 12 months.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS Management fees relate to an allocation of cost incurred based on time spent by management for the benefit of the related party, a 5% mark-up Dividend is applied to these costs.
A dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010 of US3.7 cents per share, amounting to a final dividend of US5.3 cents per share for Provision of services relates to cost incurred by the Company and recharged to related parties with no mark-up.
Purchase of goods and services 2010, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 21 April 2011.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
relates to cost incurred by related parties and recharged to the Company with no mark-up.
