Shareholder enquiries About African Barrick Gold A quality African gold producer ABG is Tanzanias largest gold producer and one of the five largest gold producers in Shareholder enquiries Electronic communications Africa.
We have four producing mines, all located in north west Tanzania, and several All enquiries concerning shareholdings including notification of At the forthcoming AGM, ABG will seek shareholders consent to send exploration projects at various stages of development.
With a high-quality asset base, solid change of address or dividend payments should be made to ABGs or supply documents and information to shareholders in electronic registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, whose contact form and via ABGs website, in accordance with provisions contained growth opportunities and a clear strategy, we have the objective of increasing our existing details are asfollows: inABGs articles of association.
production to one million ounces per year by 2014.
Computershare Investor Services PLC Increased use of electronic communications will deliver additional We aim to achieve this by: The Pavilions savings to ABG in terms of administration, printing and postage costs, driving operating efficiencies to optimise production from our existing asset base: Bridgwater Road as well as speeding up the provision of information to shareholders.
Bristol Thereduced use of paper will also have environmental benefits.
growing through near mine expansion and development of advanced-stage projects: and BS99 6ZZ organic greenfield growth and acquisitions in Africa.
Under the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, ABG is also Helpline number: 44 0 870 707 1895 required to ask you individually for your consent to supply documents Maintaining our licence to operate through acting responsibly in relation to our people, the electronically via ABGs website.
The relevant documentation relating environment and the communities in which we operate is central to achieving our objectives.
Computershare online enquiry service to this consent is contained in the accompanying materials to this report entitled: Important Notice Legislation Change.
If you agree to Computershare provides a range of services through its online ABG is a UK public company with its headquarters in London.
We are listed on the Main ABG sending or supplying documents and information via the website, portal, Investor Centre, which can be accessed free of charge at Market of the London Stock Exchange under the symbol ABG.
Historically and prior to our please submit your email address by visiting www.
This service enables shareholders to check initial public offering IPO, our operations comprised the Tanzanian gold mining business ecomms.
If you would prefer to receive documents and information in details of their shareholdings or dividends, download forms to notify paper form rather than via the website, you will need to let us know by changes in personal details and access other relevant information.
of Barrick Gold Corporation Barrick, our majority shareholder.
completing the reverse of the form and returning it to Computershare Payment of dividends at the address detailed above.
ABG reports in US dollars US$ in accordance with IFRS as adopted bythe European Union, unless otherwise stated in this report.
Details of dividends proposed in relation to the year are contained in If we do not receive a response from you within 28 days of the date of the Directors Report on page 82 and Notes 13 and 34 to the financial notice of the AGM, then you will be taken to have agreed that ABG may statements.
Shareholders may elect to receive payment of the 2010 final send or supply documents and information to you via its website.
ABG dividend and any future dividend in pounds sterling directly to a Bank will write to you with details of how you can access the information.
Payments of amounts in US dollars shall be made by cheque and sent by post to shareholders registered addresses on Further details regarding electronic communications can be found in 26 May 2011.
Any shareholders who elect to receive a dividend in pounds the notice accompanying this report.
sterling but who do not provide a direct credit mandate will receive Shareholder security their dividend by cheque, which will be sent toshareholders registered addresses on 26 May 2011.
Shareholders should be cautious of any unsolicited financial advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or any other unsolicited advice If you wish to receive the 2010 final dividend and any future dividend regarding investment matters.
More detailed information can be by direct credit and have not already made a payment election, please provided at www.
request a dividend mandate form from the shareholder helpline and return it to Computershare at the address above by no later than Financial calendar 6May2011.
Alternatively, direct credit mandate instructions can be Financial year end 31 December 2010 updated online at www.
Go online to find more information Preliminary results for 2010 16 February 2011 Annual General Meeting 21 April 2011 Currency Election forms can be returned using the pre-paid envelope www.
com Quarterly Results Q1 2011 26 April 2011 provided with the materials accompanying this report.
Elections made after 6 May 2011 will be applied to subsequent dividends only.
Payment date for 2010 final dividend 26 May 2011 Forward-looking statements Half year report 2011 July 2011 Should you have any queries relating to the payment of dividends, please This report includes forward-looking statements that express or imply expectations fluctuations including the US dollar: South African rand and Tanzanian shilling Quarterly Results Q3 2011 October 2011 call Computershares shareholder helpline on 44 0 870 707 1895. of future events or results.
Forward-looking statements are statements that are not exchange rates, ABGs ability to recover its reserves or develop new reserves, Quarterly Results Q4 2011 January 2012 historical facts.
These statements include, without limitation, financial projections including its ability to convert its resources into reserves and its mineral potential and estimates and their underlying assumptions, statements regarding plans, into resources or reserves, and to timely and successfully process its mineral objectives and expectations with respect to future production, operations, costs, reserves, risks of trespass, theft and vandalism, changes in its business strategy, products and services, and statements regarding future performance.
Forwardas well as risks and hazards associated with the business of mineral exploration, looking statements are generally identified by the words plans, expects, anticipates, development, mining and production.
Accordingly, investors should not place believes, intends, estimates and other similar expressions.
reliance on forward-looking statements contained in this report.
This report has a cover printed on Hello Silk and text pages printed on All forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other The forward-looking statements in this report reflect information available at the Soporset Premium Offset paper.
The paper has been independently factors.
Although ABGs management believes that the expectations reflected time of preparing this report.
Subject to the requirements of the Disclosure and certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, investors are cautioned Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules or applicable law, ABG explicitly disclaims that forward-looking information and statements are subject to various risks any obligation or undertaking publicly to release the result of any revisions to any All pulps used are mix elemental chlorine free ECF and totally chlorine and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond forward-looking statements in this report that may occur due to any change in free TCF.
The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
the control of ABG, that could cause actual results and developments to differ ABGs expectations or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report.
materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking No statements made in this report regarding expectations of future profits are profit Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO14001, FSC certified and information and statements contained in this report.
Factors that could cause or forecasts or estimates, and no statements made in this report should be interpreted contribute to differences between the actual results, performance and achievements to mean that ABGs profits or earnings per share for any future period will CarbonNeutral of ABG include, but are not limited to, political, economic and business conditions, necessarily match or exceed the historical published profits or earnings per share industry trends, competition, commodity prices, changes in regulation, currency ofABG or any other level.
Consultancy, design and production by Black Sun Plc www.
com African Barrick Gold Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Contact details ABG offices Contacts Auditors Registered office ABG Investor Relations  LLP African Barrick Gold plc Andrew Wray, Head of Corporate 1 Embankment Place 6 St Jamess Place Development and Investor Relations London WC2N 6RH London Phone: 44 0 207 129 7150 United Kingdom SW1A 1NP E-mail: awray@africanbarrickgold.
com Legal Advisers United Kingdom ABG Registrars Shearman & Sterling LLP Registered number: 7123187 Computershare Investor Services PLC Broadgate West The Pavilions 9 Appold Street Business address Bridgwater Road London 5th Floor Bristol, BS99 6ZZ EC2A 2AP No.
1 Cavendish Place United Kingdom United Kingdom London W1G 0QF United Kingdom ABG Corporate Brokers Additional Information J. P. Morgan Securities Ltd. Johannesburg office Additional information regarding 125 London Wall 2nd Floor ABG can be found on the website: London EC2Y 5AJ Bedford Square Offices Suite United Kingdom www.
com Bedford Gardens Bedfordview Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc 2007 25 Cabot Square South Africa Canary Wharf London E14 4QA Dar Es Salaam office United Kingdom Plot 1736, Hamza Aziz Road, Msasani Peninsula, P. O.
Box 1081, Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania Annual Report & Accounts 2010
