NO TES T O THE NO TI CE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEE TING 131 NOTES TO ThE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 1.
A form of proxy is enclosed and instructions for its use are shown on In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREsT to be the form.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from valid, the appropriate CREsT message a CREsT Proxy Instruction must subsequently attending, voting and speaking at the Meeting in person, in be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear uk & Ireland which case any votes of the proxy will be superseded.
Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for 2.
A member of the Company is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all such instructions, as described in the CREsT Manual.
The message, or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting of regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an the Company.
A member may appoint more than one proxy, provided amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys shares.
A proxy need not be a member.
agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments 3.
To appoint more than one proxy, an additional proxy form s may be specified in the notice of meeting 11.45 am on 24 May 2011.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined obtained by contacting the Registrars or you may photocopy the form.
Please indicate in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREsT Application Host shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
Please from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the message by also indicate by ticking the box provided if the proxy instruction is one of enquiry to CREsT in the manner prescribed by CREsT.
After this time, multiple instructions being given.
All forms must be signed and should be any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREsT should be returned together in the same envelope.
communicated to the appointee through other means.
The right to appoint a proxy under note 1 above does not apply to CREsT members and, where applicable, their CREsT sponsors and persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and voting service providers should note that Euroclear uk & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREsT for any particular who have been nominated to receive communication from the Company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement relation to the input of CREsT Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility with the registered shareholder who holds shares on their behalf to be of the CREsT member concerned to take or, if the CREsT member is a appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if CREsT personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, service provider s, to procure that his CREsT sponsor or voting service they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
message is transmitted by means of the CREsT system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREsT members and, where applicable, their 5.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy and any authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such authority for the CREsT sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to Annual General Meeting to be held at Northampton Rugby Football Club, those sections of the CREsT Manual concerning practical limitations of Franklins Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, NN5 5Bq at 11.45 am the CREsT system and timings.
The CREsT Manual can be reviewed at on Thursday 26 May 2011 and any adjournment s thereof must be www.
returned to Capita Registrars, PXs, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, The Company may treat as invalid a CREsT Proxy Instruction in kent, BR3 4Tu, by 11.45 am on 24 May 2011.
Alternatively you may the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the uncertificated submit your proxy form online by accessing the shareholder portal at securities Regulations 2001.
In each case the proxy appointments must be received by the Company www.
com, logging in and selecting the Proxy Voting link.
If you have not previously registered for electronic communications, you not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting will first be asked to register as a new user, for which you will require your or any adjournment thereof.
investor code which can be found on the enclosed proxy form, your share 7.
Only those members entered on the register of members of the Company certificate or dividend tax voucher, family name and post code if resident as at 6.00 pm on 24 May 2011 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the in the uk.
meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at 6.
CREsT members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time the CREsT electronic proxy appointment service may do by using the shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
procedures described in the CREsT Manual.
CREsT personal members or other CREsT sponsored members, and 8.
Reference to the register means the issuer register of members and the those CREsT members who have appointed a voting service provider s Operator register of members maintained in accordance with Regulation should refer to their CREsT sponsors or voting service provider s, who 20 of the uncertificated securities Regulations 2001. will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
The following documents will be available for inspection at the Registered 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 NO TES T O THE NO TI CE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEE TING 132 NOTES TO ThE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Office of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required saturdays, sundays and public holidays excluded from the date of this to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Notice to the date of the meeting and at Northampton Rugby Football Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not Club from 11.15 am on the day of the meeting until the conclusion of the later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any Copies of contracts of ser vice of directors and nonexecutive directors statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the letters of appointment with the Company, or with any of its subsidiary Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
15. under section 338 and section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, The register of directors interests kept by the Company members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have A copy of the Companys Articles of Association.
the right to require the company i to give, to members of the company A statement giving particulars of directors relevant transactions.
entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may 10.
At 22 February 2011 being the latest practicable date before publication properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting and or of this notice the issued share capital of the Company consisted of ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter 241,718,527 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in the voting rights in the Company as at 22 February 2011 was 241,718,527. business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly 11.
A person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under be included in the business unless a in the case of a resolution only section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the with any enactment or the companys constitution or otherwise, b it shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed is defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
such a or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Meeting.
If a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
must be received by the company not later than 13 April 2011, being the 12.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment date six clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to of proxies in paragraphs 1 to 6 above does not apply to a Nominated be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement Person.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised setting out the grounds for the request by registered members of the Company.
16. shareholders and their proxies will have the opportunity to ask questions 13.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate at the Meeting.
When invited by the Chairman, if you wish to ask a representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of the same powers as question, please wait for a Company representative to bring you a the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member.
It would be helpful if you could state your name before you 14. under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the ask your question.
questions may not be answered at the Meeting if they threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require are deemed not to be in the interests of the Company, or the good order of the company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter the Meeting, would interfere unduly with the preparation for the Meeting relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors or involve the disclosure of confidential information, or if the answer has report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting: already been given on a website.
The Chairman may also nominate a or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing Company representative to answer a specific question after the Meeting to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and or refer the response to the Companys website.
reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 17.
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by section 311A 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
com such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections investorcentre ir.
