D IRE CTI ONS T O NOR THAMP T ON RUGB y F OO TBALL CL UB 133 DIRECTIONS TO NORThAMPTON RUGBY FOOTBALL CLUB Northampton Rugby Football Club Franklins Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, NN5 5BG The Travis Perkins AGM will be held in The Captains Lounge and The Rodber suite.
Parking is directly outside in the VIP Car Park The Annual General Meeting is to be held at follow VIP Car park signs off Weedon Road.
Northampton Rugby Football Club From the South via the M1 From Welford, Market Harborough Exit off motorway at junction 15A and follow the signs towards sixfields.
At Aim towards the kingsthorpe area of Northampton.
Turn right at the major set roundabout with TGI Fridays on the right and a BP petrol station on the left of traffic lights the Cock Hotel is on the corner, signposted sixfields.
Continue carry straight on up the hill.
At Cineworld roundabout turn right towards the on this road until you get to Cineworld roundabout approx 3 miles then Town Centre.
Go straight over the next roundabout sainsburys is on the left continue as from the south.
before the roundabout and Wickes on the right after the roundabout and set of traffic lights.
Continue on that road Weedon Road.
The entrance to the saints From the Railway Station is on the right immediately after Beacon Bingo.
Follow signs for VIP car park Turn right out of the station.
Continue past Thomas A Becket pub, Church and off Weedon Road.
Co. factory and bus station.
At fork in road bear left and Franklins Gardens is on your left.
From the North via the M1 Exit off motorway at junction 16 and follow the A45 to Northampton.
At Nearest Airports Cineworld roundabout continue straight on and follow directions from the London Luton and Nottingham East Midlands.
Further Information From the East, Peterborough, Cambridge, Wellingborough For detailed directions you might want to try the following websites: Follow A45 to M1 junction 15.
Head north to junction 15A then follow Multimap www.
com : directions from the south.
For further details about the venue:www.
co. uk 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 O THER SHAREHOLDER INF ORMATI ON 134 OThER ShAREhOLDER INFORMATION ShAREhOLDER ENqUIRIES INTERNET shareholder enquiries should be directed to the Company secretary at the There are sites on the internet that carry a range of information about the Group Companys registered office: and its principal brands, products and services at the following addresses: Lodge Way House www.
com investor relations site Lodge Way www.
co. uk Harlestone Road www.
co. uk hire Email cosec@travisperkins.
co. uk hire or to the Companys registrars: www.
co. uk Capita Registrars www.
co. uk end user site Beckenham www.
co. uk calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras www.
co. uk Email ssd@capitaregistrars.
com should your query relate to a pensions matter please email www.
co. uk or if your query relates to a marketing matter please email www.
com FINANCIAL DIARY These sites allow credit account holders to order on-line through Trademate, Announcement of 2010 annual results 23 February 2011 with the exception of the Wickes, Tile Giant and Toolstation sites which allow Ex-dividend date 4 May 2011 on-line ordering by secure card transaction.
Record date 6 May 2011 Most of the sites provide information about branch locations and allow Annual General Meeting 26 May 2011 access to prices and the product range available.
Customers are also Payment of final dividend 31 May 2011 able to construct their own price quotation that includes any special price Announcement of 2011 interim results July 2011 arrangements that have been negotiated with the Group.
Announcement of 2011 annual results February 2012 ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION AGM CATERING ARRANGEMENTS In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of It has always been the Companys custom to provide a light luncheon for Association, the company is allowed to use its website to publish statutory shareholders following the AGM.
and a buffet luncheon will be available.
You documents and communications to shareholders, such as the Annual Report need not notify the company in advance if you would like lunch.
and Accounts and the Notice of the AGM.
You can therefore view or download a copy of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Notice of the AGM by going to 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 O THER SHAREHOLDER INF ORMATI ON 135 OThER ShAREhOLDER INFORMATION our website at www.
com see section called Investor Centre.
who it believes are resident in jurisdictions where it is advised that to If you received a hard copy of this report in the post then you will not have provide such access would or may be a breach of any legal or regulatory consented to this method of publication.
should you now wish to consent to requirements.
this method of publication, you should contact: 4.
The Companys obligation to provide shareholder documents to you is Capita Registrars satisfied when it transmits an electronic message.
The Company is not Freepost RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, SAS responsible for any failure in transmission for reasons beyond its control The Registry any more than it is for postal failures.
In the event of the Company 34 Beckenham Road, becoming aware that an electronic communication to you has not been Beckenham successfully transmitted, a further two attempts will be made.
If the Kent BR3 9ZA transmission is still unsuccessful, a hard copy of the relevant notification will be posted to your registered address.
By reducing the number of communications sent by post, it will not only 5.
Your registration to receive electronic communications and your relevant result in cost savings to the Company but also reduce the impact that the contact address details will stand until such time as the Company receives unnecessary printing and distribution of reports has on the environment.
alternative instructions from you by email or in writing.
Please note that if you consent to website publication, you will continue to be 6.
The Company takes all reasonable precautions to ensure no computer notified each time that the Company places a statutory communication on the viruses are present in any electronic communication it transmits, but the website.
This notification will be sent to you by post.
However, you may also Company shall not be responsible for any loss or damage arising from choose to receive notifications by email and we would encourage you to do so.
the opening or use of any email or attachments sent by the Company If you wish to receive these notifications by email, you should register at www.
The Company recommends that shareholders subject capitashareportal.
com, and follow the instructions see Registrars On-Line all messages to computer virus checking procedures.
communication received by or on behalf of the Company, including Please telephone Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0391 within the uk, calls the lodgement of an electronic proxy form, that is found to contain any cost 10p per minute plus network extras: lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, computer virus will not be accepted.
Monday Friday or 44 20 8639 3367 if calling from outside the uk, if you 7.
The Company reserves the right, irrespective of your election, to revert have any queries.
to sending hard copy documentation by post whenever it considers it necessary or desirable to do so.
Before consenting to receive documents and communications via the website, shareholders should ensure that they have a computer with The Companys registrars, Capita Registrars Capita, provide a number of internet access and the Adobe Acrobat reader facility.
The Adobe Acrobat services that, as a shareholder, might be useful to you: reader software may be obtained via the website free of charge.
If you elect to receive notifications of the publication of the documents and Registrars On-Line Service communications on the website electronically, it will be your responsibility By logging onto www.
com and following the prompts, to notify our registrars, Capita, of any subsequent change in your email shareholders can view and amend various details on their account.
Please address or other contact details.
note that you will need to register to use this service for which purpose you 3.
If you are not resident in the united kingdom, it is your responsibility will require your unique investor code, which can be found on your share to ensure that you may validly receive documents and communications certificate, proxy card or dividend tax voucher.
electronically either generally or in relation to any particular document or communication without the Company being required to comply with Share Dealing Services any governmental or regulatory procedures or any similar formalities.
The Capita offers an on-line and telephone share dealing service which is available Company may deny electronic access to documents and communications by logging on to www.
com or telephoning 0871 664 0346 calls relating to certain corporate actions in respect of those shareholders cost 10p per minute plus network extras: lines are open 8.00am to 4.30pm, 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 O THER SHAREHOLDER INF ORMATI ON 136 OThER ShAREhOLDER INFORMATION Monday Friday.
For the on-line service, Capitas commission rates are 1% of the value of the deal minimum 20, maximum 75 and for the telephone service, Capitas commission rates are 1.50% of the value of the deal minimum 25, maximum 102.50. Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP This is a scheme which allows you to use your dividends to buy further shares in Travis Perkins.
For any shareholders who wish to re-invest dividend payments in the Company, a facility is provided by Capita IRG Trustees Ltd in conjunction with Capita Registrars.
under this facility, cash dividends are used to purchase additional shares.
shares are bought on the dividend payment date at the then current market price.
Any cash left over which is insufficient to purchase a whole share will be carried forward and held without interest, in a Client Money bank account.
Any shareholder requiring further information should contact: Capita on 0871 664 0381 Calls cost 10p per minute plus any network extras from within the uk: lines are open from 9.00 to 5.30 pm Monday Friday.
Duplicate Share Register Accounts If you are receiving more than one copy of our report, it may be that your shares are registered in two or more accounts on our register of members.
If that was not your intention you might consider merging them into one single entry.
Please contact Capita who will be pleased to carry out your instructions.
Overseas Shareholders Capita are now able to provide you with a service that will convert your sterling dividends into your local currency at a competitive rate.
You can choose to receive payment directly into your bank account, or you can be sent a draft in your local currency.
Further details are available from: Capita Registrars Freepost RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, SAS The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 9ZA Telephone uk: 0871 664 0385 Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras: lines are open from 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday Friday or 44 20 8639 3405 from outside the uk or by logging on to www.
20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 Printed on: Scott Richardson, Sales Assistant Revive 50 Silk, a recycled paper containing 50% recycled waste and 50% virgin fibre and manufactured at a mill certified with ISO 14001 environmental management standard.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free process ECF, and Tauro Offset, made from virgin wood fibre sourced mainly from sustainable forests in the EC.
It is bleached using a Totally Chlorine Free TCF process.
This material can be disposed of by recycling, or incineration for energy and composting.
Designed by RWH Design Consultants Photography by Charles Ward BSS photography by Barry Willis Printed by Jones and Palmer This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own financial advice from your stockbroker or other independent adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in Travis Perkins plc, please forward this document, together with the accompanying documents, as soon as possible either to the purchaser or transferee or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass Robert Steward, Yard Sales Assistant these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Front cover: Mark Bonham, Yard Supervisor 20386-04 01 04 2011 Proof 3 20386-04 01 04 2011 Proof 3 tra VI s per KI ns p L C 2010 annua L repor t and a C C ount s TRAVIS PERKINS PLC 2010 ANNuAL REPoRT & ACCouNTS 2010 TRAVIS PERKINS PLC Lodge Way House HarLestone road nortHampton nn5 7ug teLepHone 01604 752 424 A LEAdER IN buILdERS mERChANTINg ANd homE ImPRoVEmENT RETAILINg 20386-04 01 04 2011 Proof 3 20386-04 01 04 2011 Proof 3
