NO TI CE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEE TING 129 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the forty-seventh Annual General Meeting of ii.
to holders of other equity securities as defined in section 560 1 Travis Perkins plc will be held at Northampton Rugby Football Club, Franklins of the Companies Act 2006 as required by the rights of those Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, NN5 5BG on Thursday 26 May 2011 securities or, subject to such rights, as the directors otherwise at 11.45 am.
consider necessary, and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and ThE RESOLUTIONS make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, Resolutions 1 to 9 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any Resolutions 10 to 12 inclusive will be proposed as special resolutions.
territory or any other matter, 1.
To receive the Companys annual accounts for the financial year ended such authorities to apply until the end of the Companys next annual 31 December 2010, together with the directors report, the directors general meeting after this resolution is passed or, if earlier, until the close remuneration report and the auditors report on those accounts and on of business on 30 June 2012 but, in each case, so that the Company the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
may make offers and enter into agreements before the authority expires 2.
To declare a final dividend for the financial year ending 31 December which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe 2010 of 10 pence per ordinary share, payable to shareholders on the for or to convert any security into shares to be granted after the authority register at the close of business on 6 May 2011. expires and the Directors may allot shares or grant such rights under any 3.
To re-appoint Andrew simon as a non-executive director, who is retiring such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
by rotation pursuant to Article 71 of the Companys Articles of Association.
That, in substitution for all existing powers and subject to the passing of Biographical details of Andrew simon appear on page 47. resolution 9, the Directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 4.
To re-appoint Philip Jansen as a non executive director, who is retiring by 570 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities as such phrase rotation pursuant to Article 71 of the Companys Articles of Association.
is to be interpreted in section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 for cash Biographical details of Philip Jansen appear on page 47. pursuant to the authority granted by resolution 9 and or where the 5.
To re-appoint John Carter as a director, who is retiring by rotation pursuant allotment constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section to Article 71 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Biographical details 560 3 of the Companies Act 2006, in each case free of the restriction in of John Carter appear on page 46. section 561 of the Companies Act 2006, such power to be limited: 6.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP, Chartered Accountants, as auditors of the a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the equity securities but in the case of an allotment pursuant to the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts authority granted by paragraph b of resolution 9, such power shall are laid.
be limited to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an 7.
To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of Deloitte LLP.
offer by way of a rights issue only : 8.
That the directors remuneration report for the financial year ended 31 i. to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be December 2010 set out on pages 62 to 71 be approved.
practicable to their existing holdings: and 9.
That, in substitution for all existing authorities, the Directors be generally ii.
to holders of other equity securities as defined in section 560 1 and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of the of the Companies Act 2006, as required by the rights of those Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot: securities or, subject to such rights, as the directors otherwise a shares as defined in section 540 of the Companies Act 2006 or consider necessary and so that the Directors may impose any limits grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares up or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider to an aggregate nominal amount of 8,057,284: and necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional b equity securities as such phrase is to be interpreted in accordance entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems with section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 up to an aggregate in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and nominal amount of 16,114,568 such amount to be reduced by the b to the allotment of equity securities pursuant to the authority aggregate nominal amount of shares allotted or rights to subscribe for granted by paragraph a of resolution 9 and or an allotment which or to convert any security into shares in the Company granted under constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section paragraph a of this resolution 9 in connection with an offer by way 560 3 of the Companies Act 2006 in each case otherwise than in of a rights issue: the circumstances set out in paragraph a of this resolution 10 up i. to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be to a nominal amount of 1,208,593 calculated, in the case of equity practicable to their existing holdings: and securities which are rights to subscribe for, or to convert securities 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 NO TI CE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEE TING 130 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING into, ordinary shares as defined in section 560 1 of the Companies Act 2006 by reference to the aggregate nominal amount of relevant shares which may be allotted pursuant to such rights, such power to apply until the end of the Companys next annual general meeting after this resolution is passed or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2012 : but so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements before the power expires which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after the power expires and the Directors may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
That a general meeting other than an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares, provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 24,171,853 representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 22 February 2011 : b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share is its nominal value of 10 pence: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from The London stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is purchased: d this authority expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 30 June 2012, whichever is the earlier: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before the expiry of such authority, which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract.
By order of the Board Andrew Pike Company secretary Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7uG 22 February 2011 Registered in England No.
824821 Directions to Northampton Rugby Football Club can be found on page 133.
