Financial statements Accounting policies Year ended 31 December 2010 a General information At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Tullow Oil plc is a company incorporated in Great Britain following Standards and Interpretations which have not been under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet office is given on page 160.
The nature of the Groups effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : operations and its principal activities are set out in the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments operations and finance reviews on pages 36 to 61.
IAS 24 amended Related Party Disclosures IAS 32 amended Classification of Rights b Adoption of new and revised standards Issues In the current year, the following new and revised Standards IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial and Interpretations have been adopted and have affected Liabilities with Equity the amounts reported in these financial statements.
Instruments Standards not affecting the reported results or the IFRIC 14 amended Prepayments of Minimum financial position Funding Requirement The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not Improvements to IFRSs May 2010 had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these The adoption of IFRS 9 which the Group plans to adopt for financial statements but may impact the accounting for future the year beginning on 1 January 2013 will impact both the transactions and arrangements.
measurement and disclosures of financial instruments.
Amendment to IFRS 3 2008 Business Combinations, IAS 27 The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the other 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements and standards listed above will have a material impact on the IAS 28 2008 Investments in Associates financial statements of the Group in future periods.
These standards have introduced a number of changes in the accounting for business combinations when acquiring a c Basis of accounting subsidiary or an associate.
IFRS 3 2008 has also introduced The financial statements have been prepared in accordance additional disclosure requirements for acquisitions.
These with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs changes have had no impact on these financial statements as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board because the Group has not effected any business IASB.
The financial statements have also been prepared in combinations or investments in associates during 2010. accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payments Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
IFRS 2 has been amended, following the issue of IFRS 3 2008, to confirm that the contribution of a business on the formation The financial statements have been prepared on the historical of a joint venture and common control transactions is not cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments that within the scope of IFRS 2. have been measured at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out below.
Amendment to IAS 17 Leases IAS 17 has been amended such that it may be possible Following its announcement on 6 July 2010, Tullow Oil plc to classify a lease of land as a finance lease if it meets the Company, together with its subsidiaries, the Group has the criteria for that classification under IAS 17. changed its presentational currency from sterling to US dollars with effect from 1 January 2010, due to the majority of Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition oil revenues and costs being dollar-denominated.
These are and Measurement the first financial statements to be presented in US dollars IAS 39 has been amended to state that options contracts and all comparative information has been restated in between an acquirer and a selling shareholder to buy or sell accordance with the requirements set out in IAS 21, The an acquiree that will result in a business combination at a Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates with respect future acquisition date are not excluded from the scope of to translation of results to presentational currency: the standard.
a. assets and liabilities denominated in non-US dollar IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners currencies were translated into US dollars at the The Interpretation provides guidance on when an entity should closing rate prevailing at the balance sheet dates: recognise a non-cash dividend payable, how to measure the dividend payable and how to account for any difference between b. non-US dollar income and expenses were translated the carrying amount of the assets distributed and the carrying into US dollars at an exchange rate which approximates amount of the dividend payable when the payable is settled.
to the exchange rate ruling at the date of transactions: and IFRS 2 amended Group Cash-settled Share-based c. all resulting exchange rate differences have been Payment Transactions recognised in other comprehensive income, within The amendment clarifies the accounting for share-based the foreign currency translation reserve.
payment transactions between group entities.
106 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 P100-153.
indd 106 106 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:39 09:39 6 In light of the ever-increasing operations of the Group being Joint ventures conducted in US dollars and the majority of the Groups The Group is engaged in oil and gas exploration, development external funding being provided in US dollars the Directors and production through unincorporated joint ventures.
The have reviewed the functional currency of Tullow Oil Plc Group accounts for its share of the results and net assets of Company only and have concluded that it is appropriate for these joint ventures as jointly controlled assets.
In addition, the functional currency of the Company to be converted from where Tullow acts as operator to the joint venture, the gross sterling to US dollars effective date of 1 January 2010. liabilities and receivables including amounts due to or from non-operating partners of the joint venture are included in The financial statements have been prepared on a going the Group balance sheet.
concern basis see note 17 for further details.
e Non-current assets held for sale d Basis of consolidation Non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held for The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value statements of the Company and entities controlled by the less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power recovered through a sale transaction rather than through to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity Management must be committed to the sale which should therein.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale those interests at the date of the original business within one year from the date of classification.
combination see below and the non-controlling share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Losses f Revenue applicable to the non-controlling interest in excess of the Sales revenue represents the sales value, net of VAT and non-controlling interests share in the subsidiarys equity overriding royalties, of the Groups share of liftings in the year are allocated against the interests of the Group except to together with tariff income.
Revenue is recognised when goods the extent that the non-controlling interest has a binding are delivered and title has passed.
obligation and is able to make an additional investment Revenues received under take-or-pay sales contracts in respect to cover the losses.
of undelivered volumes are accounted for as deferred income.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the year are included in the Group income statement from the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated of disposal, as appropriate.
future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
g Over underlift Lifting or offtake arrangements for oil and gas produced in All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses certain of the Groups jointly owned operations are such that are eliminated on consolidation.
each participant may not receive and sell its precise share of Business combinations the overall production in each period.
The resulting imbalance The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the between cumulative entitlement and cumulative production less purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the stock is underlift or overlift.
Underlift and overlift are valued aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets at market value and included within debtors and creditors given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments respectively.
Movements during an accounting period are issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus adjusted through cost of sales such that gross profit is any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The recognised on an entitlements basis.
The Groups share of acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities any physical stock, warehouse stock and materials is that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are accounted for at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as h Inventory held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 non-current assets Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable held for sale and discontinued operations, which are value.
Cost is determined by the first-in first-out method recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
and comprises direct purchase costs, cost of production, Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and transportation and manufacturing expenses.
Net realisable initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the value is determined by reference to prices existing at the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair balance sheet date.
value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement or in income or expense.
indd 107 107 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:39 09:39 Financial statements Financial statements Accounting policies continued Year ended 31 December 2010 i Foreign currencies l Depletion and amortisation discovery fields The US dollar is the presentation currency of the Group.
For All expenditure carried within each field is amortised from the the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, commencement of production on a unit of production basis, the assets and liabilities of the Groups non USD denominated which is the ratio of oil and gas production in the period to the operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the estimated quantities of commercial reserves at the end of the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated period plus the production in the period, generally on a fieldat the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange by-field basis.
Costs used in the unit of production calculation rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case comprise the net book value of capitalised costs plus the the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
estimated future field development costs.
Changes in the Currency translation adjustments arising on the restatement estimates of commercial reserves or future field development of opening net assets of non US dollar subsidiaries, together costs are dealt with prospectively.
with differences between the subsidiaries results translated Where there has been a change in economic conditions at average rates versus closing rates, are taken directly to that indicates a possible impairment in a discovery field, reserves.
All resulting exchange differences are classified the recoverability of the net book value relating to that field is as equity until disposal of the subsidiary.
On disposal, the assessed by comparison with the estimated discounted future cumulative amounts of the exchange differences are cash flows based on managements expectations of future oil recognised as income or expense.
and gas prices and future costs.
Where there is evidence of Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of economic interdependency between fields, such as common exchange ruling at the transaction dates.
Monetary assets and infrastructure, the fields are grouped as a single cash liabilities are translated into US dollars at the exchange rate generating unit for impairment purposes.
ruling at the balance sheet date, with a corresponding charge Any impairment identified is charged to the income statement as or credit to the income statement.
However, exchange gains additional depletion and amortisation.
Where conditions giving and losses arising on monetary items receivable from or rise to impairment subsequently reverse, the effect of the payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is neither impairment charge is also reversed as a credit to the income planned nor likely to occur, which form part of the net statement, net of any depreciation that would have been investment in a foreign operation, are recognised in the charged since the impairment.
foreign currency translation reserve and recognised in profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
In addition, m Decommissioning exchange gains and losses arising on long-term foreign Provision for decommissioning is recognised in full when the currency borrowings which are a hedge against the related facilities are installed.
A corresponding amount equivalent Groups overseas investments, are dealt with in reserves.
to the provision is also recognised as part of the cost of the related property, plant and equipment.
The amount recognised j Exploration, evaluation and production assets is the estimated cost of decommissioning, discounted to its net The Group adopts the successful efforts method of accounting present value, and is reassessed each year in accordance with for exploration and appraisal costs.
All licence acquisition, local conditions and requirements.
Changes in the estimated exploration and evaluation costs and directly attributable timing of decommissioning or decommissioning cost estimates administration costs are initially capitalised in cost centres are dealt with prospectively by recording an adjustment to the by well, field or exploration area, as appropriate.
Interest provision, and a corresponding adjustment to property, plant payable is capitalised insofar as it relates to specific and equipment.
The unwinding of the discount on the development activities.
Pre-licence costs are expensed in decommissioning provision is included as a finance cost.
the period in which they are incurred.
These costs are then written off as exploration costs in the n Property, plant and equipment income statement unless commercial reserves have been Property, plant and equipment is stated in the balance sheet established or the determination process has not been at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised completed and there are no indications of impairment.
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment other than production assets is provided at rates All field development costs are capitalised as property, plant calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value and equipment.
Property, plant and equipment related to of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful production activities are amortised in accordance with the economic life of between three and five years.
Groups depletion and amortisation accounting policy.
o Finance costs and debt k Commercial reserves Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, Commercial reserves are proven and probable oil and gas construction or production of qualifying assets, which are reserves, which are defined as the estimated quantities of assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological, ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of geophysical and engineering data demonstrate with a those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially specified degree of certainty to be recoverable in future ready for their intended use or sale.
years from known reservoirs and which are considered commercially producible.
There should be a 50 per cent Finance costs of debt are allocated to periods over the term statistical probability that the actual quantity of recoverable of the related debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
reserves will be more than the amount estimated as proven Arrangement fees and issue costs are deducted from the and probable reserves and a 50 per cent statistical probability debt proceeds on initial recognition of the liability and that it will be less.
are amortised and charged to the income statement as finance costs over the term of the debt.
108 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 P100-153.
indd 108 108 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:39 09:39 6 p Share issue expenses and share premium account For cash flow hedges, the portion of the gains and losses on Costs of share issues are written off against the premium the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective arising on the issues of share capital.
hedge is taken to equity and the ineffective portion, as well as any change in time value, is recognised in the income q Taxation statement.
The gains and losses taken to equity are Current and deferred tax, including UK corporation tax and subsequently transferred to the income statement during overseas corporation tax, are provided at amounts expected the period in which the hedged transaction affects the income to be paid using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted statement or if the hedge is subsequently deemed to be or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
A similar treatment applies to foreign currency corporation tax is recognised on all temporary differences loans which are hedges of the Groups net investment in that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date the net assets of a foreign operation.
where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay Gains or losses on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge more, or right to pay less, tax in the future have occurred at the accounting treatment either from inception or during the life balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to of the instrument are taken directly to the income statement the extent that it is considered more likely than not that there in the period.
will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is t Leases measured on a non-discounted basis.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards acquisitions that are categorised as Business Combinations.
of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as Deferred tax is recognised at acquisition as part of the operating leases and are charged to the income statement assessment of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired.
on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Any deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the as the underlying temporary difference is reversed.
Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the Petroleum Revenue Tax PRT is treated as an income tax and minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of deferred PRT is accounted for under the temporary difference the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in method.
Current UK PRT is charged as a tax expense on the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments chargeable field profits included in the income statement are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the and is deductible for UK corporation tax.
lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged r Pensions directly against income, unless they are directly attributable to Contributions to the Groups defined contribution pension qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance schemes are charged to operating profit on an accruals basis.
with the Groups policy on borrowing costs.
s Derivative financial instruments u Share-based payments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest Payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of that rates and movements in oil and gas prices.
standard, only those awards that were granted after 7 November 2002, and had not vested at 1 January 2005, are included.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
All share-based awards of the Group are equity settled as The purpose for which a derivative is used is established defined by IFRS 2.
The fair value of these awards has been at inception.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the derivative determined at the date of grant of the award allowing for the must be highly effective in achieving its objective and this effect of any market-based performance conditions.
This fair effectiveness must be documented at inception and throughout value, adjusted by the Groups estimate of the number of the period of the hedge relationship.
The hedge must be awards that will eventually vest as a result of non-market assessed on an ongoing basis and determined to have been conditions, is expensed uniformly over the vesting period.
highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which the hedge was designated.
The fair values were calculated using a binomial option pricing model with suitable modifications to allow for employee turnover For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified after vesting and early exercise.
Where necessary, this model as either fair value hedges, when they hedge the exposure to was supplemented with a Monte Carlo model.
The inputs to the changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or cash models include: the share price at date of grant: exercise price: flow hedges, where they hedge exposure to variability in cash expected volatility: expected dividends: risk free rate of interest: flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated and patterns of exercise of the plan participants.
with a recognised asset or liability or forecasted transaction.
In relation to fair value hedges which meet the conditions for v Financial assets hedge accounting, any gain or loss from re-measuring the All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a derivative and the hedged item at fair value is recognised trade date where the purchase or sale of a financial asset immediately in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against investment within the timeframe established by the market the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, plus income statement.
indd 109 109 28 03 2011 28 03 2011 20:41 20:41 Financial statements Financial statements Accounting policies continued Year ended 31 December 2010 Financial assets are classified into the following specified ac Critical accounting judgements and key sources of categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss estimation uncertainty FVTPL : held-to-maturity investments: available-for-sale AFS Details of the Groups significant accounting judgements and financial assets: and loans and receivables.
The classification critical accounting estimates are set out in these financial depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and statements and include: is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Carrying value of intangible exploration and evaluation fixed assets note 9 : w Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand Where a project is sufficiently advanced the recoverability of deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that intangible exploration assets is assessed by comparing the are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are carrying value to internal and operator estimates of the net subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Intangible exploration assets are inherently judgemental to value and further details on the x Loans and receivables accounting policy is included in accounting note j.
The Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have amounts for intangible exploration and evaluation assets fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active represent active exploration projects.
These amounts will market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and be written off to the income statement as exploration receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective costs unless commercial reserves are established or the interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is determination process is not completed and there are recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for no indications of impairment.
The outcome of ongoing short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would exploration, and therefore whether the carrying value of be immaterial.
exploration and evaluation assets will ultimately be recovered, is inherently uncertain.
y Effective interest method Carrying value of property, plant and equipment note 10 : The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest Management perform impairment tests on the Groups income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate property, plant and equipment assets at least annually with is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts reference to indicators in IAS 36.
Key assumptions in the including all fees on points paid or received that form an impairment models relate to prices that are based on forward integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and curves for two years and the long-term corporate assumptions other premiums or discounts through the expected life of the thereafter and discount rates that are risked to reflect financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
conditions specific to individual assets.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt Commercial reserves estimates note 10 : instruments other than those financial assets classified as Proven and probable reserves are estimated using standard at FVTPL.
The Group chooses not to disclose the effective recognised evaluation techniques.
The estimate is reviewed at interest rate for debt instruments that are classified as at least twice annually and is regularly reviewed by independent fair value through profit or loss.
Future development costs are estimated taking into account the level of development required to produce the z Financial liabilities and equity instruments reserves by reference to operators, where applicable, and Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified internal engineers.
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Presumption of going concern note 17 : The Group closely monitors and manages its liquidity risk.
Cash aa Equity instruments forecasts are regularly produced and sensitivities run for different An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual scenarios including, but not limited to, changes in commodity interest in the assets of the group after deducting all of its prices, different production rates from the Groups portfolio of liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are producing fields and delays in development projects.
The Group recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
normally seeks to ensure that it has a minimum ongoing capacity of $500 million for a period of at least 12 months to safeguard ab Other financial liabilities the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other The major assumption in current cash flow forecasts is that financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised the receipt of disposal proceeds from the Uganda farm-down, cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense which have been delayed longer than expected, will now be recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest received in Q2 2011.
On this basis, the Groups forecasts, method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a taking into account reasonably possible changes as described financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the above, show that the Group will be able to operate within its relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that current debt facilities and have very significant financial exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the headroom for the 12 months from the date of the approval of expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts.
However, in the unlikely shorter period.
event that the Ugandan farm-down process is delayed beyond Q2 2011, the Directors are confident that the Group can manage its financial affairs, including the securing of additional funding, agreement with existing lenders, 110 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 P100-153.
indd 110 110 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:39 09:39 6 portfolio management and deferring of non-essential capital expenditure, so as to ensure that sufficient funding remains available for the next 12 months.
After taking account of the above, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Derivative financial instruments note 18 : The Groups derivative financial instruments are marked to market.
Decommissioning costs note 20 : The costs of decommissioning are reviewed twice annually and are estimated by reference to operators, where applicable, and internal engineers.
During 2010 a review of all decommissioning estimates was undertaken by an independent specialist and the 2010 financial statements now include estimates in accordance with this study.
Provision for environmental clean-up and remediation costs is based on current legal and constructive requirements, technology and price levels.
Recoverability of deferred tax assets note 20. www.
