Related party transactions The Directors of Tullow Oil plc are considered to be the only key management personnel as defined by IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
2010 2009 $m $m Short-term employee benefits 7.0 6.8 Post employment benefits 0.9 0.5 Amounts awarded under long-term incentive schemes 1.4 1.9 Share-based payments 5.6 4.4 14.9 13.6 Short-term employee benefits These amounts comprise fees paid to the Directors in respect of salary and benefits earned during the relevant financial year, plus bonuses awarded for the year.
Post employment benefits These amounts comprise amounts paid into the pension schemes of the Directors.
Amounts awarded under long-term incentive schemes These amounts relate to the shares granted under the annual bonus scheme that is deferred for three years under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP.
Share-based payments This is the cost to the Group of Directors participation in share-based payment plans, as measured by the fair value of options and shares granted, accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based Payments.
There are no other related party transactions.
Further details regarding transactions with the Directors of Tullow Oil plc are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 94.
Subsequent events Since the balance sheet date Tullow has continued to progress its exploration, development and business growth strategies.
In January 2011 the Group announced the Tweneboa-3 appraisal well in the Deepwater Tano licence offshore Ghana had successfully encountered gas condensate in excellent high quality sandstone reservoirs.
The results of drilling, wireline logs and samples of reservoir fluids, together with the wells down-dip position, confirm the Greater Tweneboa Area resource base potential.
In March 2011 the Group announced the Enyenra-2A appraisal well in the Deepwater Tano licence offshore Ghana had successfully encountered oil in excellent quality sandstone reservoirs.
Good evidence of communication with Owo-1 confirms that the Owo oil discovery, now renamed Enyenra, is a major light oil field.
Pension schemes The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes for staff and Executive Directors.
The contributions are payable to external funds which are administered by independent trustees.
Contributions during the year amounted to $4.5 million 2009: $5.2 million.
At 31 December 2010, there was a liability of $0.3 million 2009: $1.0 million for contributions payable included in creditors.
