6 UK & Irish Share Incentive Plans SIPs These are all-employee plans set up in the UK and Ireland, to enable employees to save out of salary up to prescribed monthly limits.
Contributions are used by the Plan trustees to buy Tullow shares Partnership Shares at the end of each three-month accumulation period.
The Company makes a matching contribution to acquire Tullow shares Matching Shares on a one-forone basis.
Matching Shares are subject to time-based forfeiture over three years on leaving employment in certain circumstances or if the related Partnership Shares are sold.
The fair value of a Matching Share is its market value at the start of the accumulation period.
For the UK plan, Partnership Shares are purchased at the lower of the market values at the start of the Accumulation Period and the purchase date which is treated as a three-month share option for FRS 20 purposes.
For the Irish plan, shares are bought at the market price at the purchase date which does not result in any FRS 20 accounting charge.
Matching Shares vest three years after grant and dividends are paid to the employee during this period.
The Company recognised a total charge of $0.2 million 2009: $0.2 million for the UK SIP Plan and $0.2 million 2009: $0.2 million for the Irish SIP plan.
Related party transactions The Directors of Tullow Oil plc are considered to be the only key management personnel as defined by FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures.
2010 2009 Sm Sm Short-term employee benefits 7.0 6.8 Post employment benefits 0.9 0.5 Amounts awarded under long-term incentive schemes 1.4 1.9 Share-based payments 5.6 4.4 14.9 13.6 Short-term employee benefits These amounts comprise fees paid to the Directors in respect of salary and benefits earned during the relevant financial year, plus bonuses awarded for the year.
Post employment benefits These amounts comprise amounts paid into the pension schemes of the Directors.
Amounts awarded under long-term incentive schemes These amounts relate to the shares granted under the annual bonus scheme that is deferred for three years under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP.
Share-based payments This is the cost to the Group of Directors participation in share-based payment plans, as measured by the fair value of options and shares granted accounted for in accordance with FRS 20, Share-based Payments.
There are no other related party transactions.
Further details regarding transactions with the Directors of Tullow Oil plc are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 94.
Subsequent events Since the balance sheet date Tullow has continued to progress its exploration, development and business growth strategies.
In January 2011 the Group announced the Tweneboa-3 appraisal well in the Deepwater Tano licence offshore Ghana had successfully encountered gas condensate in excellent high quality sandstone reservoirs.
The results of drilling, wireline logs and samples of reservoir fluids, together with the wells down-dip position, confirms the Greater Tweneboa Area resource base potential.
In March 2011 the Group announced the Enyenra-2A appraisal well in the Deepwater Tano licence offshore Ghana had successfully encountered oil in excellent quality sandstone reservoirs.
Good evidence of communication with Owo-1 confirms that the Owo oil discovery, now renamed Enyenra, is a major light oil field.
