Supplementary information Shareholder information Shareholder enquiries Electronic communication All enquiries concerning shareholdings including notification Shareholders have the option to receive shareholder of change of address, loss of a share certificate or dividend communications including annual reports and notices of payments should be made to the Companys registrars, meetings electronically.
Tullow actively supports Woodland Trust, Computershare Investor Services PLC, whose contact the UKs leading woodland conservation charity.
Computershare, details are as follows: together with Woodland Trust, has established eTree, an environmental programme designed to promote electronic Computershare Investor Services PLC shareholder communications.
Under this programme, the The Pavilions Company makes a donation to eTree for every shareholder Bridgwater Road who registers for electronic communication.
To register for Bristol this service, simply visit www.
com tullowoilplc with your BS99 6ZZ shareholder number and email address to hand.
co. uk contactus shareholders will be emailed when an annual report or notice of meeting is available for viewing on the Tullow website.
Telephone number UK shareholders: 0870 703 6242 Telephone number Irish shareholders: 00 353 1 216 3744 Shareholder security Telephone number other shareholders: 00 44 870 703 6242 Shareholders are advised to be cautious about any unsolicited A range of shareholder frequently asked questions and financial advice: offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of practical help on transferring shares and updating details is free company reports.
More detailed information can be found available online in the Shareholder Services section located in at www.
uk and in the Shareholder the Investors area of the Tullow website: www.
Services section of the Investors area of the Tullow website: www.
Computershare online enquiry service Computershare provides a range of services through its ShareGift online portal, Investor Centre, which can be accessed free of If you have a small number of shares whose value makes charge at www.
This service, accessible it uneconomical to sell you may wish to consider donating from anywhere in the world, enables shareholders to check them to ShareGift.
Any shares donated to ShareGift will be details of their shareholdings or dividends, download forms aggregated and sold when possible with the proceeds donated to notify changes in personal details, and access other to a wide range of UK charities.
The relevant share transfer relevant information.
form may be obtained from Computershare.
Further information about the scheme is available at www.
Payment of dividends Shareholders can have their dividends paid directly into a UK Financial calendar sterling or Irish euro bank account and have the tax voucher Financial year end 31 December 2010 sent directly to their registered address.
You can register your 2010 Full-year results announced 9 March 2011 account details in Investor Centre or, alternatively download Annual General Meeting 12 May 2011 a dividend mandate form.
Interim Management Statement 12 May 2011 2010 Final dividend payable 20 May 2011 Overseas shareholders who wish to have their dividends paid 2011 Half-yearly results announced 24 August 2011 in a local currency can use the Global Payments Service that 2011 Interim dividend payable November 2011 Computershare has established.
Details of the service can be Interim Management Statement November 2011 accessed in the Shareholder Services section of the Investors area of the Tullow website: www.
Share dealing service A telephone share dealing service has been established for shareholders with Computershare for the sale and purchase of Tullow Oil shares.
Shareholders who are interested in using this service can obtain further details by calling the appropriate telephone number below: UK shareholders: 0870 703 0084 Irish shareholders: 00 353 1 447 5435 If you live outside the UK or Ireland and wish to trade you can do so through the Computershare Trading Account.
To find out more or to open an account, please visit www.
158 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 P158-164.
