Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements Year ended 31 December 2010 a Basis of accounting Q2 2011, the Directors are confident that the Company can The financial statements have been prepared under the historical manage its financial affairs, including the securing of cost convention in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and additional funding, agreement with existing lenders, portfolio UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
The management and deferring of non-essential capital following paragraphs describe the main accounting policies expenditure, so as to ensure that sufficient funding remains under UK GAAP which have been applied consistently.
available for the next 12 months.
In light of the ever-increasing operations of the Group being After taking account of the above, the Directors have a reasonable conducted in US dollars and the majority of the Groups expectation that the Company has adequate resources to external funding being provided in US dollars the Directors continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
have reviewed the functional currency of Tullow Oil plc Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in Company only and have concluded that it is appropriate for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
the functional currency of the Company to be converted from sterling to US dollars effective date of 1 January 2010. b Investments Fixed asset investments, including investments in subsidiaries, In addition the Directors have deemed it appropriate to change are stated at cost and reviewed for impairment if there are the presentational currency of the Company from sterling to indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
US dollars effective from 1 January 2010.
These are the first financial statements to be presented in c Finance costs and debt US dollars and all comparative information has been restated Finance costs of debt are allocated to periods over the term of in accordance with the requirements set out in FRS 23, the related debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates with Interest-bearing bank loans are recorded at the proceeds respect to translation of results to presentational currency: received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including a. assets and liabilities denominated in non-US dollar premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue currencies were translated into US dollars at the closing costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the profit and rate prevailing at the balance sheet dates: loss account using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are b. non-US dollar income and expenses were translated into not settled in the period in which they arise.
US dollars at an exchange rate which approximates to the exchange rate ruling at the date of transactions: and d Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified c. all resulting exchange rate differences have been according to the substance of the contractual arrangements recognised in other comprehensive income, within the entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences foreign currency translation reserve.
a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting In accordance with the provisions of Section 408 of the all of its liabilities.
Companies Act, the profit and loss account of the Company is not presented separately.
During the year the Company made e Foreign currencies a loss of $47.1 million.
In accordance with the exemptions The US dollar is the reporting currency of the Company.
available under FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements, the Company Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of has not presented a cash flow statement as the cash flow of exchange ruling at the transaction date.
Monetary assets and the Company has been included in the cash flow statement liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into of Tullow Oil plc Group set out on page 105.
US dollars at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, with a corresponding charge or credit to the profit and loss In accordance with the exemptions available under FRS 8 account.
However, exchange gains and losses arising on longRelated party transactions, the Company has not separately term foreign currency borrowings, which are a hedge against the presented related party transactions with other Group companies.
Companys overseas investments, are dealt with in reserves.
The Company closely monitors and manages its liquidity risk.
Cash forecasts are regularly produced and sensitivities run for f Share issue expenses different scenarios including, but not limited to, changes in Costs of share issues are written off against the premium commodity prices, different production rates from the Groups arising on the issues of share capital.
portfolio of producing fields and delays in development projects.
The Company normally seeks to ensure that it has a minimum g Taxation ongoing capacity of $500 million for a period of at least 12 Current and deferred tax, including UK corporation tax, is months to safeguard the Companys ability to continue as a provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates going concern.
and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
The major assumption in current cash flow forecasts is that the receipt of disposal proceeds from the Uganda farm-down, h Share-based payments which has been delayed longer than expected, will now be The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 received in Q2 2011.
On this basis, the Companys forecasts, Share-based Payments.
In accordance with the transitional taking into account reasonably possible changes as described provisions of that standard, only those awards that were above, show that the Company will be able to operate within its granted after 7 November 2002, and had not vested at current debt facilities and have very significant financial 1 January 2005, are included.
headroom for the 12 months from the date of the approval of the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts.
However, in the unlikely All share-based awards of the Company are equity settled event that the Ugandan farm-down process is delayed beyond as defined by FRS 20.
The fair value of these awards has 142 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 P100-153 V2  ONLY.
indd 142 142 28 03 2011 28 03 2011 20:41 20:41 6 been determined at the date of grant of the award allowing for the effect of any market-based performance conditions.
This fair value, adjusted by the Companys estimate of the number of awards that will eventually vest as a result of non-market conditions, is expensed uniformly over the vesting period.
The fair values were calculated using a binomial option pricing model with suitable modifications to allow for employee turnover after vesting and early exercise.
Where necessary this model was supplemented with a Monte Carlo model.
The inputs to the models include: the share price at date of grant: exercise price: expected volatility: expected dividends: risk free rate of interest: and patterns of exercise of the plan participants.
i Capital management The Company defines capital as the total equity of the Company.
Capital is managed in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits to stakeholders and to safeguard the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Tullow is not subject to any externally-imposed capital requirements.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital, issue new shares for cash, repay debt, and put in place new debt facilities.
