Financial Calendar Cautionary Statement Record date for 2010 second interim dividend 15 April This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, the members of United Business Media Limited the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
Annual General Meeting 10 May The Company, its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept or Second interim dividend payment date 19 May assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or Announcement of interim results 29 July into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly First Interim dividend for 2011 payment date October disclaimed.
By their nature, the statements concerning the risks and uncertainties facing the Group in this Annual Report involve uncertainty since future events We help businesses do business.
and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available We enable professional people around the world to at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
connectand engage with each other, with the markets theyserve and with the information they need to succeed.
We do this by providing them with access both to theiraudiences and to insightful, business-critical informationby whatever means works best at live events, through digital media or in publications.
Our expert staff are deeply embedded within each ofthemany professional communities we serve.
Working within a culture of creativity and collaboration, we share knowledge, know-how and ideas right across UBMs businessesand around the globe.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 153 United Business Media Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 United Business Media Limited www.
com Helping business...... to do business Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
