Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2010 1.
General information United Business Media Limited UBML is a company incorporated in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The address of the registered office is Ogier House, The Esplanade, St. Helier, JE4 9WG, Jersey.
UBML is tax resident in the Republic of Ireland.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 3.
The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 were authorised for issue on behalf of the Board of Directors and signed on the Boards behalf by Robert Gray on 1 March 2011.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the functional currency of the parent company, UBML.
All amounts are rounded to the nearest 0.1m.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 2.
The comparative information for the year ended 31 December 2009 has been restated for acquisition accounting adjustments which have been finalised in relation to certain acquisitions made in 2009.
The comparative information has been restated in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The impact of this restatement is to decrease goodwill and accruals and deferred income by 0.2m.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
Management continually evaluate these estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available information and experience, as detailed in Note 2.
Significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and IFRIC interpretations.
The financial statements are prepared in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments that have been measured at fair value.
The carrying values of recognised assets and liabilities that are designated as hedged items in fair value hedges that would otherwise be carried at amortised cost are adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable to the risks that are being hedged in effective hedge relationships.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Refer to page 39 of the Financial Review for further details.
Basis of consolidation a Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of UBML and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared to the same reporting date as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group by virtue of the Group holding the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally resulting from a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Losses incurred within a subsidiary from 1 January 2010 are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance.
The Group uses the acquisition method to account for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is classified as a financial liability that is within the scope of IAS 39 is recognised in profit or loss.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities including contingent liabilities assumed are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an  basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and are included in exceptional items related to acquisitions.
The excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and in the case of business combinations achieved in stages the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of the net assets acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in profit or loss.
If a business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of the Groups previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
When a disposal results in the Group ceasing to have control or significant influence, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
Where there is a change in ownership of a subsidiary without a change in control held by the Group, the difference between the consideration paid received and the relevant share of the carrying value of net assets acquired disposed of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 77 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Business combinations prior to 1 January 2010 The basis of consolidation for subsidiaries described above has been applied by the Group to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after 1 January 2010.
Prior to this date before the adoption or IFRS 3 revised 2008, the following elements were different: Business combinations were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
The cost of an acquisition was measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The non-controlling interest formerly minority interest was measured as the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Contingent consideration was recognised if, and only if, the Group had a present obligation, the economic outflow was more likely than not and a reliable estimate is determinable.
Subsequent adjustments to the contingent consideration affected the recorded goodwill.
Acquisitions of an additional interest in a subsidiary, where control was already held by the Group, were accounted for under the entity concept method.
The difference between the cost of the additional interest and the carrying value of the non-controlling interests share of net assets on the date of acquisition was reflected in equity as a transaction between owners and did not affect previously recognised goodwill.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the Group accounted for the investment retained at its proportionate share of net asset value at the date control was lost.
The carrying values of such investments at 1 January 2010 have not been restated.
Losses incurred within a subsidiary were attributed to the non-controlling interest until the balance was reduced to nil.
Any additional losses were attributed to the parent, unless the non-controlling interest had a binding obligation to cover these.
Further losses incurred during 2010 within subsidiaries acquired prior to 1 January 2010 have been allocated to the non-controlling interest.
Losses prior to 1 January 2010 have not been reallocated to the non-controlling interest.
b Joint ventures The Groups interests in its joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
These are entities over which the Group has entered into a contractual agreement with a third party to share control.
The reporting dates of the joint ventures and the Group are identical and the accounts are prepared on the basis of the Groups accounting policies.
Under the equity method, the income statement reflects the Groups aggregate share of the results of operations of the joint ventures.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the joint ventures other comprehensive income or equity, the Group recognises its share of any such changes.
The investments in joint ventures are carried in the statement of financial position at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the joint ventures.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables that form part of the net investment in the joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
c Associates The Groups investments in its associates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
These are entities in which the Group has significant influence through the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures.
The financial statements of the associates are used by the Group to apply the equity method.
The reporting dates of the associates and the Group are identical and the accounts are prepared on the basis of the Groups accounting policies.
Under the equity method, the income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the associates.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the associates other comprehensive income or equity, the Group recognises its share of any such changes.
The investments in associates are carried in the statement of financial position at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associates.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables that form part of the net investment in the associate, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Upon loss of significant influence over the associate, the Group measures and recognises any retaining investment at its fair value.
Any difference between the carrying amount of the associate upon loss of significant influence and the fair value of the retaining investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit and loss.
Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the adoption from 1 January 2010 of the following revised and improved IASs, IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations: IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised 2008 which makes significant changes to the treatment of acquisition costs and performance-related consideration and other contingent consideration relating to an acquisition and provides an option the full goodwill method to recognise 100% of the goodwill of an acquired entity, rather than just the entitys acquired portion of goodwill, with corresponding increases to goodwill and non-controlling interests.
The revised standard has been adopted prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after 1 January 2010.
The adoption of this revised standard has resulted in acquisition costs on such business combinations being expensed in the income statement and classified as cash flows from operations in the statement of cash flows.
Contingent consideration relating to acquisitions made in the year ended 31 December 2010 has been estimated at the date of acquisition: any subsequent revisions to these estimates will be recorded in the income statement.
The Group policy is to present acquisition costs and changes in contingent consideration as exceptional items relating to acquisitions as they do not relate to underlying business operations.
Further details of business combinations made in the year ended 31 December 2010 are given in Note 29.
78 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised 2008 which requires non-controlling interests formerly minority interests to be presented within equity which has been Group policy for several years.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary without loss of control is accounted for as a transaction with owners in their capacity as owners and will not impact goodwill or give rise to any gain or loss.
When there is loss of control of a subsidiary, any retained interest is remeasured to fair value, which will impact the gain or loss recognised on disposal.
The revised standard also no longer restricts the allocation to non-controlling interests of losses incurred by a subsidiary to the amount of the non-controlling equity investment.
The changes by the revised standard affect transactions with noncontrolling interests after 1 January 2010.
It has had no effect on the financial position or performance of the Group, but it may lead to changes in accounting for subsidiaries in the future.
Consequential amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures resulting from the above amendments to IFRS 3 have also been adopted by the Group from 1 January 2010.
Improvements to IFRSs 2009 in April 2009, the IASB issued its second omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily to remove inconsistencies and to clarify wording.
There are separate transitional provisions for each standard.
The adoption of the following improvements resulted in changes to accounting policies but did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group: The improvement to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows states that only expenditure that results in the recognition of an asset can be classified as a cash flow from investing activities.
As a result of this change adopted from 1 January 2010 and the adoption of IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised 2008, acquisition costs and payments of changes in contingent consideration on business combinations will be classified as operating cash flows, within Exceptional items and charges to provisions and Fair value adjustments of contingent considerations respectively.
These transactions are detailed in Note 29.
The amendment to IAS 36 Impairment of Assets clarifies that the largest unit permitted for allocating goodwill acquired in a business combination is the operating segment as defined in IFRS 8 before aggregation for reporting purposes.
The amendment, adopted from 1 January 2010, has no impact on the Group as the annual impairment test is performed before aggregation.
Other amendments resulting from Improvements to IFRSs 2009 to the following standards did not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group: IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives.
IFRIC 16 Hedge of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation.
The following standards and interpretations have also been adopted in the year ended 31 December 2010, but have had no impact on the financial position or performance of the Group or presentation of the financial statements: IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions amendment, effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
The amendment clarifies the scope and accounting for group settled share-based payment transactions.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible hedged items amendment, effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The amendment clarifies that an entity is permitted to designate a portion of the fair value changes or cash flow variability of a financial instrument as a hedged item.
This also covers the designation of inflation as a hedged risk or portion in particular situations.
The Group has not entered into any such hedges.
IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners, effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The interpretation provides guidance on accounting for arrangements whereby an entity distributes non-cash assets to shareholders either as a distribution of reserves or as dividends.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the income statement, except where hedge accounting is applied and for differences on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to other comprehensive income until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses are translated at the prevailing monthly exchange rate throughout the year.
The resulting exchange differences are taken directly to a separate component of equity, which was reset to zero on first time adoption of IFRS.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 79 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Revenue Revenue is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services, net of trade discounts, VAT, other sales related taxes, and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue is recognised as follows: For sales of services, revenue is recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered by reference to stage of completion of the specific transaction assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
For sales of goods, revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Where sales consist of two or more independent components whose value can be reliably measured, revenue is recognised on each component as it is completed by performance, based on attribution of relative value.
Events: Revenue is recognised upon event completion.
Advance deposits are recorded as deferred income on the balance sheet.
Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring: Revenue from news releases is recognised on message delivery.
Revenue from subscriptions is recognised over the life of the subscription.
Data Services: Directories: Linage and advertising revenue is recognised on delivery of the directory and copy sales revenue is recognised on the sale of the directory.
Data services: Revenue from data subscriptions is recognised over the life of the subscription.
Revenue from data projects for immediate delivery is recognised on delivery of the data.
Revenue from data projects is recognised on a percentage completion basis over the life of the project.
Online Marketing Services: Revenue is recognised at the point of delivery or fulfilment for single discrete services and over the life of subscriptions for subscription services.
Print Magazines: Advertising revenue is recognised on publication.
Interest and other income a Interest income Income is recognised as the interest accrues using the effective interest rate method: that is, the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
b Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive the payment is established.
c Rental income Rental income arising from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term on ongoing leases.
Goodwill and intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured as described in the subsidiaries section of the above basis of consolidation.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Details of the Groups CGUs are provided in Note 12.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.
The impairment review requires management to undertake certain judgements, including estimating the recoverable value of the CGU to which the goodwill relates, based on either fair value less costs to sell or the value in use, in order to reach a conclusion on whether it deems the goodwill to be recoverable.
Estimating the fair value less costs to sell is based on the best information available, and refers to the amount at which the CGU could be sold in a current transaction between willing parties.
The valuation methods are based on an earnings multiple approach.
The earnings multiple approach uses transaction multiples, obtained from comparable businesses in the professional media sector.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects managements estimate of return on capital employed required in each CGU which is subject to a value in use calculation.
Management is assisted by the work of external advisors in calculating the fair value less costs to sell and value in use of its CGUs.
Further details are given in Note 12.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Where goodwill forms part of a CGU and part of the CGU is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal.
80 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued b Intangible assets Website development costs relating to the application and infrastructure development, graphical design and content development stages incurred with third parties are recognised as assets and measured at cost.
All other internally generated intangible assets, including internally generated software, are recognised as an expense in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are measured at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are measured at cost or fair value at the date of acquisition less any amortisation and any impairment losses.
Intangible assets are amortised over their useful lives as follows: Useful Lives Method Brands 10 years Straight line Software 56 years Straight line Customer contracts and relationships 110 years Straight line Subscription lists 25 years Straight line Trademarks 10 years Straight line Databases 210 years Straight line Website development costs 3 years Straight line Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable are made on a prospective basis.
The Group does not have any intangible assets with indefinite lives.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less any depreciation and any impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided on all items except freehold land.
Depreciation rates are calculated so that assets are written down to the residual value in equal annual instalments over their expected useful lives, which are as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold property Up to 70 years Leasehold improvements Term of lease General plant, machinery and equipment 520 years Computer equipment 35 years Motor vehicles 35 years An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in the income statement in the year the asset is derecognised.
The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation of the assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each financial year end.
Impairment of assets Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, investments in joint ventures and associates and other investments are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For purposes of assessing impairment, assets that do not individually generate cash flows are assessed as part of the cash-generating unit to which they belong.
Cash-generating units are the lowest levels for which there are cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows from other assets or groups of assets.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs as calculated under the effective interest method directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to prepare for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred.
Inventories Inventories and work in progress are valued on the first in first out basis at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises materials and directly attributable production costs.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price for inventories less all estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to make the sale.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 81 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Leases The Group does not have any finance leases.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
a Group as a lessee Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
b Group as a lessor Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income.
Financial instruments Financial assets in the scope of IAS 39 are classified as either financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments, or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
Financial liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as either financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss derivative financial liabilities or financial liabilities at amortised cost borrowings and trade and other payables.
When financial instruments are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, and in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss, after taking account of directly attributable transaction costs.
a Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 30-90 day terms, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when there is no expectation of recovery.
For more details refer to Note 18. b Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand, deposits and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Cash equivalents are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts which are shown within borrowings.
c Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised at original cost.
d Borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, being the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost, and any difference between the proceeds and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
e Other investments The Group classifies its investments at initial recognition as available-for-sale financial assets.
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Listed and unlisted investments are stated at fair value except in respect of unquoted equity investments where there is no active market and where the fair value cannot be reliably measured, in which case they are measured at cost less any impairment.
Gains and losses on remeasurement to fair value are included in other comprehensive income until the investment is disposed of.
f Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market rates of interest.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments for hedge accounting, as either fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction: or as a hedge of net investment in foreign operations.
More details on the Groups hedges are given in Note 21.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
For fair value hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the income statement.
82 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges of forecast transactions are recognised directly as other comprehensive income in the cash flow hedge reserve.
Amounts deferred in this way are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged firm commitments or forecast transactions are recognised in the income statement.
Net investment hedges take the form of foreign currency borrowings and forward currency contracts.
All foreign exchange gains or losses arising on translation of net investments are recorded in other comprehensive income and included in cumulative translation differences.
Borrowings and forward currency contracts used as hedging instruments in a net investment hedge are revalued at closing exchange rates.
The resulting gains or losses are taken to other comprehensive income to the extent that they are effective, with any ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gains or losses on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive income are retained until the forecast transaction occurs, when they are transferred to profit or loss.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
g Put option arrangements Put option agreements that allow non-controlling interest shareholders to require the Group to purchase the non-controlling interest are treated as derivatives over equity instruments in accordance with IAS 39.
The options are initially recognised at fair value within derivative financial liabilities, with a corresponding charge directly to equity, recognised separately as put options over non-controlling interests.
The fair value is based on the present value of expected cash outflows on forecasted future earnings, which would be payable on exercise of the option.
Subsequent changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised as movements in the income statement within financing income expense other.
h Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the fair value of the proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the owners of the Company until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the owners of the Company.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets A financial asset is derecognised where: the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: or the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: or the Group has transferred its right to receive cash flows from the asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Where the Group has transferred its right to receive cash flows from an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, the asset is recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in the asset.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to pay.
Financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as derecognition of the original liability and recognition of a new liability, and the difference between the carrying amounts of the original liability and the fair value of the new liability is recognised in the income statement.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 83 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Taxation Income tax represents both current tax based on taxable profits, and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent it arises from a transaction or event recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity or a business combination.
Tax relating to transactions or events recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of certain of these items may give rise to material profit and loss and or cash flow variances.
The Group is a multinational Group with tax matters in many geographical locations.
This inherently leads to complexity to the Groups tax structure and requires estimation and judgement.
The timing of resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result, there can be substantial differences between the tax charge in the income statement and tax payments.
The Group has an accrual for tax liabilities which is measured at the directors estimate of tax that may become payable.
These tax accruals are estimates and the actual amounts and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events.
Any difference between expectations and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period such determination is made.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition of goodwill for deferred tax liabilities or of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes.
For the defined contribution schemes, the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of employee service rendered during the accounting period are recognised as an expense in that period.
For the defined benefit pension schemes, the liability for the benefits earned by employees in return for service rendered in the current and prior periods is determined using the projected unit credit method as determined annually by independent qualified actuaries.
This is based upon a number of financial assumptions, the determination of which is significant to the balance sheet valuation.
These are set out and discussed in Note 24.
The following are charged to operating profit: The increase in the present value of pension scheme liabilities arising from employee service in the current period.
The increase in the present value of pension scheme liabilities as a result of benefit improvements over the period during which such improvements vest: and Gains and losses arising on settlements curtailments.
A credit in respect of the expected return on the schemes' assets and a charge in respect of the increase during the period in the present value of the schemes' liabilities because the benefits are one period closer to settlement are shown in the income statement as financing income pension schemes.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside profit or loss and presented in other comprehensive income.
Defined benefit pension surpluses are recognised where scheme rules indicate that such surpluses are recoverable by the Group in the form of either an unconditional right to refund if the scheme were to be wound up or reductions in future contributions.
Surpluses are expected to be recoverable under all of the UK defined benefit pension schemes.
The minimum funding requirement of the UK defined benefit schemes is included in the assessment of whether an IAS 19 surplus is expected to emerge.
Future tax payable on surplus refunds is shown as an irrecoverable surplus.
Adjustments to the amount of irrecoverable surplus are recognised in other comprehensive income.
84 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Share-based payments Employees including directors of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
Equity-settled transactions The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment to all grants of equity instruments made after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the grant date of the equity instruments granted.
The fair value is determined by an external advisor using the Black Scholes or Monte Carlo methods as appropriate, and takes into account any market vesting conditions or non-vesting conditions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the periods in which the vesting conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition or a non-vesting condition, be treated as vesting as described below.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
No expense or increase in equity is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
Awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions ie.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of the entity or the employees are not met.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect is material, expected future cash flows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, as appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Provisions are estimates and the actual cost and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events.
Management reassesses the amounts of these provisions at each balance sheet date in order to ensure that they are measured at the current best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Any difference between the amounts previously recognised and the current estimates is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Further details are given in Note 23.
Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Groups consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities.
Management continually evaluate these judgements, estimates and assumptions based on available information and experience.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity in order to apply the Groups accounting policies are: Unrecognised deferred tax assets Note 9.
Identification of cash-generating units and assumptions used in annual impairment testing of goodwill Note 12.
Assumptions used in determining retirement benefit obligations Note 24.
Identification of intangible assets arising on business combinations Note 29.
The areas requiring management estimates are: Current tax liabilities Taxation accounting policy, Note 2.
Forecast EBITA used in annual impairment testing of goodwill Note 12.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 85 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Future changes in accounting policies The following revised IFRSs and IASs have been issued but are not effective for the year ended 31 December 2010 and are expected to impact the Groups financial statements upon adoption: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments the requirements of IFRS 9 complete the classification and measurement phase of the IASBs project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Financial assets will be classified using a single approach to determine whether measured at amortised cost or fair value, replacing the many different rules under IAS 39.
Liabilities will be measured in accordance with the existing requirements of IAS 39, but with a change for measuring own credit: an entity choosing to measure a liability at fair value will present the portion of the change in its fair value due to changes in the entitys own credit risk in other comprehensive income, rather than in the income statement.
The Group is currently evaluating the impact of this new standard on the financial statements of the Group.
The new standard becomes effective from 1 January 2013.
Improvements to IFRSs 2010 a further collection of minor amendments to a number or standards.
Those which are considered to have a reasonable possible impact on the Group, although no impact on the financial position or performance, are: IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Instruments.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
The following IASs and IFRICs have been issued but are not effective for the year ended 31 December 2010 and are not expected to impact the Groups financial statements upon adoption: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures amended transfer transactions of financial assets, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
IAS 12 Income Taxes amended, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012.
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures revised, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation classification of rights issues amended, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010.
IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction amended, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Liabilities with Equity Instruments, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
Segment information Operating segments The chief operating decision maker CODM for the purpose of IFRS 8 reporting is the executive management team the Group Chief Executive Officer and the Group Chief Financial Officer.
The Group operates in a number of different markets and communities and considers that presentation of financial results on a products and services basis is the most appropriate way to demonstrate the performance of the Group.
For the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of performance, the CODM regularly reviews information based on the products and services at a revenue and adjusted operating profit as defined in the footnote to the income statement level.
During 2010, UBM continued to reshape the business towards opportunities and attractive growth prospects creating a range of quality products and services which help specific communities to do business effectively.
As a result, the Data Services and Online reportable segment has been split into two separate operating and reportable segments: Data Services and Online Marketing Services.
Decisions regarding resource allocation, strategy and financial performance for the Online Marketing Services business are now distinct from those made for the Data Services business.
Discrete financial information for each of Data Services and Online Marketing Services is now regularly provided and reviewed by the CODM.
The comparative information for the year ended 31 December 2009 has been restated to reflect the new operating and reportable segments.
The Group considers there to be five reportable operating segments organised around products and services: Events which provide face-to-face interaction in the form of exhibitions, trade shows, conferences and other live events.
Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring which operates in the targeting and distribution of company information and the evaluation of its impact on targeted audiences.
Data Services which provide a range of services including data-based workflow products, intellectual property consultancy and analytical services and sales lead generation programmes.
Online Marketing Services which provides website sponsorships and banner advertising as well as online directory products: and Print Magazines which publishes magazines and trade press to specialist markets.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable segments.
The Groups management reporting and controlling systems use the accounting policies that are the same as those referred to in Note 2.
86 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 3.
Segment information continued Segment measures The Group measures the performance of its operating segments through a measure of segment profit or loss which is referred to as adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted operating profit represents operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items, impairment charges and share of taxation on results of joint ventures and associates.
This measure is reported to the CODM for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of performance.
Interest income, interest expense and income tax expense are not included in the adjusted operating profit measure which is reviewed by the CODM.
Tax and treasury balances are managed centrally.
Segment assets and liabilities are not regularly provided to the CODM.
The Group has elected, as provided under IFRS 8 Operating Segments amended 2009 not to disclose a measure of segment assets or liabilities where these amounts are not regularly provided to the CODM.
Intersegment revenue is recorded at values that represent estimated third-party selling prices.
With respect to geographical regions, revenue is generally allocated to countries based on the location where the products and services are provided.
Non-current assets are disclosed according to the location of the businesses to which the assets relate.
Year ended 31 December 2010 Depreciation including Share of amortisation pre-tax Segment of website results from adjusted External Intersegment Total development JVs and operating revenue revenue revenue costs associates profit loss m m m m m m Events 310.0 0.5 310.5 4.5 2.0 93.5 Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring 181.2 0.4 181.6 5.7 1.0 42.1 Data Services 184.7 184.7 2.7 0.3 34.1 Online Marketing Services 69.2 69.2 1.0 1.3 Print Magazines 144.1 144.1 2.1 10.0 Total segments 889.2 0.9 890.1 16.0 3.3 181.0 Corporate costs 0.4 0.3 15.6 Internal cost recoveries and sundry income 6.4 Eliminations 0.9 0.9 889.2 889.2 16.4 3.6 171.8 Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisitions 27.8 Exceptional reorganisation and restructuring costs 5.8 Exceptional items relating to acquisitions 5.1 Share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates 0.8 Group operating profit 132.3 Interest income 0.7 Interest expense 19.4 Financing income 3.3 Financing income other 1.2 Financing expense other 2.6 Profit before tax 115.5 T otal corporate costs for 2010 were 15.6m 2009: 15.5m.
The corporate costs are offset by internal cost recoveries from the Groups operating businesses and by sundry income which is not attributable to any of the Groups operations.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 87 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Segment information continued Year ended 31 December 2009 Depreciation including amortisation of Share of Segment website pre-tax results adjusted External Intersegment Total development from JVs and operating revenue revenue revenue costs associates profit loss m m m m m m Events 287.50.4287.9 3.6 0.887.2 Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring 161.40.5161.9 4.2 1.144.8 Data Services 179.1179.1 2.2 0.137.3 Online Marketing Services 53.853.8 0.7 0.6 Print Magazines 165.8 165.8 2.1 0.2 8.9 Total segments 847.60.9848.5 12.8 2.2178.8 Corporate costs 0.4 0.5 15.5 Internal cost recoveries and sundry income 7.9 Eliminations 0.9 0.9 847.6847.6 13.2 2.7171.2 Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisitions 26.8 Exceptional reorganisation and restructuring costs 16.5 Impairment charge 153.0 Share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates 0.7 Group operating loss 25.8 Interest income 1.8 Interest expense 14.8 Financing income 6.9 Financing income other 2.9 Financing expense other 6.7 Loss before tax 35.7 Revenue by products and services Revenue from external customers analysed by products and services is given in the above segment tables.
The Groups reportable segments are organised around products and services provided to external customers.
There are no revenues derived from a single external customer which are significant.
Geographic information Revenues from external customers Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 m m United Kingdom 129.4 129.6 Foreign countries United States and Canada 413.8 386.7 Europe 145.7 159.4 China 112.2 101.4 Emerging markets 54.4 40.3 Rest of the world 33.7 30.2 759.8 718.0 Total revenue 889.2 847.6 88 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 3.
Segment information continued Non-current assets As restated 2010 2009 m m 236.6 United Kingdom 262.3 Foreign countries 437.9 United States and Canada 684.3 248.7 Europe 244.0 15.2 China 29.1 42.1 Emerging markets 56.5 6.6 Rest of the world 6.9 750.5 1,020.8 987.1 Total non-current assets 1,283.1 Non-current assets for this purpose consist of goodwill, intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investments in joint ventures and associates and other investments.
Operating expenses 2010 2009 m m Amortisation of website development costs Note 13 0.8 0.9 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Note 14 15.6 12.3 Employee costs Note 6 313.7 308.8 Cost of inventories recognised as expense Note 17 14.2 8.1 Minimum lease payments recognised as an operating lease expense 29.4 24.8 Auditors remuneration 1.4 1.5 Publishing direct costs 89.2 86.8 Event production costs 123.9 109.1 Cost of advertising and promotion 56.8 44.4 Other cost of sales and administration costs 83.0 92.1 728.0 688.8 Included within other cost of sales and administration costs is a charge of 4.9m 2009: 4.0m in relation to the provisions for irrecoverability of trade receivables.
Auditors remuneration 2010 2009 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.3 0.3 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.7 0.6 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2 Tax services 0.2 0.4 1.4 1.5 Details of the Group policy on non-audit work undertaken by the Groups auditor is given in the Corporate Governance Report on page 68.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 89 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Employee costs 2010 2009 m m Wages and salaries 257.3 257.2 Social security costs 45.6 43.3 Directors and employees share-based payments 3.5 2.9 Pension costs defined contribution plans 6.4 4.4 Pension costs defined benefit plans Note 24 0.9 1.0 313.7 308.8 Employees The number of persons employed in the Group, including directors, was as follows: 2010 2010 2009 2009 Average Year end Average Year end Location United Kingdom 1,281 1,299 1,415 1,239 Americas 2,485 2,812 2,423 2,328 Europe and Middle East 729 723 747 736 Asia Pacific 1,646 1,756 1,509 1,512 6,141 6,590 6,094 5,815 Operating segments Events 1,320 1,463 1,099 1,058 Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring 1,057 1,084 1,062 1,051 Data Services 1,779 1,817 1,906 1,773 Online Marketing Services 539 566 503 478 Print Magazines 1,352 1,559 1,433 1,363 Corporate operations 94 101 91 92 6,141 6,590 6,094 5,815 Directors remuneration 2010 2009 m m Fees 0.6 0.6 Remuneration and benefits in kind 1.1 1.1 Bonuses 1.5 0.9 Contributions to pension schemes 0.1 0.2 3.3 2.8 Details of executive and non-executive directors remuneration and their interest in shares and options of the Company are shown within the directors remuneration report in the sections Directors remuneration, Directors pension provision, Awards under long term incentive plans and Directors interests in shares.
90 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 7.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are presented separately as, due to their nature or for the infrequency of the events giving rise to them, this allows shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance for the year, to facilitate comparison with prior periods, and to assess better the trends of financial performance.
2010 2009 m m Charged credited to operating profit loss Vacant property costs 1.1 3.9 Redundancy 3.0 10.5 Restructuring and business reorganisation costs 1.7 2.1 Exceptional reorganisation and restructuring costs 5.8 16.5 Acquisition costs on business combinations 6.1 Changes in estimates of contingent consideration 1.0 Exceptional items relating to acquisitions 5.1 Impairment of goodwill Note 12 149.8 Impairment of joint ventures and associates Note 15 1.9 Impairment of other investments Note 16 1.3 Impairment charge 153.0 Total charged to operating profit loss 10.9 169.5 Charged to profit loss before tax Fair value adjustment early settlement of interest rate swap contracts 6.7 Credited to profit after tax Exceptional taxation net credit 135.2 Total credited to profit after tax 135.2 Total charged to profit for the year 10.9 41.0 Charged credited to operating profit loss Year ended 31 December 2010 During 2010 the Group continued to manage its product portfolio actively, closing or exiting 13 print magazine titles and reducing the frequency of two others.
The Group also made further progress in the restructuring of a number of its businesses, particularly within the Data Services business.
The exceptional charge of 5.8m includes 3.0m relating to redundancy, 1.7m relating to restructuring and business reorganisation costs and 1.1m relating to vacant property.
Of the redundancy and restructuring costs charged, 3.2m has been incurred in 2010 and the balance is committed to be incurred in 2011.
The property costs of 1.1m relate to vacant property and other property costs, which will be incurred over the remainder of the lease terms.
Following the adoption of IFRS 3 revised 2008 from 1 January 2010, acquisition costs of 6.1m have been expensed, rather than included in the calculation of goodwill on acquisition as previously required by the standard.
Of this cost, 3.3m relates to the costs incurred in respect of the acquisition of Canon Communications LLC.
For the year ended 31 December 2010 a further exceptional credit of 1.0m has been recognised.
This is a net credit relating to the revision of the contingent consideration estimates for acquisitions made in 2010.
Details of the acquisitions made in the year ended 31 December 2010 are given in Note 29.
Year ended 31 December 2009 During 2009, UBM actively managed its product portfolio.
This included the closure and merging of a number of print titles, and a headcount reduction of approximately 500 people.
The exceptional charge of 16.5m includes 10.5m relating to redundancy, 2.1m relating to restructuring and business reorganisation costs and 3.9m relating to vacant property.
The redundancy and restructuring and business reorganisation costs were substantially incurred by 31 December 2010, and the amount relating to vacant property will be incurred over the remainder of the lease terms.
T otal impairment losses of 153.0m were recognised during the year, of which 149.8m relates to goodwill: details are given in Note 12.
The carrying value of investments in joint ventures and associates and other investments were impaired by 1.9m and 1.3m respectively.
Charged to profit loss before tax Year ended 31 December 2009 The fair value adjustment relates to early settlement of six interest rate swap contracts which were previously designated as cash flow hedges of expected payments under $300m of borrowing from the Groups 325m variable rate multi option facility.
Further details are given in Note 8.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 91 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Exceptional items continued Credited to profit after tax Year ended 31 December 2009 As a consequence of the resolution of a large number of outstanding taxation items, in various jurisdictions, there was a net exceptional tax credit of 135.2m.
Further details are given in Note 9.
Finance income expense 2010 2009 Before 2010 2010 Before 2009 2009 exceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total m m m m m m Interest income Cash and cash equivalents 0.7 0.7 1.8 1.8 Interest expense Borrowings and loans 18.2 18.2 13.2 13.2 Other 1.2 1.2 1.6 1.6 Total interest expense for financial liabilities not classified at fair value through profit or loss 19.4 19.4 14.8 14.8 Financing income Pension schemes 3.2 3.2 2.2 2.2 Foreign exchange gain on forward contracts 0.1 0.1 4.7 4.7 3.3 3.3 6.9 6.9 Financing income other Foreign exchange gain on forward contracts 1.0 1.0 Ineffectiveness on net investment hedges Note 21 1.6 1.6 Ineffectiveness on cash flow hedges Note 21 0.1 0.1 Fair value movement on interest rate swaps 8.9 8.9 1.1 1.1 Fair value movement on 250m bond 7.9 7.9 1.3 1.3 Ineffectiveness on fair value hedges Note 21 1.0 1.0 0.2 0.2 Other fair value adjustments 0.2 0.2 1.2 1.2 2.9 2.9 Financing expense other Foreign exchange loss on forward contracts 0.2 0.2 Ineffectiveness on net investment hedges Note 21 2.3 2.3 Fair value movement on interest rate swaps 3.0 3.0 Fair value movement on $350m bond 2.9 2.9 Ineffectiveness on fair value hedges Note 21 0.1 0.1 Fair value adjustments early settlement of interest rate swap contracts Note 21 6.7 6.7 2.6 2.6 6.7 6.7 Net finance expense 16.8 16.8 3.2 6.7 9.9 Foreign exchange gain on forward contracts within financing income represents realised gains on foreign currency contracts against profits of the overseas operations.
The ineffectiveness on fair value hedges represents the difference between the fair value movement of the interest rate swaps designated as hedge instruments and the fair value movement of the hedged portions of the 250m fixed rate sterling bonds and the $350m fixed rate dollar bonds Note 21.
In December 2009, the Group settled early six interest rate swap contracts which were previously designated as cash flow hedges of expected payments under $300m of borrowing from the Groups 325m variable rate multi option facility.
Following the issue of the 250m fixed rate sterling bonds in November 2009, that $300m of borrowings was repaid.
Three of the swap contracts totalling $150m were due to mature in January 2011 with the other three contracts totalling $150m were due to mature in July 2012.
The early settlement resulted in a loss of 6.7m which has been included as an exceptional item.
92 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 9.
Taxation Major components of income tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2010 are: 2010 2009 m m Consolidated income statement Current tax: Current tax charge 22.7 24.2 Exceptional taxation net credit 135.2 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 6.6 6.5 Income tax charge credit in the consolidated income statement 16.1 117.5 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Current tax Deferred tax Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income The amounts relating to current tax recognised in the statement of financial position are: 2010 2009 m m At 1 January 109.0 237.2 Current tax charge 22.7 24.2 Exceptional tax net credit 135.2 Tax paid 62.1 16.5 Foreign exchange and other movements 0.7 At 31 December 69.6 109.0 The Group does not expect the tax cash outflow in respect of this creditor in 2011 to exceed 10.0m.
At 1 January 2009 the current tax liability of 237.2m included an assessment of the Groups uncertain tax positions in various jurisdictions, including the dispute with HMRC in relation to the sale of the Regional Newspapers business in 1998 where the tax in dispute was estimated at 80m.
During 2009 the Group resolved a large number of outstanding items in various jurisdictions.
This included: i the dispute in relation to the sale of the Regional Newspapers business, for which a payment including interest of 36.4m was paid in March 2010: ii other UK issues for accounting periods up to 31 December 2007 for which a payment including interest of 10.1m was paid in March 2010: and iii other non-UK issues for which a payment of 3.0m was made during 2009.
The 46.5m paid in March 2010 was included in the current tax liabilities at 31 December 2009.
The amounts included in the current tax liability at 1 January 2009 in relation to these issues, over and above the amounts paid and payable above, were therefore released in 2009.
As a consequence there was a net exceptional tax credit of 135.2m.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 93 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
Taxation continued Factors affecting tax charge credit for the year A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to profit loss before tax at the statutory tax rate to tax expense for the year ended 31 December 2010 is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Profit loss before tax 115.5 35.7 Profit loss before tax multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in Republic of Ireland of 12.5% 2009: 12.5% 14.4 4.5 Effect of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 10.3 23.7 Tax effect of items not recognised in consolidated financial statements 11.5 9.1 Origination and reversal of temporary differences not recognised 20.0 9.5 Different tax rates on overseas earnings 25.3 19.3 Share of results from associates and joint ventures after tax 0.7 0.6 Non-taxable income 1.7 1.6 Exceptional taxation net credit 135.2 Income tax charge credit reported in the consolidated income statement 16.1 117.5 The Group has assessed the impact of changes in tax rates in various jurisdictions in which it operates and has determined that the changes do not have a significant impact on the current or future tax charges.
Deferred tax Deferred tax at 31 December 2010 relates to the following: Consolidated statement Consolidated of financial position income statement 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Intangible assets acquired 48.2 26.0 6.6 6.4 Other temporary differences 1.5 1.7 0.1 49.7 27.7 6.6 6.5 At 31 December 2010, there was no recognised deferred tax liability for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Groups subsidiaries as the Group has determined that undistributed profits of its subsidiaries will not be distributed in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised amount in aggregate to 5.6bn 2009: 5.3bn.
There are no income tax consequences to the Group arising from the payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders.
The movement in the net deferred tax liability was as follows: 2010 2009 m m Net liability at 1 January 27.7 35.2 Acquisition of subsidiaries Note 29 28.9 1.3 Amounts credited to net profit 6.6 6.5 Currency translation 0.3 2.3 Net liability at 31 December 49.7 27.7 The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets of 76.8m relating to deductible temporary differences and 134.9m of which 90.5m will expire between 2019 and 2030 relating to unused tax losses 2009: 59.2m and 105.5m of which 63.9m will expire between 2019 and 2029 respectively.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these amounts due to the unpredictability of future taxable profit streams.
The Group also has unrecognised deferred tax assets of 55.4m 2009: 52.3m relating to unused capital losses which can only be utilised against future capital gains.
94 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 10.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year reflecting the movements set out in Note 25.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year adjusted for the effects of dilutive options.
The Group has one category of dilutive potential ordinary shares: those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year.
The impact of dilutive securities in 2010 would be to increase weighted average shares by 4.2 million shares 2009: 3.4 million shares for employee share options.
The weighted average number of shares excludes ordinary shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan the ESOP and the Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust the QUEST.
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated on adjusted Group operating profit net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders, less amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items, impairment charges, deferred tax on amortisation of intangible assets, taxation relating to exceptional items and net financing expense other divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Exceptional items, net financing expense other, taxation related to exceptional items and deferred tax on amortisation of intangible assets are excluded from this calculation, as due to their nature and the infrequency of the events giving rise to them, separate presentation allows shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance for the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better the trends of financial performance.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 2010 2009 Weighted 2010 Weighted 2009 2010 average Earnings 2009 average Earnings Earnings no.
of shares per share Earnings no.
of shares per share m million pence m million pence Adjusted Group operating profit 171.8 171.2 Net interest expense 18.7 13.0 Financing income 3.3 6.9 Adjusted profit before tax 156.4 165.1 Taxation 23.5 24.8 Non-controlling interests 8.6 6.6 Adjusted earnings per share 124.3 243.4 51.0 133.7 243.1 55.1 Adjustments Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions 27.8 11.4 26.8 11.0 Deferred tax on amortisation of intangible assets 6.6 2.8 6.4 2.6 Adjustments in respect of non-tax exceptional items 10.9 4.6 169.5 69.8 Tax exceptional item 135.2 55.6 Net financing expense other 1.4 0.5 3.8 1.6 Basic earnings per share 90.8 243.4 37.3 75.2 243.1 30.9 Dilution Options 4.2 0.6 3.4 0.4 Diluted earnings per share 90.8 247.6 36.7 75.2 246.5 30.5 Adjusted earnings per share as above 124.3 243.4 51.0 133.7 243.1 55.1 Options 4.2 0.8 3.4 0.9 Diluted adjusted earnings per share 124.3 247.6 50.2 133.7 246.5 54.2 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 95 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Dividends 2010 2009 m m Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares Second interim dividend for 2009 of 18.20p 2008 of 18.20p 44.3 44.2 Interim dividend for 2010 of 6.00p 2009: 6.00p 14.6 14.6 58.9 58.8 Proposed not recognised as a liability at 31 December Equity dividends on ordinary shares Second interim dividend for 2010 of 19.00p 2009: 18.20p 46.2 44.3 The proposed second interim dividend has not been recognised as a liability in these financial statements.
Pursuant to the Dividend Access Plan DAP arrangements put in place as part of the Scheme of Arrangement, shareholders in the Company are able to elect to receive their dividends from a UK source the DAP election.
Shareholders who held 50,000 or fewer shares i on the date of admission of the Companys shares to the London Stock Exchange and ii in the case of shareholders who did not own the shares at that time, on the first dividend record date after they become shareholders in the Company, unless they elect otherwise, will be deemed to have elected to receive their dividends under the DAP arrangements.
Shareholders who hold more than 50,000 shares and who wish to receive their dividends from a UK source must make a DAP election.
All elections remain in force indefinitely unless revoked.
Unless shareholders have made a DAP election, or are deemed to have made a DAP election, dividends will be received from an Irish source and will be taxed accordingly.
Goodwill Goodwill was historically recorded under the seven business units UBM T echnology, UBM Medica, UBM Asia, UBM Information, Commonwealth Business Media, RISI and Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring, which have comprised the Groups cash-generating units CGUs, and represented the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill was monitored for internal management purposes.
During 2008 and 2009, UBM reorganised the operations of UBM T echnology, UBM Information and Commonwealth Business Media into a number of smaller business units, resulting in UBM T echnology being restructured into four business units, UBM Information into three business units and Commonwealth Business Media into two.
As a consequence of these actions, the Group identified 13 separate business units, of which 12 operate in a combination of Events, Data Services, Online Marketing Services and Print Magazines, with PR Newswire being the sole business unit involved in the Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring segment.
However, during 2009, the seven historical business units remained the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill was monitored for management purposes.
Goodwill was not sub-allocated to the three of the then reportable segments, being Events, Data Services and Online, and Print Magazines.
Accordingly the impairment review in 2009 was performed at the level of the seven historical business units.
During 2010, following further segregation of cash flows, each of the 13 business units was considered to comprise several individual CGUs to which goodwill is allocated and monitored by management.
The goodwill previously recorded under the seven CGUs was allocated into 31 separate CGUs such that for each of the 12 business units excluding PR Newswire, there is an allocation of goodwill across the relevant operating segments of Events, Data Services, Online Marketing Services and Print Magazines.
It should be noted that not all business units are active in all segments.
The allocation was based on an assessment of the relative fair values of the 31 CGUs to which the goodwill relates, determined using forecasted EBITA multiples that were considered appropriate for each sector and segment.
For reporting purposes, the CGUs have been aggregated into the reportable segments, as shown in the table on the next page.
The 31 CGUs have been individually tested for impairment in 2010.
Goodwill and other assets held at 31 December 2009 have not been realigned to the Groups reportable segments.
96 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 12.
The carrying value of goodwill attributed to these CGUs at 31 December 2010 was 168.9m and 292.5m respectively.
Within the aggregate Data Services goodwill above, the Group considers the UBM Medica Data Services CGU to be significant.
The carrying value of UBM Medica Data Services goodwill at 31 December 2010 was 196.0m.
The Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring CGU as reported above is also considered to be significant.
31 December 2009 as restated Targeting, Commonwealth Distribution UBM UBM UBM UBM Business and Technology Medica Asia Information Media RISI Monitoring Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2009 300.3 321.5 19.7 212.9 104.1 5.0 75.7 1,039.2 Acquisitions Note 29 1.5 3.4 2.5 0.4 0.5 4.1 8.4 Transfer to joint venture Note 29 2.5 2.5 Transfers 0.2 4.6 4.8 Currency translation 29.9 25.0 1.9 1.5 8.9 7.4 74.6 At 31 December 2009 268.7  72.4970.5 Impairment At 1 January 2009 Charge for the year 47.0 67.0 35.8 149.8 At 31 December 2009 47.0 67.035.8 149.8 Carrying value At 1 January 2009 300.3 321.5 19.7 212.9 104.1 5.0 75.7 1,039.2 At 31 December 2009 221.7  72.4820.7 The amounts shown for the year ended 31 December 2009 have been restated to reflect the finalisation of acquisition accounting adjustments relating to certain acquisitions made in 2009 Note 1.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 97 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Goodwill continued Impairment tests for goodwill A summary of the goodwill allocation to the Groups CGUs is given in the above tables.
Management tests goodwill annually for impairment as at 30 September each year or more frequently if there are indicators that goodwill may be impaired.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is the higher of a CGUs fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In calculating the fair value less costs to sell and value in use of its CGUs, management is assisted by the work of external advisors.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is not re-computed annually by management if all of the following criteria are met: the component assets and liabilities of the CGU have not changed significantly since the last recoverable amount calculation: the previous assessment of recoverable amount exceeded the carrying amount of the CGU by a substantial margin: and based on an analysis of events that have occurred and circumstances that have changed since the most recent recoverable amount calculation, the likelihood that a current recoverable amount determination of the CGU would be less than its carrying value is remote.
31 December 2010 Due to the changes in the CGUs used to determine impairment losses detailed on the previous page, the above criteria have not been applied to the financial performance and position of the new CGUs at 30 September 2010.
Fair value less costs to sell testing has been performed for all of the Groups CGUs for the 2010 goodwill impairment test.
Additional value in use testing has also been performed for three of the CGUs: UBM Medica Data Services, UBM T echWeb Events and UBM Aviation Data Services.
Following the completion of the fair value exercise 'the acquisition accounting', goodwill of 150.4m recognised on acquisition of Canon Communications LLC has been allocated to three CGUs: UBM Live Events 97.3m, UBM Electronics Online Marketing Services 37.0m and UBM Electronics Print Magazines 16.1m.
The acquisition completed on 21 October 2010 and the acquisition accounting was performed subsequent to the annual impairment testing date.
A further impairment review was not performed on these three CGUs as there was significant headroom on each CGU at 30 September 2010, and there are no indicators of impairment on the goodwill attributable to Canon.
31 December 2009 In 2009, management considered that three CGUs Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring, UBM Asia and RISI met all three of the carry forward criteria, and the results of prior year calculations of the recoverable amounts of these CGUs, based on fair value less costs to sell, were rolled forward for the purpose of the 2009 impairment test.
Fair value less costs to sell testing was performed in 2009 for all other CGUs, with additional value in use testing performed for UBM T echnology, UBM Medica and Commonwealth Business Media.
Impairment charges recognised The impairment charges in respect of goodwill recognised in the consolidated income statement as a separate line item within operating profit loss are as follows: 2010 2009 Cash generating unit Segment m m UBM Technology Print Magazines 47.0 UBM Medica Print Magazines 53.3 UBM Medica Events 13.7 67.0 Commonwealth Business Media Print Magazines 24.7 Commonwealth Business Media Data Services 11.1 35.8 149.8 In 2010, the impairment charges recognised in the year ended 31 December 2009 have been allocated to each of the reportable segments.
UBM Technology During the year ended 31 December 2009, the goodwill in relation to UBM T echnology was impaired by 47.0m, mainly due to the continued decline in print revenue and operating profit within the technology sector.
Over the past few years, UBM has actively managed the print magazine portfolio to adapt to the long term structural shifts in the media environment.
A number of titles had either been discontinued, consolidated or the frequency of publication reduced, resulting in a significant decline in print-based revenue and operating profit, further accelerated in 2009 by the difficult economic climate.
UBM Medica The goodwill in relation to UBM Medica was impaired by 67.0m during the year ended 31 December 2009.
This was primarily due to reduced print magazine revenue and operating profit.
A number of UBM Medica titles were discontinued in 2009, resulting in a significant decline in print-based revenue and operating profit, further accelerated by the reduction in General Practitioner advertising revenue reflecting the difficult economic climate.
In addition, regulatory change in the US resulted in reduced spending by the pharmaceutical companies for Continuing Medical Education, which resulted in the cancellation of a number of planned meeting series.
98 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 12.
Goodwill continued Commonwealth Business Media During the year ended 31 December 2009, the goodwill in relation to Commonwealth Business Media was impaired by 35.8m.
As with UBM T echnology and UBM Medica, the charge was mainly attributable to the decline in print magazine and print directory revenue and operating profit.
Both magazines and directories within the trade and transportation sector were impacted by the long term structural shift away from print media towards digital and face-to-face media.
This decline was accelerated in 2009 as a result of the difficult economic environment, particularly in the US.
Financial results of cash generating units The table below shows the revenue and adjusted operating profit measures of each CGU tested for impairment in the prior year.
The amounts are shown to provide additional financial information in respect of the financial performance of those CGUs and as a context for the reasons for impairment in 2009.
The same measures for the Groups reportable segments of Events, Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring, Data Services, Online Marketing Services and Print Magazines and are set out in Note 3.
31 December 2009 Targeting, Commonwealth Distribution UBM UBM UBM UBM Business and Technology Medica Asia Information Media RISI Monitoring Total m m m m m m m m External revenue 162.2 178.7 117.6 154.1 58.2 15.4 161.4 847.6 Inter-CGU revenue 0.4 0.5 0.9 Total CGU revenue 162.2 178.7 118.0 154.1 58.2 15.4 161.9 848.5 0.9 Eliminations Total revenue 847.6 1 CGU Adjusted operating profit 15.1 28.4 39.7 38.5 10.5 1.8 44.8 178.8 7.6 Other corporate 1 Total adjusted operating profit 171.2 1 Adjusted operating profit represents operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items, impairment charges and share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates.
Value in use impairment test The recoverable amounts for UBM Medica Data Services, UBM T echW eb Events and UBM Aviation Data Services were determined using value in use during 2010.
The value in use tests for each CGU have been based on the estimated future cash flows which are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects managements estimate of the CGUs weighted average cost of capital.
Equivalent testing was performed in 2009 for UBM T echnology, UBM Medica and Commonwealth Business Media.
The following key assumptions used by management for the value in use calculation for the above mentioned CGUs are considered to be most sensitive: Forecast EBITA Forecast EBITA used in the 2010 and 2009 tests is based upon the financial projections approved by management covering a five year period.
The projections are determined by using a combination of past experience, long term trends, industry forecasts and management estimates.
Managements estimates and long term trends reflect the following factors: The continued rebalancing of the product portfolio, away from print to digital and face-to-face media.
Margin improvements due to restructuring and business reorganisation plans, that have taken place during 2009 and 2010 within each CGU.
Each restructuring programme aims to either rebalance the product portfolios to better meet the future needs of customers and audiences, or to ensure the support platforms and divisional structures are cost efficient.
This was undertaken by a combination of cost reductions and investment in organic product development and acquisitions.
The EBITA projections take into account these margin improvements and do not include any cash flows relating to restructuring not provided at the time of the annual impairment test.
Margin improvements due to significant investment upgrading the IT infrastructure within the Data Services business during 2010.
Management has considered industry specific growth rates in their calculation of the five year EBITA forecast, together with expectations specific to the healthcare, trade and transportation, technology and aviation industries.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 99 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Goodwill continued Discount rate The discount rate for each CGU in 2010 is based on the risk-free rate for 20 year government bonds in the respective market, adjusted for a risk premium to reflect the increased risk of investing in equities, the systematic risk of the specific CGU and taking into account the specific territories in which the CGU operates.
The increased risk of investing in equities is assessed using an equity market risk premium which reflects the increased return required over and above a risk free rate by an investor who is investing in the whole market.
Management has used an equity market risk premium based on studies by independent economists and historic equity market risk premiums.
The risk adjustment for the systematic risk, beta, of each CGU reflects the specific risk relating to that CGU relative to the market as a whole.
This has been determined by management using an average of the betas of comparable companies within respective sectors.
The discount rates used in the 2009 testing were determined as above but also adjusted to reflect the relative size of each CGU.
In 2010, no adjustment has been made as this is already reflected in the cash flow forecasts.
Perpetuity growth rates The cash flows for each specific CGU subsequent to the approved budget period are based upon the weighted average projected real gross domestic product growth rate in 2014 of each of the territories in which the CGUs operate 2009: 2013.
Growth rates for each territory have been weighted based on contribution to 2011 budgeted revenue 2009: contribution to 2010 budgeted revenue.
The key assumptions for discount rate and perpetuity growth rate used in the value in use calculations are as follows: 2010 2009 Pre-tax Perpetuity Pre-tax Perpetuity discount rate growth rate discount rate growth rate UBM Medica Data Services 10.5% 3.5% n a n a UBM TechWeb Events 11.5% 3.5% n a n a UBM Aviation Data Services 11.9% 2.8% n a n a UBM Technology n a n a 12.0% 2.5% UBM Medica n a n a 12.6% 2.6% Commonwealth Business Media n a n a 13.3% 2.3% 2010 sensitivities The table below shows the goodwill in each CGU tested under value in use, the headroom determined and the reasonably possible changes needed in isolation in each of the above assumptions that would cause the recoverable amount of each CGU to be reduced to a level comparable with its carrying value.
Other than the changes in the table below, management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above assumptions would reduce the headroom to nil.
Change needed in assumption to reduce recoverable amount to carrying value Goodwill Headroom 30 above EBITA Pre-tax Perpetuity September carrying five year discount rate growth rate 2010 amount forecast percentage percentage m m % points points 196.3 36.2 15.0 2.1 1.5 UBM Medica Data Services 167.9 16.5 9.0 1.5 2.0 UBM TechWeb Events 26.9 18.0 n a n a n a UBM Aviation Data Services 100 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 12.
Goodwill continued 2009 sensitivities Following the impairment charge recognised in 2009, the estimated recoverable amount of the UBM T echnology, UBM Medica and Commonwealth Business Media CGUs were equal to their carrying value at 31 December 2009.
Consequently, any adverse change in key assumption would, in isolation, cause a further impairment loss to be recognised.
The table below shows the increase decrease in the aggregate impairment loss of a reasonably possible change in each assumption: UBM UBM Commonwealth Technology Medica Business Media m m m EBITA forecasts Decrease by 10% 19.0 22.9 7.5 Increase by 10% 19.0 22.9 7.5 Pre-tax discount rate Increase by 20 basis points 3.8 4.1 1.3 Decrease by 20 basis points 3.9 4.3 1.3 Perpetuity growth rate Increase by 0.5 percentage point 7.0 7.5 2.2 Decrease by 0.5 percentage point 6.3 6.8 2.0 Fair value less costs to sell impairment test The recoverable amounts of all CGUs have been determined using fair value less costs to sell.
The estimate of fair value less costs to sell is based on the best information available and refers to the amount at which the CGU could be sold in a current transaction between willing parties.
The valuation method is based on an earnings multiple approach using revenue and EBITA multiples obtained from comparable businesses and transactions in comparable businesses in the professional media sector.
A discount to the multiples from the peer group has been applied due to the smaller size of the CGUs compared to the peer group.
The multiples range from 0.1 to 3.3 for revenue and 0.7 to 12.3 for EBITA.
The calculation uses actual sales and EBITA results for 2010 and forecast sales and EBITA for 2011, based upon financial budgets approved by management.
Costs to sell are estimated to be 3% of the value of a CGU, based on experience of prior disposals by the Group.
In the determination of fair value less costs to sell, the calculations of fair value are most sensitive to the precedent transaction multiples used.
Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would not cause an impairment to be recognised in respect of each CGU.
In 2009, an impairment test for the UBM Information CGU was performed under the fair value less costs to sell methodology, as described above.
The multiples ranged from 1.6 to 2.2 for revenue and 7.5 to 9.5 for EBITA.
The calculation used actual sales and EBITA results for 2009 and forecast sales and EBITA for 2010, based upon financial budgets approved by management.
Costs to sell were estimated to be 3% of the value of a CGU, based on experience of prior disposals by the Group.
In the determination of fair value less costs to sell in 2009, the calculations of fair value were most sensitive to the precedent transaction multiples used.
Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would not cause an impairment to be recognised in respect of UBM Information.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 101 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
For intangible assets arising on acquisitions, the associated amortisation charge is included in a separate line item in the income statement since these charges do not form part of adjusted Group operating profit as defined below the income statement.
The average remaining useful lives for the brands and customer contracts and relationships intangible assets is seven years and five years respectively 2009: seven years and four years respectively.
The average remaining useful lives for the other classes of intangible assets is seven years 2009: six years.
The acquisitions amounts shown for the year ended 31 December 2009 have been restated to reflect the finalisation of acquisition accounting adjustments relating to certain acquisitions made in 2009 Note 1.
102 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 14.
Property, plant and equipment 31 December 2010 Plant, Land and machinery buildings and vehicles Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 40.6 113.0 153.6 Additions 5.3 10.7 16.0 Acquisitions Note 29 0.3 1.8 2.1 Disposals 0.1 1.1 1.2 Currency translation 1.2 2.8 1.6 At 31 December 2010 44.9 127.2 172.1 Depreciation At 1 January 2010 25.3 90.1 115.4 Charge for the year 1.5 14.1 15.6 Disposals 0.2 1.0 0.8 Currency translation 1.4 2.1 0.7 At 31 December 2010 25.6 105.3 130.9 Carrying value 15.3 22.9 38.2 At 1 January 2010 At 31 December 2010 19.3 21.9 41.2 31 December 2009 Plant, Land and machinery buildings and vehicles Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2009 43.2 113.5 156.7 Additions 1.4 13.1 14.5 Acquisitions Note 29 0.1 0.1 Disposals 2.3 5.4 7.7 Currency translation 1.7 8.3 10.0 At 31 December 2009 40.6 113.0 153.6 Depreciation At 1 January 2009 27.2 89.4 116.6 Charge for the year 1.6 10.7 12.3 Disposals 2.2 4.8 7.0 Currency translation 1.3 5.2 6.5 At 31 December 2009 25.3 90.1 115.4 Carrying value At 1 January 2009 16.0 24.1 40.1 At 31 December 2009 15.3 22.9 38.2 Land and buildings at net book amount comprise: 2010 2009 m m Freehold 0.7 0.7 Long leasehold 1.1 0.9 Leasehold improvements 17.5 13.7 Carrying value 19.3 15.3 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 103 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Investments in joint ventures and associates a Carrying amount Joint Joint ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 m m m m m m At 1 January 12.9 4.1 17.0 14.7 9.1 23.8 Additions 1.1 1.1 Acquisition of controlling interest Note 29 0.3 0.3 Share of profit after tax 2.5 0.3 2.8 1.9 0.1 2.0 Share of items taken to other comprehensive income 3.9 3.9 Dividends received 0.6 0.6 1.5 1.5 Impairment charge Note 7 1.0 0.9 1.9 Disposals 0.6 0.6 Currency translation 0.4 0.4 1.2 0.3 1.5 At 31 December 14.6 5.2 19.8 12.9 4.1 17.0 On 1 January 2010, the Group entered into joint venture arrangement with GML Enterprise Thailand Co. Limited to own a 49.0% interest in GML Exhibition Thailand Co. Limited, an events business in the defence and securities industries operating in Thailand.
On 15 September 2010, the Group acquired a 36% equity holding in Beijing Zhong Wen Fa International Cultural Exchange Co. Limited, an industry events business, for cash consideration of $1.6m 1.0m.
Events organised include the China International Digital Content Expo DigiChina.
The Group accounts for Beijing Zhong Wen Fa International Cultural Exchange Co. Limited as an associate as it exercises significant influence through representation of two out of five members on the Board of Directors, participates in policy-making processes and provides essential technical information.
On 29 November 2010, the Group disposed of the CMP W eka Verlag GmbH joint venture for total consideration of 2.0m 1.7m.
Profit on disposal of 1.1m has been recognised within Other operating income.
Investments in joint ventures and associates at 31 December 2010 include goodwill of 7.6m and 6.8m respectively 2009: 8.3m and 6.0m respectively.
Investments in joint ventures and associates include amortisation of intangible assets of nil 2009: nil.
b Joint ventures The following represents the aggregate amount of the Groups interests in joint ventures assets, liabilities, income and expenses: 2010 2009 m m Current assets 7.1 7.5 Non-current assets 3.3 0.2 Current liabilities 2.6 3.2 Non-current liabilities 1.1 Income 8.8 11.5 Expenses 6.2 9.6 The principal joint ventures at 31 December 2010 are as follows: Country of Share Type of incorporation Class of holding Accounting Company Segment business and operation shares held interest year end ANP Pers Support BV Targeting, Distribution News Netherlands Ordinary 50.0% 31 December and Monitoring Distribution eMedia Asia Limited Events, Online Exhibitions, Barbados Asia Ordinary 39.9% 31 December Marketing Services, publications and Print Magazines and online GML Exhibitions Thailand Co Ltd Events Exhibitions Thailand Ordinary 49.0% 31 December Guangzhou Beauty Fair Events Exhibitions China Ordinary 27.5% 31 December Securex Events Exhibitions South Africa Ordinary 50.0% 31 December 104 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 15.
Investments in joint ventures and associates continued c Associates The following represents the aggregate amount of the Groups interests in associates assets, liabilities, income and expenses: 2010 2009 m m Current assets 8.9 10.0 Non-current assets 9.5 7.1 Current liabilities 9.1 10.3 Non-current liabilities 11.6 8.8 Income 35.6 36.8 Expenses 35.3 36.7 The following represents the summarised total financial information of the Groups associates assets, liabilities, income and expenses: 2010 2009 m m Current assets 46.0 52.8 Non-current assets 53.4 39.2 Current liabilities 48.3 54.8 Non-current liabilities 60.3 45.9 Income 187.5 195.9 Expenses 187.1 196.0 Details of the Groups associates at 31 December 2010 are as follows: Country of Class Share Type of incorporation of shares holding Accounting Company Segment business Registration held interest year end Axilog S. A.
Data Services Publications France Ordinary 25.1% 31 December Beijing Zhong Wen Fa International Cultural Events Exhibitions China Ordinary 36.0% 31 December Exchange Co. Limited eXalt Solutions Inc Data Services Web-based United States A preferred 25.0% 31 December sales services Independent Television News Limited Corporate Operations Broadcasting Great Britain Ordinary 20.0% 31 December PA Group Limited Corporate Operations News distribution Great Britain Ordinary 17.0% 31 December 16.
Other Investments 2010 2009 m m Unlisted shares 0.6 0.6 The unlisted shares are measured at cost less any provision for impairment as there is no active market for these investments and their fair values cannot be reliably measured.
The Group classifies its other investments as available for sale.
During 2009, other investments were impaired by 1.3m.
Inventories 2010 2009 m m Raw materials and consumables paper stock 2.2 2.3 Work in progress 5.4 5.1 Finished goods and goods for resale 0.2 0.3 Total inventories 7.8 7.7 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 14.2m 2009: 8.1m.
The total write-down of inventories included in cost of sales is nil 2009: nil.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 105 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Trade and other receivables 2010 2009 m m Trade receivables 143.5 121.9 Less: provision for impairment on receivables 6.0 4.7 Trade receivables net 137.5 117.2 Other receivables 32.4 21.9 Prepayments and accrued income 34.2 27.2 Pension prepayments defined contribution schemes 4.5 3.5 208.6 169.8 Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2010 2009 m m At 1 January 4.7 6.9 Provision for receivables impairment 4.9 4.0 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 3.7 4.3 Acquisitions 0.4 Currency translation 0.1 2.3 At 31 December 6.0 4.7 The creation of provision for impaired trade receivables have been included in other cost of sales and administration costs in the income statement Note 5.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
There is no provision for other receivables.
As of 31 December 2010, trade receivables of 6.2m 2009: 4.7m were impaired.
The amount of the provision was 6.0m at the balance sheet date 2009: 4.7m.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Under three months 2.2 1.4 Three to six months 4.0 3.3 6.2 4.7 As of 31 December 2010, trade receivables of 29.2m 2009: 31.2m were past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Under three months 20.5 25.9 Three to six months 8.7 5.3 29.2 31.2 The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
Financial assets 2010 2009 m m Financial assets non current Available for sale financial assets 0.6 0.6 Interest rate swaps 6.8 7.4 0.6 Financial assets current Forward currency contracts 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.3 106 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 19.
Financial assets continued The Group classifies all its derivative financial instruments as fair value through profit and loss.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
Further details are given in Note 21.
The values of the derivatives are calculated by the external counterparties to the contracts and verified using present value of future cash flows at discount rates implied by the forward curve.
The Group only enters into derivative contracts with major banks of high quality credit standing and with which it has a lending relationship.
Cash and short term deposits 2010 2009 m m Cash at bank and in hand 37.7 61.9 Short term deposits 88.2 97.0 125.9 158.9 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months and earn interest at the respective short term deposit rates.
The Group classifies all its cash and short term deposits as loans and receivables.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2010 is 125.9m 2009: 158.9m.
The majority of the Groups surplus cash is deposited with major banks with rating of A Standard and Poors or A2 Moodys.
For the purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December: 2010 2009 m m Cash at bank and in hand 37.7 61.9 Short term deposits 88.2 97.0 125.9 158.9 Bank overdrafts Note 21 0.1 0.1 125.8 158.8 20.
Financial liabilities 2010 2009 m m Current Forward currency contracts Note 21 0.1 0.4 Bank overdrafts 0.1 0.1 75m floating rate reset bonds 75.0 Current instalments due on bank loans 0.2 0.2 75.4 0.7 Non-current Interest rate swaps Note 21 3.0 2.1 Forward currency contracts Note 21 23.2 8.4 Put options over non-controlling interests Note 21 8.5 $350m fixed rate dollar bonds 2020 215.4 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 254.0 245.8 75m floating rate reset bonds 75.0 Non-current instalments due on bank loans 65.8 64.2 569.9 395.5 The Group classifies all its derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit and loss and its bank overdrafts, bank loans, fixed rate bonds and floating rate reset bonds as financial liabilities at amortised cost.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability fair value hedge or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
The values of the derivatives are calculated by the external counterparties to the contracts and verified using the present value of future cash flows at discount rates implied by the forward curve.
The Group enters into derivative contracts only with major banks of high quality credit standing.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 107 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial liabilities continued Put options over non-controlling interests Put option agreements that allow non-controlling interest shareholders to require the Group to purchase the non-controlling interest are treated as derivatives over equity instruments in accordance with IAS 39.
They are recorded at fair value based on discounted cash flows models as no observable market data is available.
The terms of the put options over non-controlling interests granted during 2010 in relation to Navalshore and Sienna Interlink are detailed in Note 29.
Bonds $350m fixed rate dollar bonds due 2020 On 3 November 2010, the Group issued $350m fixed rate dollar bonds at 98.295% of par.
The bonds pay a 5.75% coupon on a semi annual basis on 3 May and 3 November until maturity in 2020.
The coupon of 5.75% would be increased in the event the Groups long term credit rating were to be reduced below investment grade by either Standard and Poors below BBBor Moodys below Baa3.
The increase to the coupon would be 0.25% per ratings notch per agency.
The proceeds were primarily used to repay outstanding bank debt drawn to finance the acquisition of Canon.
The Group entered into interest rates swaps so that $150m of the bonds has been swapped into floating rate US dollars, at a rate of US LIBOR plus 2.63% further details in Note 21.
250m fixed rate sterling bonds due 2016 On 23 November 2009 the Group issued 250m fixed rate sterling bonds at 99.384% of par.
The bonds pay an annual interest coupon of 6.5% on 23 November until maturity in 2016.
The coupon of 6.5% would be increased by 1.25% in the event the Groups long term credit rating were to be reduced below investment grade by either Standard and Poors below BBBor Moodys below Baa3.
The proceeds were used to repay outstanding bank debt.
The Group entered into currency and interest rate swaps so that approximately 150m has been swapped into floating rate US dollars, at a rate of US LIBOR plus 3.14% further details in Note 21.
The Group also entered into currency swaps so that approximately 100m has been swapped into fixed rate US dollars, at a rate of 6.34% further details in Note 21.
75m floating rate reset bonds The bonds bear interest at six month LIBOR plus 0.68% until 26 September 2011.
Thereafter the interest rate will be 4.70% plus a credit spread which will be reset every three years by auction.
Bondholders may put the bonds back to the issuer, at par, on 26 September 2011 and on each triennial interest reset date thereafter.
The Group may call the bonds at fair market value on interest payment dates from September 2011.
If not put or called, the bonds will mature in 2028.
Further details of the fair value of the bonds at 31 December 2010 are provided in Note 21.
Bank loans 2010 2009 m m 53.1m floating rate reset loans 2012 45.5 47.2 325m variable rate multi option facility 2012 20.3 16.8 Other 0.2 0.4 66.0 64.4 53.1m floating rate reset loans due 2012 These loans bear interest at six month LIBOR plus 1.80% until 16 March 2012.
Thereafter the interest rate will be 4.16% plus a credit spread which will be reset every three years by auction.
Lenders may put the loans back to the Group, at par, on 16 March 2012 and on each triennial interest reset date thereafter.
The Group may call the loans at fair market value on interest payment dates from March 2012.
If not put or called, the loans will mature in 2024.
Further details of the fair value of the loan at 31 December 2010 are provided in Note 21.
325m variable rate multi option facility due 2012 This 325m multi-currency unsecured revolving facility is repayable on 27 July 2012 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.325%.
Drawings under the facility are as follows: 2010 2010 2009 2009 Currency of borrowing m m m m Canadian dollar 31.5 20.3 Japanese yen 2,530.0 16.8 20.3 16.8 The undrawn portion of this facility is 304.7m 2009: 308.2m.
108 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 21.
Financial instruments An explanation of the Groups financial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies and the Groups policies on capital management are set out in the discussion of Treasury policies on pages 42 to 43 in the Financial Review.
Fair values The table below compares the carrying amounts and fair values of all the Groups financial instruments.
Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value 2010 2010 2009 2009 m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 125.9 125.9 158.9 158.9 Available for sale investments 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 Interest rate swaps 6.8 6.8 Forward currency contracts 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 133.4 133.4 159.8 159.8 Financial liabilities Interest rate swaps 3.0 3.0 2.1 2.1 Forward currency contracts 23.3 23.3 8.8 8.8 Put options over non-controlling interests 8.5 8.5 Bank overdrafts 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 $350m fixed rate dollar bonds due 2020 215.4 213.7 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 254.0 268.6 245.8 255.0 75m floating rate reset bonds 75.0 84.0 75.0 78.9 53.1m floating rate reset loans 2012 45.5 49.2 47.2 49.1 325m variable rate multi option facility 2012 20.3 20.3 16.8 16.8 Other 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.4 Contingent consideration on post 1 January 2010 acquisitions 26.5 26.5 671.8 697.4 396.2 411.2 The variable rate multi option facility due 2012, the 250m fixed rate sterling bonds due 2016 and the $350m fixed rate dollar bonds due 2020 are subject to the hedging disclosed below.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts are calculated by the external counterparties to the contracts and verified using present value of future cash flows at discount rates implied by the forward curve.
The fair values of put options over non-controlling interests and contingent considerations on post 1 January 2010 acquisitions are based on discounted cash flows models as no observable market data is available.
Market values have been used to calculate the fair value of the $350m fixed rate dollar bonds due 2020 and the 250m fixed rate sterling bonds due 2016.
The fair values of the 75m floating rate reset bonds and the 53.1m floating rate reset loans are calculated by external counterparties to the debt.
The fair value of cash at bank and deposits approximates to their book value due to their short maturity.
For all other financial assets and liabilities the carrying amount has been used.
The 75m floating rate reset bonds and 53.1m floating rate reset loans 2012 are subject to put and call options, as detailed in Note 20.
Since the onset of the 2008 2009 credit crisis, long term swap rates have fallen below the reset interest rates of 4.70% and 4.16%.
This, combined with a material increase in market volatility, has increased the fair value of the bonds and loans as at 31 December 2010 to 84.0m and 57.3m respectively.
If UBM exercises its call options and repays the instrument, the early unwind at the current valuation would result in a loss of 9.0m crystallising on the bond and 4.2m crystallising on the loans.
Under IAS 39 the losses would be recognised as a financial expense in the income statement.
From the 31 December 2010 valuation, assuming all other variables remain constant the fair value of the bonds increases by approximately 0.8m for a 0.1% fall in the 17 year swap rate.
From the 31 December 2010 valuation, assuming all other variables remain constant, the fair value of the loans increases by approximately 0.5m for every 0.1% fall in the 12 year swap rate.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 109 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Financial instruments continued Fair value hierarchy The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly e. g. prices or indirectly e. g. derived from prices.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
31 December 2010 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 m m m m Assets measured at fair value Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps hedged 6.8 6.8 Forward currency contracts not hedged 0.1 0.1 6.9 6.9 Liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 3.0 Interest rate swaps hedged 3.0 23.2 Forward currency contracts hedged 23.2 0.1 Forward currency contracts not hedged 0.1 8.5 Put options over non-controlling interests 8.5 Contingent consideration on post 1 January 2010 acquisitions 26.5 26.5 26.3 35.0 61.3 During the reporting period ended 31 December 2010, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 measurements.
The fair value of interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts are determined by using valuation techniques as they are not traded in an active market.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
As all the significant inputs required to fair value these instruments are observable, the instruments are included in Level 2.
The fair values of post 1 January 2010 acquisitions have been determined by reference to the projected financial performance in relation to the specific contingent consideration criteria for each acquisition Note 29.
Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements: Contingent consideration Put options on post over non- 1 January controlling 2010 interests acquisitions m m At 1 January 2010 Additions 8.5 26.5 At 31 December 2010 8.5 26.5 110 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 21.
Financial instruments continued 31 December 2009 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 m m m m Assets measured at fair value Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Forward currency contracts 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 2.1 2.1 Forward currency contracts 8.8 8.8 10.9 10.9 During the reporting period ending 31 December 2009, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 measurements.
Hedges Cash flow hedges 2010 2009 m m Interest rate swaps derivative financial liabilities Forward currency contracts Interest rate swaps At 31 December 2010 the Group had no interest rate swap contracts held as cash flow hedges.
Cash flow hedges existing at 2009 had no material impact on other comprehensive income or profit and loss during 2010.
At 31 December 2009, the Group held an interest swap contract designated as a hedge of expected payments under 2,100m of borrowing from the Group's 325m variable rate multi option facility.
Under this swap contract, the Group will receive three month yen LIBOR and pay 1.13% until March 2010.
This hedge was assessed to be highly effective at 31 December 2009 with the ineffective portion of the hedging contracts of 0.1m transferred to financing expense other.
The fair value of this derivative at 31 December 2009 was less than 0.1m.
During 2009, six interest rate swap contacts which were previously designated as hedges of expected payments under $300m of borrowing from the Groups 325m variable rate multi option facility were settled early in December 2009 following the issue of the 250m fixed rate sterling bonds and repayment of $300m of floating rate debt.
The loss on early settlement is included within financing expense other Note 8.
Forward currency contracts At 31 December 2010 the Group had no forward currency hedging contracts held as cash flow hedges.
At 31 December 2009, the Group had one forward currency hedging contract designated as a hedge of 0.6m of sterling equivalent customer receipts in US dollar.
This hedge was assessed to be highly effective at 31 December 2009.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 111 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Financial instruments continued Net investment in foreign operations 2010 2009 m m Forward currency contracts derivative financial assets 0.1 0.1 Forward currency contracts derivative financial liabilities 23.3 8.4 23.2 8.3 At 31 December 2010 the Group held one forward currency contract of 1,940.0m 2009: nil of which 700.0m 2009: nil has been designated as a hedge of net investment in the Groups UBM Japan business.
Upon maturity of these forward exchange contracts in January 2011, the Group received 15.4m and paid 1,940.0m.
These forward currency contracts were being used to hedge the Groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments.
At 31 December 2010 the Group held four cross currency interest rate swaps designated as hedges of the net investment in the Group US T echnology and Global Trade and PR Newswire businesses.
Under two of the contracts totalling $166.7m the Group will pay annual interest of 6.336% and receive annual interest of 6.5% on 100.0m until 23 November 2016.
Under the other two contracts totalling $250.1m the Group will pay annual interest of US LIBOR plus 3.14% and receive sterling LIBOR plus 2.90% on 150m until 23 November 2016.
Included in borrowings at 31 December 2010 was a borrowing of $350.0m 2009: nil with a fair value of $334.6m 2009: nil of which $318.2m 2009: nil has been designated as a hedge of the net investment in UBM Asia and UBM Canon businesses and is being used to hedge the Groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments.
Included in borrowings at 31 December 2009 was a borrowing of 2,100.0m with a fair value of 2,100.0m of which 1,100.0m has been designated as a hedge of the net investment in the Japanese subsidiaries and is being used to hedge the Groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on this investment.
At 31 December 2009 the Group held two forward currency contracts designated as hedges of $43m of net investment in the United States operations within the Groups PR Newswire business.
Upon maturity of these forward exchange contracts in January 2010, the Group received 26.7m and paid $43.0m.
At 31 December 2009 the Group held four cross currency interest rate swaps designated as hedges of the net investment in the Group US T echnology and Global Trade businesses.
Gains or losses on the retranslation of these borrowings and the mark to market of the forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps are transferred to other comprehensive income to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investment in these subsidiaries.
These hedges were assessed to be highly effective at 31 December 2010 and 2009 with the ineffective portion of the hedging contracts transferred to financing expense other Note 8.
Fair value hedges 2010 2009 m m Interest rate swaps derivative financial assets 6.8 Interest rate swaps derivative financial liabilities 3.0 2.1 3.8 2.1 Interest rate swap valuations at 31 December 2010 include floating rate swaps for 150m matched against 150m of the 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 and $150m matched against $150m of the $350m fixed rate dollar bonds 2020.
Under these swaps the Group receives 6.50% and 5.75% respectively to match the bond coupons and pays six month sterling LIBOR plus 2.90% and six month US LIBOR plus an average of 2.63% respectively.
The interest rate swaps are used to increase the Groups exposure to interest rates to maintain a balance of fixed and floating interest rate cost.
The hedges were assessed to be highly effective at 31 December 2010 with the ineffective portions of the hedging contracts transferred to financing income other and financing expense other respectively.
112 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 21.
Financial instruments continued Interest rate risk The following tables set out the carrying amount, by maturity, of the Groups financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk: 31 December 2010 Within Between Between Between Between Over 1 year 1 2 years 2 3 years 3 4 years 4 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m Fixed rate Forward exchange contracts 9.1 9.1 $350m fixed rate dollar bonds 2020 124.7 124.7 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 99.0 99.0 232.8 232.8 Floating rate Cash 125.9 125.9 Bank overdraft 0.1 0.1 Interest rate swaps 3.8 3.8 Forward exchange contracts 14.1 14.1 $350m fixed rate dollar bonds 2020 90.7 90.7 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 155.0 155.0 75m floating rate reset bonds 75.0 75.0 53.1m floating rate reset loans 2012 45.5 45.5 325m variable rate multi option facility 2012 20.3 20.3 Other 0.2 0.2 50.6 65.8 256.0 271.2 Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at set intervals of less than one year.
The effect of the interest rate swaps is discussed below.
31 December 2009 Within Between Between Between Between Over 1 year 1 2 years 2 3 years 3 4 years 4 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m Fixed rate Forward exchange contracts 3.5 3.5 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 98.8 98.8 102.3 102.3 Floating rate Cash 158.9 158.9 Bank overdraft 0.1 0.1 Interest rate swaps 2.1 2.1 Forward exchange contracts 4.9 4.9 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 147.0 147.0 75m floating rate reset bonds 75.0 75.0 53.1m floating rate reset loans 2012 47.2 47.2 325m variable rate multi option facility 2012 16.8 16.8 Other 0.2 0.2 0.4 158.6 75.2 64.0 154.0 134.6 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 113 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Financial instruments continued The following table demonstrates the impact on the Groups profit before tax to possible changes in interest rates, with all other variables held constant.
Effect on Gains losses profit recorded in Increase in before tax equity 2010 basis points m m Sterling 100 0.7 US dollar 100 0.6 Euro 100 0.4 Japanese yen 100 Canadian dollar 100 0.2 A decrease in equivalent basis points would result in the exact opposite effect on profit before tax.
In 2009 the Group put in place 150m of fair value interest rate swaps to increase the exposure to interest rates following the issuance of the 250m fixed rate sterling bonds.
In 2010 the Group put in place $150m of fair value interest rate swaps to increase the exposure to interest rates following the issuance of the $350m fixed rate US dollar bonds.
Fair value swaps do not impact gains losses recorded in equity.
Gains losses Effect on loss recorded in Increase in before tax equity 2009 basis points m m Sterling 100 0.2 US dollar 100 1.1 Euro 100 0.4 Japanese yen 100 Canadian dollar 100 Cash flow interest rate hedges remove some of the exposure to interest rates from the floating rate borrowings.
During 2009, the Group had cash flow hedges averaging 188.9m of the amount borrowed from the 325m revolving credit facility.
The impact of the cash flow hedges was to fix floating rate borrowings at an average of 2.96%, excluding borrowing margin.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group manages its credit risk in relation to its operating activities trade receivables and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions and other financial instruments.
Credit risk related to financial instruments and cash deposits The following financial instruments and cash deposits are exposed to credit risk: 2010 2009 m m Cash at bank and in hand 37.7 61.9 Short term deposits 88.2 97.0 Interest rate swaps 6.8 Forward currency contracts 0.1 0.3 132.8 159.2 The Group deposits surplus cash only with major banks of high quality credit standing.
The maximum credit risk associated with the Groups financial instruments and cash deposits is equal to their carrying value as set out in Note 19.
Trade receivables Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Groups established policy, procedures and controls relating to customer credit management.
Credit limits are established for all customers and are based inter alia on bank references and credit checks.
Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and unrelated.
The maximum credit risk associated with the Groups trade receivables is equal to their carrying value as set out in Note 18.
114 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 21.
Financial instruments continued Foreign currency risk The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a possible change in the US dollar, euro, Japanese yen and Canadian dollar exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities and forward currency contracts and the Groups equity due to changes in the fair value of forward currency hedges and net investment hedges.
31 December 2010 Effect on Gains Currency profit recorded value before tax in equity falls by m m US dollar 10% 1.9 44.8 Euro 10% 0.3 Japanese yen 10% 1.1 0.5 Canadian dollar 10% 0.1 0.3 31 December 2009 Effect on Gains Currency loss recorded value before tax in equity falls by m m US dollar 10% 28.7 Euro 10% 1.1 0.9 Japanese yen 10% 1.0 Canadian dollar 10% Liquidity risk The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009.
31 December 2010 On Due within Due between Due 5 years demand 1 year 1 and 5 years and beyond Total m m m m m Bank overdrafts 0.1 0.1 Derivative financial liabilities 2.0 3.4 30.3 31.7 Put options over non-controlling interests 1.4 7.1 8.5 $350m fixed rate dollar bonds 2020 12.8 51.4 287.8 352.0 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 16.3 65.0 266.3 347.6 75m floating rate reset bonds 76.5 76.5 53.1m floating rate reset loans 2012 1.4 46.3 47.7 325m variable rate multi option facility 2012 0.5 20.4 20.9 Other 0.2 0.2 Trade payables 51.3 51.3 Other payables 35.0 1.6 36.6 Contingent and deferred consideration 21.6 19.4 41.0 0.1 213.6 208.9 591.5 1,014.1 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 115 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Financial instruments continued 31 December 2009 On Due within Due between Due 5 years demand 1 year 1 and 5 years and beyond Total m m m m m Bank overdrafts 0.1 0.1 Derivative financial liabilities 1.7 3.8 8.3 10.4 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 16.3 65.0 280.9 362.2 75m floating rate reset bonds 1.6 76.6 78.2 53.1m floating rate reset loans 2012 1.5 49.7 51.2 325m variable rate multi option facility 2012 0.2 17.0 17.2 Other 0.2 0.2 0.4 Trade payables 52.4 52.4 Other payables 33.5 2.0 35.5 Contingent and deferred consideration 14.3 10.8 25.1 0.1 118.3 225.1 289.2 632.7 The above tables include an estimate of interest on the Groups financial liabilities based on the forward interest rate curve and assume the liabilities are in place until their maturity dates.
The table below is an analysis of movement in net debt: 1 January Non-cash Exchange 31 December 2010 items Cash flow movement 2010 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 158.9 38.6 5.6 125.9 Bank overdrafts 0.1 0.1 Net cash 158.8 38.6 5.6 125.8 Bank loans due in less than one year 0.2 0.2 Loan notes due in less than one year 75.0 75.0 Bank loans due in more than one year 64.2 4.4 2.8 65.8 Loan notes due in more than one year 320.8 69.5 214.2 3.9 469.4 Net debt 226.4 5.5 257.2 4.5 484.6 1 January Non-cash Exchange 31 December 2009 items Cash flow movement 2009 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 172.4 6.2 7.3 158.9 Bank overdrafts 3.7 3.6 0.1 Net cash 168.7 2.6 7.3 158.8 Bank loans due in less than one year 50.9 47.0 3.7 0.2 Loan notes due in less than one year 3.9 3.5 0.4 Bank loans due in more than one year 299.3 204.0 31.1 64.2 Loan notes due in more than one year 75.0 1.3 247.1 320.8 Net debt 260.4 1.3 4.8 27.9 226.4 116 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 22.
Trade and other payables As restated 2010 2009 m m Current Trade payables 51.3 52.4 Other payables 35.0 33.5 Contingent and deferred consideration Note 29 21.6 14.3 Other taxes and social security 13.2 12.5 Accruals and deferred income 257.3 202.9 378.4 315.6 Non-current Other payables 1.6 2.0 Contingent and deferred consideration Note 29 19.4 10.8 Accruals and deferred income 1.3 0.1 22.3 12.9 Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
The amounts shown for the year ended 31 December 2009 have been restated to reflect the finalisation of acquisition accounting adjustments relating to certain acquisitions made in 2009 Note 1.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 117 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Provisions Reorganisation Former Prior and financial period restructuring Properties services disposals Total m m m m m At 1 January 2010 9.8 35.1 0.1 5.0 50.0 Arising during the year 4.6 1.2 5.8 Acquisitions Note 29 0.5 1.3 1.8 Utilised in the year 12.6 11.2 0.1 0.5 24.4 Net present value accretion 1.0 1.0 Currency translation 0.3 0.6 0.9 At 31 December 2010 2.6 28.0 4.5 35.1 Current 2.6 10.3 12.9 Non-current 17.7 4.5 22.2 At 31 December 2010 2.6 28.0 4.5 35.1 Reorganisation Former Prior and financial period restructuring Properties services disposals Total m m m m m 20.6 46.5 0.7 10.8 78.6 At 1 January 2009 12.5 3.7 16.2 Arising during the year 22.0 12.9 0.6 5.8 41.3 Utilised in the year 1.2 1.2 Net present value accretion 1.3 3.4 4.7 Currency translation 9.8 35.1 0.1 5.0 50.0 At 31 December 2009 9.8 12.5 0.1 1.0 23.4 Current 22.6 4.0 26.6 Non-current 9.8 35.1 0.1 5.0 50.0 At 31 December 2009 Provisions recognised by the Group are based on reliable estimates determined by management of the amounts payable based on available information.
The amounts recorded in the above tables are continually evaluated by management.
Liabilities for reorganisation and restructuring As discussed in Note 7, the Group has implemented a number of restructuring and reorganisation projects.
With the exception of amounts relating to vacant properties see liabilities on properties below, the provision is expected to be substantially utilised within one year.
Liabilities on properties The Group has lease obligations in respect of the continuing costs of vacant property, the quantification of which depends upon the ability to exit the leases early or sublet the properties, and for dilapidations on certain leasehold properties which are dependent principally on actual reinstatement costs on expiry of the leases.
The provision in respect of these obligations at 31 December 2010 has been determined following external professional advice and will be utilised over the period of the leases in question, which range from one to five years.
The provision is discounted at an appropriate cost of capital.
The amounts discussed under liabilities for reorganisation and restructuring relating to vacant property have been included within liabilities on property.
Liabilities arising from former financial services activities A subsidiary of the Group was formerly engaged in the selling of personal pensions prior to 1996.
As a result of the industry-wide review into pension mis-selling by the Personal Investment Authority, the Group was exposed to actual and potential future claims by investors in respect of policies found to have been mis-sold.
The provision was been fully utilised during the year.
Liabilities relating to disposals in prior periods The Group has made a number of disposals of businesses in prior years.
Warranty and other claims may be brought against the Group in relation to these disposed businesses generally over periods of up to seven years after the date of disposal.
The provision in respect of these items has been determined based upon the contract terms of each disposal and are reassessed on an annual basis over the period during which claims may be brought against the Group.
118 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 24.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates a number of funded defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes in the UK and overseas.
The charge for the year in relation to defined contribution schemes was 6.4m 2009: 4.4m.
The defined benefit pension schemes included in the following disclosures are: i UK schemes: the United Pension Plan, the United Magazines Final Salary Scheme, the defined benefit section of the United Group Pension Scheme UGPS, the United Newspapers Executive Pension Scheme and the OAG Pension Scheme which was transferred to the UGPS on 8 September 2010 : ii US schemes: the CMP Media LLC Cash Balance Retirement Plan and the CMP Post Retirement Medical Plan: and iii Retirement Indemnity Plans in France.
The most recent actuarial funding valuations for the majority of the UK scheme liabilities were carried out in 2008 and updated to 31 December 2010 by independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position are determined as follows: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 m m m m m m 415.6 23.6 439.2 Fair value of plan assets 440.8 26.0 466.8 431.1 32.2 463.3 Benefit obligation 441.7 32.9 474.6 2.5 2.5 Irrecoverable element of pension surplus 4.9 4.9 18.0 8.6 26.6 Liability in the statement of financial position 5.8 6.9 12.7 Any surplus on the UK schemes ultimately repaid by the Trustees would currently be subject to a 35% tax charge prior to being repaid.
The application of IFRIC 14 is such that this tax is shown as irrecoverable surplus.
Two of the UK schemes are in surplus at 31 December 2010, with an aggregate surplus position of 9.1m.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 m m m m m m 0.7 0.3 1.0 Current service cost 0.6 0.3 0.9 Past service cost Curtailments 0.7 0.3 1.0 0.6 0.3 0.9 21.9 1.8 23.7 Interest cost 23.9 1.7 25.6 24.4 1.5 25.9 Expected return on plan assets 27.1 1.7 28.8 2.5 0.3 2.2 3.2 3.2 1.8 0.6 1.2 Total pension credit charge 2.6 0.3 2.3 Of the total pension credit charge, a 0.9m charge and a 3.2m credit 2009: 1.0m charge and 2.2m credit were included in Operating expenses and Financing income respectively.
The total pension credit for 2011 is currently expected to be 2.1m.
The main UK schemes are closed to new members, hence under the projected unit credit method, the current service cost expressed as a percentage of the salaries of the remaining members will increase as the remaining active members of the scheme approach retirement.
Following finalisation of the 2008 funding valuations in 2009, the Group agreed to make special contributions to the UK pension schemes over the next five years of 3.1m per annum plus a one-off contribution in 2009 of 1.3m.
The Group also agreed, as part of merger agreements for several of the pension schemes, to arrange letters of credit to be issued to the scheme trustees from one or more of the Companys bankers.
The value of the letters of credit issued to the scheme trustees in 2010 is 17.0m 2009: 13.0m.
The main conditions under which these letters of credit could be drawn relate to events which would imperil the interests of the scheme, such as insolvency, or the Group failing to make agreed payments.
Pension deficit contributions of 3.1m 2009: 3.7m were made to the UK schemes during the year and nil 2009: nil were made to other schemes during the year.
The Group expects to contribute 3.1m to its defined benefit pension plans in 2011.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 119 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The movement in the asset and liability recognised in the statement of financial position is as follows: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 m m m m m m 30.2 15.6 14.6 At 1 January 18.0 8.6 26.6 1.8 0.6 1.2 Total income expenses recognised in the income statement 2.6 0.3 2.3 67.8 3.9 63.9 Net actuarial gains losses recognised in the year 8.4 0.6 9.0 13.8 13.8 Irrecoverable element of pension surplus 2.4 2.4 4.0 2.5 6.5 Contributions paid by UBM 3.6 1.5 5.1 1.2 1.2 Currency translation 0.1 0.1 18.0 8.6 26.6 At 31 December 5.8 6.9 12.7 The principal actuarial assumptions used in determining pension obligations for the Groups schemes are shown below: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Schemes Schemes 2010 2010 2009 2009 % % % % 5.70 5.39 Discount rate 5.60 5.10 3.75 2.00 Future salary increases 3.75 2.00 2.96 n a Weighted average pension increases 2.88 n a 3.30 2.45 Retail price inflation 3.30 2.45 n a n a Consumer price inflation 2.55 n a Expected return on scheme assets: Equities 8.90 9.50 8.70 9.50 Bonds 5.70 5.50 5.60 5.50 Gilts 4.40 n a 4.20 n a Property n a n a 8.70 n a Other 0.50 3.00 0.50 3.00 The UK Government announced in 2010 its intention to adopt consumer price inflation CPI rather than retail price inflation RPI for statutory minimum pension revaluations indexation from 1 January 2011.
This change impacts the UK schemes where pension revaluation is linked to the statutory minimum.
The reduction in liability at 31 December 2010 from applying the CPI assumption where relevant was 8.0m.
The mortality assumptions used at 31 December 2010 for UK schemes have been updated.
The death rates used are 130% of the 2000 series standard tables based on the year of birth of scheme members, which is currently on average 1939 for pensioners 2009: 1939 and 1956 for non-pensioners 2009: 1956.
Allowances for future reductions in death rates were assumed to be in line with the medium cohort standard actuarial projection with a 1% underpin 2009: medium cohort.
These projections allow for life expectancy to improve over time due to improvements in medical treatments and other lifestyle factors such that younger members who have not yet reached pensionable age are expected to live longer than current pensioner members.
The assumed average life expectancy of current pensioner members at 65 is 20.2 years for males and 22.7 years for females 2009: 19.4 years and 21.8 years respectively.
For current non-pensioner members who have not yet reached pensionable age, the assumed average life expectancy at 65 is 22.1 years for males and 24.5 years for females 2009: 20.6 years and 22.9 years respectively.
The average rate of improvement underlying the standard tables is an increase of approximately 0.9 years life expectancy in every 10 years.
For the valuation of US scheme liabilities, RP 2000 tables are used in both years for all members.
The life expectancy for a 65-year-old male is 18.8 years 2009: 18.8 years and a 65-year-old female is 20.8 years 2009: 20.8 years.
Additional assumptions used for valuing the UK scheme liabilities are an allowance for all non-pensioners to take 15% of pension as tax free cash upon retirement.
The equivalent assumption used for the 31 December 2009 valuation was 6080% of non-pensioners to exchange 32% of pension for tax-free cash on retirement.
The net impact of this change in assumption is not material.
Plan assets mainly consist of equity instruments and fixed income investments.
The expected rate of return on equities at 31 December 2010 is based on an expected long term out-performance of equities over government bonds of 4.5% p. a.
120 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 24.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Management has used judgement to determine the assumptions used in calculating the pension obligations.
The assumed discount rate, salary increases and mortality all have a significant effect on the IAS 19 accounting valuation.
The following table shows the sensitivity of the valuation to changes in these assumptions.
Impact on Impact on deficit deficit 2010 2009 m m 16.0 0.25 percentage point decrease to discount rate 20.0 8.0 0.25 percentage point increase to inflation including pension increases linked to inflation 15.0 Additional one year increase to life expectancy 20.0 15.0 The reconciliation of the defined benefit obligation is as follows: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 m m m m m m 335.6 38.8 374.4 Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 431.1 32.2 463.3 0.7 0.3 1.0 Service cost 0.6 0.3 0.9 21.9 1.8 23.7 Interest cost 23.9 1.7 25.6 0.3 0.3 Employee contributions 0.3 0.3 Curtailment gain 20.2 5.4 25.6 Benefit payments 22.2 3.2 25.4 Past service cost Actuarial loss on liabilities 8.0 1.0 9.0 92.8 0.1 92.9 3.4 3.4 Exchange rate loss gain 0.9 0.9 431.1 32.2 463.3 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 441.7 32.9 474.6 The reconciliation of the plan assets is as follows: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 m m m m m m Assets at 1 January 415.6 23.6 439.2 382.1 23.2 405.3 4.0 2.5 6.5 Employer contributions 3.6 1.5 5.1 0.3 0.3 Employee contributions 0.3 0.3 20.2 5.4 25.6 Benefit payments 22.2 3.2 25.4 49.4 5.5 54.9 Actual return on assets 43.5 3.3 46.8 2.2 2.2 Exchange rate gain loss 0.8 0.8 415.6 23.6 439.2 Assets at 31 December 440.8 26.0 466.8 The assets held in the schemes are as follows, split by asset category: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 % % % % % % 55.0 44.0 55.0 Equity 52.0 44.0 52.0 13.0 32.0 14.0 Bonds 7.0 32.0 8.0 29.0 17.0 28.0 Gilts 30.0 17.0 29.0 Property 9.0 8.0 1.0 7.0 1.0 Cash 7.0 1.0 2.0 2.0 Annuity contracts 2.0 2.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 The plan assets do not include any shares in UBM or any property occupied by the Group.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 121 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Actuarial gains and losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Schemes Schemes Total Total 2009 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 m m m m m m 3.3 0.3 3.0 Experience losses gains on plan liabilities 1.2 0.5 1.7 89.5 0.4 89.9 Actuarial losses on plan liabilities due to assumptions 6.8 0.5 7.3 Experience gains on plan assets 16.4 1.6 18.0 25.0 4.0 29.0 13.8 13.8 Effect of irrecoverable element of pension surplus 2.4 2.4 54.0 3.9 50.1 Total gain loss 6.0 0.6 6.6 The cumulative amount of actuarial gains recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is 27.7m 2009: 21.1m.
UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2009 2009 2010 2010 2010 2009 % % % % % % 0.8 0.9 0.6 Experience losses gains on plan liabilities 0.3 1.5 0.4 6.0 16.9 6.6 Experience gains on plan assets 3.7 6.2 3.9 History of experience gains and losses: UK UK UK UK UK Schemes Schemes Schemes Schemes Schemes 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m 431.1 335.6 415.6 445.2 Defined benefit obligation 441.7 415.6 382.1 455.9 445.0 Plan assets 440.8 2.5 16.3 14.1 Irrecoverable element of pension surplus 4.9 18.0 30.2 26.2 0.2 Deficit surplus in statement of financial position 5.8 3.3 11.5 4.2 2.2 Experience losses gains on plan liabilities 1.2 25.0 83.5 1.5 7.9 Experience gains losses on plan assets 16.4 Other Other Other Other Other Schemes Schemes Schemes Schemes Schemes 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m 32.2 38.8 29.0 31.9 Defined benefit obligation 32.9 23.6 23.2 24.9 28.3 Plan assets 26.0 Irrecoverable element of pension surplus 8.6 15.6 4.1 3.6 Deficit in statement of financial position 6.9 0.3 0.5 0.7 2.0 Experience losses gains on plan liabilities 0.5 4.0 10.1 0.4 1.1 Experience gains losses on plan assets 1.6 Experience gains on plan assets: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 m m m m m m 24.4 1.5 25.9 Expected return on assets 27.1 1.7 28.8 49.4 5.5 54.9 Actual return on assets 43.5 3.3 46.8 25.0 4.0 29.0 16.4 1.6 18.0 122 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 25.
Share capital 2010 2009 m m Authorised 121.7 1,217,124,740 2009: 1,217,124,740 ordinary shares of 10 pence each 121.7 Ordinary Ordinary Shares Shares Number m Issued and fully paid 24.4 At 1 January 2009 244,082,372 92,116 Issued in respect of share option schemes and other entitlements 244,174,488 24.4 At 31 December 2009 Issued in respect of share option schemes and other entitlements 379,118 244,553,606 At 31 December 2010 24.4 Share repurchases The Group did not repurchase nor cancel any of its own ordinary shares during the year 2009: nil.
Company share schemes The ESOP Trust and QUEST Trust Note 27 own 0.55% 2009: 0.27% of the issued share capital of the Company in trust for the benefit of employees of the Group and their dependants.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the trustees.
Share premium 2010 2009 m m 1.0 In issue at 1 January 1.2 0.2 Premium on shares issued, net of costs 1.9 1.2 In issue at 31 December 3.1 The Company received 1.9m 2009: 0.2m on the issue of shares in respect of the exercise of options awarded under various share option plans.
Share-based payments The Group has an Employee Share Ownership Plan the ESOP.
The ESOP has purchased in the open market Company shares which are held on trust for employees participating in the plans listed below.
The purchase of shares in the open market is financed through contributions in cash by the Company and, for awards under the Bonus Investment Plan, through bonuses sacrificed by senior executives.
The Group also has a Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust the QUEST, which is a discretionary trust for the benefit of UK employees including executive directors of the Group in connection with the exercise of SAYE options.
As at 31 December the holdings over the ESOP and the QUEST were as follows: 2010 2010 2009 2009 Number of Market value Number of Market value shares m shares m ESOP Ordinary shares 1,352,273 9.3 667,047 3.1 QUEST Ordinary shares The Group maintains eight share-based payment arrangements: 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme, 2008 Executive Share Option Scheme, Executive Retention Plan, 2000 Senior Executive Equity Participation Plan, UK Save As You Earn Option Scheme, International Save As You Earn Scheme, Medium T erm Incentive Plan, Performance Share Plan and Bonus Investment Plan.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 123 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Share-based payments continued Executive share option scheme On 18 April 2000 the Group established a share option programme for full-time directors and certain employees.
Grants are no longer made under the 2000 Executive Scheme.
Options may be exercised after the third anniversary of the grant date subject to satisfactory completion of performance conditions.
Options must normally be exercised before the expiry of ten years from the date of the grant.
Options may be exercised earlier in the event of death.
On 2 June 2008 the Group adopted the 2008 Executive Share Option Scheme the 2008 Executive scheme for full-time directors and certain employees.
All participants in the 2008 Executive scheme must be employed by United Business Media Limited or one of its subsidiaries at the time of granting the options.
Options were granted for the first time under the 2008 Executive scheme in 2009.
The number of options granted to a participant under the 2008 Executive scheme is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The number of shares that may be allocated under the 2008 Executive scheme on any day cannot, when added to the aggregate of the number of shares allocated in the previous ten years under the 2008 Executive scheme and any other discretionary share plan adopted by the Company, exceed 5% of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue immediately before that day.
The exercise price to be paid by a participant when exercising options granted will be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The price shall not be lower than the closing middle market price of shares of that class as listed on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List on the day prior to the grant date or the average closing middle market price of shares of that class on the three days prior to the grant date if so decided by the Remuneration Committee.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following exercise prices: 2010 Weighted 2010 2009 2009 average Weighted Weighted Weighted exercise average 2010 average average 2009 price remaining life Number of exercise price remaining life Number Exercise price p p years shares p years of shares 261.4 3.0265,045 247.3 277.2 262.1 2.0 253,045 478.8 7.56,514,364 410.0 665.5 485.2 7.5 8,170,741 767.8 2.2946,211 724.8 867.2 727.6 1.9 585,000 Executive Retention Plan In 2005 the Group established the Executive Retention Plan ERP, for certain directors and employees.
All participants in the ERP must be employed by United Business Media Limited or one of its subsidiaries at the time of granting the awards.
The value of awards granted to a participant under the ERP is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Awards are made in special circumstances to individuals as a recruitment or retention tool.
The awards are made in the form of options exercisable on payment of a nominal value of 1, or conditional share awards for employees in the US.
Awards will generally vest after three years subject to continued employment and are generally not subject to any other performance condition.
Where awards are granted as a monetary value rather than as a number of shares, the number of ordinary shares over which a monetary award is made is calculated by dividing the monetary value of the award by the price of UBM ordinary shares at the time of grant.
2000 Senior Executive Equity Participation Plan In April 2000 the Group established the Senior Executive Equity Participation Plan SEEPP for certain directors and employees.
Shares are purchased on the open market and financed through bonuses sacrificed by senior executives the Bonus Option under the terms of SEEPP.
The SEEPP has now been closed and no further grants will be made under the scheme.
Matching options may be exercised after the fourth anniversary of the grant date subject to satisfactory completion of performance conditions.
One-third of Matching options vest subject to adjusted earnings per share EPS see Note 10 growth exceeding retail price index RPI growth plus 3%: one-third of options vest subject to adjusted EPS growth exceeding RPI growth plus 5% per annum over four years: the final third is not subject to performance criteria.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year were 0.1m which have an exercise price of nil, and an average weighted remaining life of three years.
124 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 27.
Share-based payments continued Save As You Earn Option Schemes In May 2004, the Group established the 2004 Sharesave Scheme 2004 SAYE for directors and employees.
Grants are no longer made under the 2004 SAYE.
Options may be exercised after either the third, fifth or seventh anniversary of the grant date in accordance with each employees Savings Contract.
Options must normally be exercised within six months of the date the options are exercisable or within 12 months in the case of death.
Options may be exercised earlier in the event of death, or ceasing to be employed due to retirement, injury, disability or redundancy.
In June 2008 the Company adopted the 2008 Sharesave Scheme 2008 SAYE for directors and employees.
Under the 2008 SAYE scheme participants must be employed by United Business Media Limited or one of its subsidiaries at the time of granting the options.
Options were granted for the first time under the 2008 SAYE in 2009.
The number of shares that may be allocated under the 2008 SAYE scheme on any day cannot, when added to the aggregate of the number of shares allocated in the previous ten years under the 2008 SAYE scheme and any other share plan adopted by the Company, exceed 10% of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue immediately before that day.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following exercise prices: 2010 Weighted 2010 2009 2009 average Weighted Weighted Weighted exercise average 2010 average average 2009 price remaining life Number exercise price remaining life Number Exercise price p p years of shares p years of shares 160.5 0.9 22,120 160.5 386.2 2.3 1,548,923 381.0 2.61,527,250 367.0 497.2 640.1 640.1 1.0 37,372 640.1 1.2139,948 Medium Term Incentive Plan Only market-purchased shares may be used for awards under the Medium T erm Incentive Plan MTIP.
The value of the MTIP award is based on a percentage of salary as determined by the Remuneration Committee each year, following assessment of the employee company performance over the prior financial year the performance year.
Grants are no longer made under the MTIP.
Options may be exercised in two stages: 50% of options may be exercised in January of the second financial year after the year in which they were granted: the remaining 50% may be exercised in January of the third financial year after the options were granted.
Options may only be granted subject to satisfactory completion of performance conditions.
Options must normally be exercised before the expiry of seven years from the date of the grant.
Options may be exercised earlier in the event of death or ceasing to be employed due to retirement, injury, disability or redundancy.
The exercise price of the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2010 is nil 2009: nil, and the weighted average life of the share options is four years.
Awards outstanding at the end of the year expiring on 31 March 2012, 3 April 2013, 4 April 2014 and 20 March 2015 were nil 2009: under 0.1m, under 0.1m 2009: under 0.1m, under 0.1m 2009: under 0.1m and under 0.1m 2009: under 0.1m respectively.
Performance Share Plan In 2005 the Group established an incentive plan for full-time directors and senior executives.
All participants in the Performance Share Plan PSP must be employed by United Business Media Limited or one of its subsidiaries at the time of granting the awards.
The value of awards granted to a participant under the PSP is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, but may not exceed 1.5 times base salary, save that in exceptional circumstances awards of up to two times base salary may be made.
Grants were made during the year under the PSP to full-time directors and senior executives, which requires United Business Medias total shareholder return TSR to outperform a comparator group of companies over a three year period.
25% of the award will vest if TSR is at median position subject to a maximum value of 25% of base salary and 100% if TSR is in the top decile.
In between these positions, the award will vest on a straight-line basis.
Options must be exercised before the expiry of ten years from the date of the grant.
The number of ordinary shares over which an award is made is calculated by dividing the monetary value of the award by the price of UBM ordinary shares at the time of grant.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 125 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Share-based payments continued The number of ordinary shares over which awards may be granted under the Performance Plan may not result in more than 10% of the ordinary share capital being issued or issuable under the Companys incentive plans in any ten year period.
It is expected that market purchased shares will generally be used to satisfy awards under the PSP.
Bonus Investment Plan In 2005 the Group established the Bonus Investment Plan BIP, which replaced the SEEPP.
This enables participants to defer part of their annual bonus into United Business Media Limited ordinary shares and provides the opportunity to earn further shares.
25% of any annual bonus award will be automatically be deferred into shares to be held for three years, and the participant may also elect to defer up to a further 25% into shares for the same period.
For BIP awards made prior to 2010, at the end of three years if the employee remains in service with the Company then the participant could receive a matching award of up to two additional shares for every share held if the Companys adjusted earnings per share have grown by more than an average of at least 8% per annum above UK retail price index growth over the three-year period.
A lower ratio of matching shares may be earned if earnings per share have grown by between 3% and 8% per annum above UK retail price index growth.
BIP awards made in 2010 require United Business Medias total shareholder return TSR to outperform a comparator group of companies over a three year period.
The number of ordinary shares which may be placed under option under the BIP depends on the monetary value of the bonus awarded to an employee during the year.
The amount of bonus depends upon employee Company performance over the prior financial year the year of performance measurement.
For the element which is mandatorily paid in shares, the number is calculated by dividing 25% of the monetary value of the bonus by the average December share price in the year proceeding the year of performance measurement.
For any further element which the employee elects to defer into shares, the number is calculated by dividing the relevant monetary value by the share price at the time of the award.
Awards are made in the form of options which are exercisable on payment of a nominal 1, or conditional awards for employees in the US.
Options, once vested, must normally be exercised before the expiry of ten years from the date of grant.
The number of ordinary shares over which awards may be granted under the BIP may not result in more than 10% of the ordinary share capital being issued or issuable under the Companys incentive plans in any ten year period.
It is expected that market purchased shares will generally be used to satisfy awards under the BIP.
Option movements A reconciliation of option movements over the year for all plans is as follows: 2010 2010 2010 2010 ESOS ERP 2000 SEEPP SAYE Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price of options price of options price m p m p m p m p At 1 January 2010 7.7 506.8 0.1 1.7 399.6 Granted 2.5 508.4 0.3 0.3 428.5 Forfeited Exercised 0.3 535.8 0.1 Expired 0.9 620.4 0.4 471.3 At 31 December 2010 9.0 494.7 0.2 0.1 1.6 392.2 Exercisable at 31 December 2010 2.5 558.7 0.1 126 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 27.
Share-based payments continued 2010 2010 2010 MTIP PSP BIP Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price of options price m p m p m p At 1 January 2010 0.1 1.9 1.0 Granted 0.3 0.4 Forfeited Exercised 0.3 0.1 Expired 0.7 0.2 At 31 December 2010 0.1 1.2 1.1 Exercisable at 31 December 2010 0.1 0.6 0.2 There are periodic share option exercises throughout the year and the average UBM share price in 2010 was 553.3p 2009: 445.8p.
2009 2009 2009 2009 ESOS ERP 2000 SEEPP SAYE Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price of options price of options price m p m p m p m p 6.0 556.5 0.1 0.2 1.3 453.4 At 1 January 2009 2.7 410.8 1.2 367.0 Granted Forfeited 0.1 247.2 0.1 Exercised 0.9 569.0 0.1 0.8 435.2 Expired 7.7 506.8 0.1 1.7 399.6 At 31 December 2009 3.3 585.0 0.1 Exercisable at 31 December 2009 2009 2009 2009 MTIP PSP BIP Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price of options price m p m p m p 0.3 2.7 1.4 At 1 January 2009 0.9 0.3 Granted Forfeited 0.2 1.1 0.4 Exercised 0.6 0.3 Expired 0.1 1.9 1.0 At 31 December 2009 0.4 Exercisable at 31 December 2009 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 127 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Share-based payments continued Valuation of share-based payments Options granted under the 2008 Executive Share Option Scheme and the SAYE plans were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing models.
Nil cost options and restricted shares excluding the PSP awards and the 2010 BIP match awards with TSR-based performance conditions were valued based on the share price at grant date less the value of any dividends foregone during the period to exercise.
The following table provides the weighted averages of the assumptions used to value options granted during the year ended 31 December 2010: 2010 2009 5.0% Dividend yield 5.0% 20.0% Expected volatility 30.0% 1.9% Risk-free rate 1.9% Forfeiture assumptions % per year : All plans excluding SAYE 5.0% 5.0% SAYE 10.0% 10.0% Weighted average share price at grant date: Options 430p 516p Nil cost options share awards without TSR condition 434p 544p Nil cost options share awards with TSR condition 438p 534p Weighted average fair value at grant date: Options 51p 82p Nil cost options share awards without TSR condition 514p 457p Nil cost options share awards with TSR condition 256p 309p Equal to vesting period Expected life Equal to vesting period The expected volatility is based on managements view of future expectations and consideration of the Groups historic average volatility.
A Monte Carlo simulation model was used for valuing PSP awards and 2010 BIP awards which have a performance condition based on the ranking of UBM TSR growth relative to a group of media-related comparator companies.
The additional assumptions made for this purpose are that the average correlation of TSR growth between companies is 23% 2009: 19% and the average of the individual volatility assumptions used for each comparator company is 48% 2009: 46%.
The total charge for the year relating to the employee share-based payment plans was 3.5m 2009: 2.9m.
Of this amount, 3.2m 2009: 2.4m related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The remaining 0.3m 2009: 0.5m relates to that 25% of cash bonus earned which may be deferred for shares under the BIP at the option of the employee, which is treated as cash-settled liability at 31 December 2010 until the actual deferral amount is known.
At 31 December 2010, the cash-settled liability was 0.3m 2009: 0.5m.
The total charge for the year includes an amount in relation to 0.4 million nil cost BIP options that are expected to be issued in 2011 based on services provided and performance over 2010.
The weighted average fair value for these awards is 289p and the awards are expensed over four years starting in January 2010.
The expense will be adjusted in 2011 where appropriate to allow for the actual number of awards granted and fair value at grant date.
In the 2009 total charge for the year, it was expected that 0.6 million nil cost BIP options were to be issued in 2010 with a weighted average fair value of 387p and the awards are expensed over four years starting in January 2009.
The Group has adopted the exemption in IFRS 2 Share-based payments to fair value options granted from 7 November 2002 onwards.
128 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 28.
Other reserves Foreign currency Total Merger translation ESOP other reserve reserve reserve Other reserve reserves m m m m m 732.2 66.8 19.5 117.4 567.5 Balance at 1 January 2009 1 51.7 7.9 43.8 Total comprehensive losses for the year 13.6 13.6 Shares awarded by ESOP 732.2 15.1 5.9 125.3 597.7 Balance at 31 December 2009 2 Total comprehensive losses for the year 8.1 8.1 Shares awarded by ESOP 3.4 3.4 Own shares purchased by the Company 6.3 6.3 Balance at 31 December 2010 732.2 7.0 8.8 125.3 608.7 1 The amount included in the foreign currency translation reserve for 2009 represents the currency translation difference on foreign operations on Group subsidiaries of 45.2 m excluding 0.1 m relating to non-controlling interests, net investment hedges of 5.0 m and on joint ventures and associates of 1.5 m. The amount recognised in the other reserve represents the gains on cash flow hedges arising during the year of 0.2m and reclassification adjustments for amounts included in profit or loss of 7.7m.
2 The amount included in the foreign currency translation reserve for 2010 represents the currency translation difference on foreign operations on Group subsidiaries of 6.1m excluding 0.5m relating to non-controlling interests, on net investment hedges of 14.6 m and on joint ventures and associates of 0.4m.
Merger reserve The merger reserve is used to record entries in relation to certain reorganisations that took place in previous accounting periods.
The majority of the balance on the reserve relates to the capital reorganisation that took place in 2008 which created a new holding company which is UK-listed, incorporated in Jersey and with its tax residence in the Republic of Ireland.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record the effect of hedging net investments of foreign operations.
ESOP reserve The ESOP reserve records ordinary shares held by the ESOP to satisfy future share awards.
The shares are recorded at cost.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, 1,200,000 shares were purchased by the ESOP 2009: nil.
Other reserve This reserve includes the unrealised gains and losses reserve which records the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 129 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Acquisitions The Group completed 22 acquisitions during 2010 of which Canon Communications LLC Canon was particularly significant.
Details of all other acquisitions have been provided below by reportable segment.
The following table sets out the carrying amounts of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in respect of acquisitions made in 2010: Other All Canon acquisitions acquisitions 2010 2010 2010 Fair Fair Fair value value value to Group to Group to Group m m m Intangible assets 67.8 24.2 92.0 Property, plant and equipment 1.3 0.8 2.1 Cash and cash equivalents 1.8 3.4 5.2 Trade and other receivables 13.9 11.1 25.0 84.8 39.5 124.3 Trade and other payables 23.7 18.3 42.0 Provisions 1.8 1.8 Deferred tax liability 23.7 5.2 28.9 49.2 23.5 72.7 Identifiable net assets 35.6 16.0 51.6 Goodwill arising on acquisition net of changes in estimates of pre 1 January 2010 contingent consideration of 2.0m within Other acquisitions 150.4 69.0 219.4 Non-controlling interests 9.5 9.5 186.0 75.5 261.5 Trade and other receivables acquired have been recognised at fair value which equates to the gross contractual amounts receivable.
All amounts recognised are expected to be collected.
The total consideration paid and payable after working capital adjustments on acquisitions is shown below: Other All Canon acquisitions acquisitions 2010 2010 2010 m m m Consideration: Cash paid to acquire subsidiaries 186.0 43.9 229.9 Contingent consideration on acquisitions 32.0 32.0 Deferred consideration on acquisitions 1.3 1.3 Contingent consideration adjustments on pre 1 January 2010 acquisitions 2.0 2.0 Total consideration transferred 186.0 75.2 261.2 Fair value of previously held interests 0.3 0.3 186.0 75.5 261.5 The Group has acquired 100% of the voting rights in all cases where acquisitions involved the purchase of companies unless otherwise stated below.
All acquisitions where less than 100% of the voting rights of a company were purchased have been accounted for using the full goodwill method, as permitted by IFRS 3 revised 2008.
As none of these companies are listed, no market information is available.
Therefore, the fair value of the non-controlling interest for each acquisition has been estimated using a multiples approach with assumed adjustments for the lack of control that market participants would have by reference to the purchase price paid by the Group.
Acquisition costs of 6.1m have been expensed as exceptional items in the income statement Note 7 and are included in operating cash flows in the statement of cash flows.
3.3m of these costs relate to the acquisition of Canon.
130 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 29.
Acquisitions continued Canon Communications LLC On 21 October 2010, the Group acquired Canon, a leading provider of tradeshows and related media products serving the global advanced manufacturing sector, for cash consideration of $287.0m 183.2m.
The acquisition of Canon will complement three of the Groups reportable segments: Events: Canon brings UBM event leadership in the attractive, growing medical device design and manufacturing market.
The Companys US events expertise, databases and marketing services capabilities will augment and advance the Groups existing US tradeshows in markets such as packaging, ingredients and speciality chemicals.
It will also provide the Group with the opportunity to geo-clone events in fast growing economies such as China, India and Brazil.
Online Marketing Services: Canons Online Marketing Services product portfolio complements the Groups existing position in the electronic engineering market, broadening the Groups portfolio of information products and services for the electronic design and engineering community.
Print Magazines: Canons print product portfolio complements the Groups existing position in the electronic engineering market, broadening the Groups portfolio of information products and services for the electronic design and engineering community.
The goodwill of 150.4m arising from the acquisition of Canon relates to the following factors: The acquisition provides UBM with a market leading position in the growing medical devices events market and provides growth opportunities, particularly in emerging markets, through leveraging the Groups international tradeshow infrastructure and expertise on Canons existing business.
Management expects a high proportion of new customers: the revenue streams associated with new customers have been reflected in goodwill.
The value of existing Canon customers is included in the intangible asset detailed below.
Buyer specific tax shields reflecting net operating losses and unrecognised deferred tax assets which are expected to remain within the combined UBM and Canon business.
None of the goodwill recognised on acquisition of Canon is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Other acquisitions The goodwill of 69.0m recognised above for other acquisitions relates to certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated.
These include items such as customer loyalty, market share, skilled workforce and synergies expected to arise after the acquisition completion.
Of the goodwill arising, an amount of 2.3m is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Events acquisitions On 12 February 2010, the Group acquired 70% of Sign China, an international tradeshow serving the rapidly growing Chinese outdoor advertising sign industry, for initial cash consideration of $10.7m 7.1m with further performance-related consideration of up to $3.9m 2.6m payable over the next three years.
The acquisition of Sign China will add another industry leading event to the Groups portfolio, as well as provide a springboard for expansion into South China for the Events segment.
On 3 March 2010, the Group acquired E Commerce Expo Limited for initial cash consideration of 0.6m with further performance-related consideration of up to 1.2m payable after the October 2010 event.
E Commerce Expo is a two-day exhibition with an associated conference and awards ceremony dedicated to e-commerce and online retailing.
The acquisition advances the presence of the Events segment in the e-commerce, internet retailing and digital marketing sectors, which are identified as offering sustainable long-term growth potential.
On 9 April 2010, the Group acquired DesignCon, an exhibition and conference serving the electronic design and semiconductor industry, for cash consideration of $1.4m 0.9m.
DesignCon will strengthen international presence of the Events segment in the electronic design and semiconductor industry.
On 21 May 2010, the Group made the following acquisitions: 60% interest in Navalshore, a Brazilian shipbuilding industry tradeshow and conference for cash consideration of R$2.9m 1.1m.
The acquisition of a majority stake in Navalshore within the Events segment gives UBM greater exposure to the Brazilian maritime industry, one of the fastest growing markets in the world.
The Group has two call options, both priced at 7x EBITA, over a further 30% of the equity: 20% exercisable after 31 December 2014 capped at R$6m 2.3m and 10% exercisable after 31 December 2018 capped at R$4m 1.5m.
The vendors also have a put option over their 40% interest exercisable after 31 December 2012 and priced at 7x EBITA capped at R$10m 3.8m.
The carrying value of the put option at 31 December 2010 is 1.4m, reported within non-current borrowings.
75% interest in Sienna Interlink, a Brazilian exhibition company based in Sao Paulo for initial cash consideration of R$19.8m 7.6m with further performancerelated consideration of up to R$20.2m 7.7m payable over the next year.
In addition to contributing profitable revenue growth and expanding the Events segments presence in Brazil, the acquisition provides exposure to the fast-growing South American concrete market which is benefiting from significant construction activity taking place ahead of the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil and the 2016 Rio fide Janeiro Olympics.
The Group has a call option exercisable after 31 December 2014, priced at 7x EBITA.
The vendor also has a put option over their 25% interest exercisable after 31 December 2016 and priced at 7x EBITA.
The carrying value of the put option at 31 December 2010 is 7.1m, reported within non-current borrowings.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 131 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Acquisitions continued On 20 July 2010, the Group acquired the Shanghai International  Products Expo and related businesses for initial cash consideration of $9.7m 6.3m and further performance-related consideration of up to $6.4m 4.2m payable over the next two years.
The acquisition, mainly comprising an annual exhibition for the Chinese child and baby products market, will enable the Group to enter a dynamic new business sector within the Events segment by obtaining a profitable platform.
On 12 August 2010, the Group acquired The Route Development Group Limited for initial cash consideration of 8.0m and further performance-related consideration of up to 1.3m payable over the next two years.
The acquisition provides the Groups Events segment with a face-to-face networking event serving the Groups airline and airport customers, which is highly complementary to the Groups existing airline data and schedules business.
On 10 November 2010, the Group acquired the Publishing Expo business, a tradeshow serving the UK publishing industry, for cash consideration of 0.3m.
The acquisition adds a further industry leading event to the Group and the March 2011 edition will be co-located with the Groups existing Technology For Marketing & Advertising and Online Advertising and Affiliate Expo events.
Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring acquisitions On 26 April 2010 the following transactions took place: The Group acquired the remaining 62.03% equity interest in PR Newswire do Brasil for initial cash consideration of $1.0m 0.7m with further performancerelated consideration of up to $0.2m 0.1m, payable over the next two years.
PR Newswire do Brasil was previously accounted for as an associate: no gain or loss has been recognised as a result of remeasuring the previous equity interest to fair value.
The Group purchased the remaining 10% equity interest in PR Newswire Argentina for cash consideration of $40,000 27,000.
The transaction has been accounted for as an equity transaction in accordance with IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised 2008 since control was held by the Group prior to the acquisition of the remaining 10% interest.
Transaction balances are not included in the above tables.
On 28 April 2010, a Group subsidiary, CNW Group Limited, acquired dna13 for initial cash consideration of CAD6.1m 4.0m and further performance-related consideration of up to CAD0.9m 0.6m.
dna13 owns unique software allowing public relations practitioners to manage, monitor and measure the success of their communications campaigns.
On 25 June 2010, the Group acquired Corporate360, a Hong Kong based corporate communications solution provider, for initial cash consideration of $0.4m 0.2m with further performance-based consideration of up to $1.0m 0.7m payable over the next three years.
The acquisition of Corporate360 will allow expansion of the Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring segment in Asia, by expanding service delivery capability and by offering a more sophisticated and engaging set of communication tools.
On 18 October 2010, the Group acquired Hors Antenne, a leading provider of media targeting information to the European French-speaking markets, for initial cash consideration of 6.0m 5.3m and further performance-related consideration of up to 3.0m 2.7m payable over the next two years.
In addition to adding profitable revenue to the Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring segments successful European targeting business, the acquisition will enhance and expand the range of targeting and monitoring services Hors Antenne is able to offer its customers.
Data Services acquisitions On 20 April 2010, the Group acquired SharedVue, a web-based marketing business, for initial cash consideration of $0.4m 0.2m, with further performancerelated consideration of up to $30.0m 19.5m payable over the next three years.
The acquisition within the Data Services segment will enhance and expand presence in the fast growing web-based marketing space.
On 5 May 2010, the Group acquired selected assets of CenTradeX Inc. a provider of market intelligence tools, for initial cash consideration of $0.5m 0.3m with further performance-related consideration of up to $0.1m 0.1m payable over the next two years.
The acquisition will enable the Data Services segment to enhance the user interface and analytical tools for its market leading PIERS Global Intelligence product portfolio.
On 10 September 2010, the Group acquired Shanghai Leadway E-Commerce Co. Limited, trading as UM Paper, for initial cash consideration $0.4m 0.3m and further performance-related consideration of up to $0.4m 0.3m payable over the next two years.
The information and analytical services business will assist the Group in fulfilling its ambition to become the leading provider for the paper and board industry in China.
On 7 October 2010, the Group acquired certain software and intellectual property assets of Triton Works LLC Triton JOC Exchange for initial cash payment of $0.5m 0.3m and further performance-related consideration of up to $36.0m 23.0m, payable in each of the years 201115.
Triton is a launch business with an objective to create electronic market places for the trading of container slots on ships.
The Group intends to use the industry position, access to carrier industry companies and media assets within the Data Services segment to grow the Triton business.
On 1 November 2010, the Group acquired Lead-In Research Limited, a boutique sales lead business, for initial cash consideration of 1.2m and further performance-related consideration of up to 0.3m payable at the end of 2010.
The acquisition will enhance the current product offering of the Groups ABI business within the Data Services segment.
132 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 29.
Acquisitions continued Online Marketing Services acquisitions On 23 February 2010, the Group acquired Game Advertising Online GAO, a banner advertising agency serving advertising publishers in the online video game industry, for initial cash consideration of $0.9m 0.6m, deferred consideration of $0.1m 0.1m and further performance-related consideration of up to $7.0m 4.4m payable over the next year.
GAO will diversify the games industry revenue stream within the Online Marketing Services segment and deepen business relationships with online game publishers.
On 31 August 2010, the Group acquired Astound LLC, a US virtual career fairs business, for initial cash consideration of $0.1m 0.1m and further performance-related consideration of up to $3.0m 1.9m payable over the next three years.
Astound LLC is a highly complimentary acquisition to the virtual events business, providing a new customer base and further exposure to an emerging market.
On 15 October 2010, the Group acquired OBGYN.
net, a womens health website for obstetrics and gynaecology professionals and consumers, for cash consideration of $0.8m 0.4m.
net has strong brand recognition as one of the leading sites focusing on womens health issues.
Within the Online Marketing Services segment, it will add to the Groups online resources for healthcare professionals.
31 December 2009 acquisitions The Group completed five acquisitions during 2009.
On 3 July 2009, the Group acquired Iasist S. A. for a total cash consideration of 6.4m 5.5m.
Iasist S. A. is a provider of benchmarking data and software to regional health authorities, hospitals and other health service providers, principally in Spain and Portugal.
Iasist S. A. is reported within the Data Services segment.
On 3 July 2009, the Group acquired the remaining 48% of the voting rights of RISI Inc. for a total cash consideration of $14.3m 8.7m.
This equity purchase brings UBMs total shareholding in RISI Inc. to 79% 2008: 52%, although 100% of the voting rights are now owned 2008: 52%.
RISI Inc. provides online and printed market, pricing, news and analysis and benchmarking products and services on the forest product industry.
RISI Inc is reported within the Data Services segment.
On 31 July 2009, the Group acquired The Fuel Team for an initial cash consideration of $2.5m 1.5m, with a further performance-related consideration of up to $4.5m 2.8m payable over the next three years.
The Fuel Team builds and hosts specialist website modules or, microsites for communications professional working in businesses, healthcare and not-for-profit organisations.
The Fuel Team is reported within the Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring segment.
On 27 August 2009, the Group acquired a 70% interest in the China International Optoelectronic Expo CIOE for a total cash consideration of $5.0m 3.0m.
CIOE is the worlds largest optoelectronics event held annually in Shenzhen.
The event covers all aspects of the market, including laser and infrared applications, precision optics, optical communications and LEDs.
CIOE was allocated to the Events segment and was subsequently transferred at cost to the joint venture eMedia Asia Limited on 30 December 2009.
On 14 December 2009, the Group acquired Virtual Press Office for an initial cash consideration of $6.5m 4.0m, with a further performance-related consideration of up to $3.5m 2.2m payable over the next three years.
Virtual Press Office is the market-leading provider of communications and marketing services to live event organisers, exhibitors and attendees.
Virtual Press Office is reported within the Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring segment.
The Group acquired 100% of the voting rights in all cases where acquisitions involved the purchase of companies unless where otherwise stated.
The following table sets out the carrying amounts of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair value in respect of the acquisition of businesses excluding RISI Inc. during 2009: 2009 2009 Fair Acquirees value Carrying to Group Amount m m 6.3 0.1 Intangible assets 0.1 0.1 Property, plant and equipment 2.8 2.8 Cash and cash equivalents 4.5 4.5 Trade and other receivables 13.7 7.5 3.3 4.1 Trade and other payables 1.3 Deferred tax liability 4.6 4.1 9.1 Fair value of net assets 8.4 Goodwill arising on acquisition net of changes in estimates of contingent consideration of 5.7m 17.5 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 133 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Acquisitions continued The total consideration paid and payable on acquisitions is shown below: 2009 m Consideration: 18.3 Cash paid 4.9 Contingent consideration on acquisitions 5.7 Contingent consideration adjustments 17.5 Total consideration As disclosed in Note 1, the acquisition accounting adjustments have been finalised in relation to certain acquisitions which were made in 2009.
The amounts disclosed above have been restated in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The goodwill of 8.4m recognised above for 2009 acquisitions relates to certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated.
These include items such as customer loyalty, market share and a skilled workforce.
The acquisition of RISI Inc. was accounted for using the entity concept method as control was already held by the Group on the date of the acquisition: 2009 m 8.7 Cash paid 0.4 Carrying amount of non-controlling interest on acquisition date 0.2 Remaining non-controlling interest after 3 July 2009 8.5 Recognised in equity Note 28 Intangible assets The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisitions are detailed in the following table: Other As restated Canon acquisitions Total Total 2010 2010 2010 2009 m m m m 2.8 Brands 34.2 10.3 44.5 1.0 Software 3.6 3.6 Order backlog 0.7 3.0 0.1 3.1 Customer relationships 1.0 17.9 9.2 27.1 1.7 Customer contracts and relationships 20.9 9.3 30.2 0.3 Subscription lists 0.3 0.3 0.5 Databases 12.7 0.7 13.4 6.3 Total 67.8 24.2 92.0 The intangible assets acquired in the year ended 31 December 2009 have been restated to reflect the finalisation of acquisition accounting adjustments relating to certain acquisitions made in 2009.
Identification and measurement of intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations requires the use of judgements by management.
For significant acquisitions, management is assisted by the work of external advisors in identifying and calculating the valuation of any intangible assets.
Contingent and deferred consideration The potential undiscounted amount for all future payments that the Group could be required to make under the contingent consideration arrangements are between nil and the maximum amounts disclosed by acquisition on the previous pages: 70.6m in aggregate 2009: 5.0m.
The contingent consideration for each acquisition made during the year is based on the terms set out in the relevant purchase agreements.
The amounts recognised in the above consideration tables as the fair values of contingent considerations have been determined by reference to the projected financial performance in relation to the specific contingent consideration criteria for each acquisition.
134 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 29.
Acquisitions continued The movement in the contingent and deferred consideration payable during the year was: 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 Contingent Deferred Total Contingent Deferred Total m m m m m m 37.0 1.6 38.6 Balance at 1 January 24.6 0.5 25.1 4.9 4.9 Acquisitions 32.0 1.3 33.3 9.1 1.0 10.1 Consideration paid 14.4 0.5 14.9 5.7 5.7 Changes in estimates goodwill 2.0 2.0 Changes in estimates income statement 1.0 1.0 2.5 0.1 2.6 Currency translation 0.5 0.5 24.6 0.5 25.1 Balance at 31 December 39.7 1.3 41.0 Acquisition performance From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2010, Canon has contributed 0.2 m to operating profit of the Group, 0.2 m to profit after tax of the Group and 8.1m to revenue of the Group.
From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2010, the other acquisitions made in 2010 have contributed 7.7m to operating profit of the Group and 23.4m to revenue of the Group.
If all acquisitions had taken place at the beginning of the year, the acquisitions would have contributed 28.0m to operating profit and 100.2m to revenue of the Group.
Acquisitions made in 2009 contributed 2.6m of profit to operating loss and 4.8m to revenue of the Group from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2009.
If the acquisitions had taken place at the beginning of that year, the acquisitions would have contributed 2.8m of profit to operating loss and 9.6m to revenue of the Group.
Cash flow effect of acquisitions The aggregate cash flow effect of acquisitions was as follows: 2010 2009 m m 2.8 Net cash acquired with the subsidiaries 5.2 18.3 Cash paid to acquire subsidiaries 229.9 0.8 Contingent consideration on 2006 acquisitions 0.9 Contingent consideration on 2007 acquisitions 5.1 1.2 7.1 Contingent consideration on 2008 acquisitions 1.9 Contingent consideration on 2009 acquisitions 1.0 Contingent consideration on 2010 acquisitions 5.5 0.9 Deferred consideration on 2006 acquisitions 0.1 Deferred consideration on 2008 acquisitions 0.5 25.6 Net cash outflow on acquisitions 239.6 The Group paid 14.4m of contingent consideration during 2010 in relation to the 2006 acquisition of MediReach Healthcare Communication, the 2007 acquisitions of Vintage Filings LLC, Semiconductor Insights Inc and Notilog, the 2008 acquisitions of Global Games Media and Exposure Events UK Limited, the 2009 acquisition of The Fuel T eam and the 2010 acquisitions of Sign China, E Commerce Expo Limited and Sienna Interlink.
The Group also paid 0.5m of deferred consideration during 2010 in relation to the 2008 acquisition of Sanguine Microelectronics.
The Group paid 9.1m of contingent consideration during 2009 in relation to the 2006 acquisition of MediReach Healthcare Communication, the 2007 acquisitions of Energy Solutions Expo, Semiconductor Insights Inc, How Machines Work Corporation and Portelligent Inc and the 2008 acquisitions of Mass Event Labs, Exposure Events UK Limited, Aerostrategys aviation data business, Next Level, Sanguine Microelectronics, the Sleep Event and the Arc Show.
The Group also paid 1.0m of deferred consideration during 2009 in relation to the 2006 acquisitions of Aviation Industry Group and Thames Gateway Forum and the 2008 acquisition of Sleep Event and the Arc Show.
Under the terms of the relevant sale and purchase agreements, additional consideration was payable if certain revenue and profit targets were met.
None of the contingent or deferred consideration balances are individually material.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 135 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Commitments Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has entered into commercial property and machinery leases under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The future minimum lease payments payable under non-cancellable property operating leases are as follows: Land & Land & Buildings Other Buildings Other 2010 2010 2009 2009 m m m m 30.9 Within 1 year 29.8 5.1 67.1 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 61.0 14.1 Later than 5 years 3.2 6.0 104.0 94.0 19.2 Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The Group has entered into commercial property leases under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have remaining terms of between one and six years, with varying escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The future minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2010 2009 m m 7.8 Within 1 year 6.1 19.8 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 14.7 0.8 Later than 5 years 0.9 28.4 21.7 Capital commitments Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided in the financial statements amounts to 2.7m 2009: 6.8m.
136 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 31.
Principal subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of United Business Media Limited and the principal subsidiaries listed on the table below.
The directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiaries would lead to a statement of excessive length.
The following information relates to those subsidiaries results or financial position of which, in the opinion of the directors, principally contribute to the Group.
Country of incorporation Percentage equity interest at and operation 31 December 2010 USA 100 Canon Communications LLC Canada 50 CNW Group Limited Maypond Holdings Limited Republic of Ireland 100 USA 100 PR Newswire Association, LLC.
Great Britain 100 PR Newswire Europe Limited USA 79 RISI, Inc France 100 Socit dEditions Scientifiques et Culturelles SA Hong Kong 100 UBM Asia Limited Great Britain 100 UBM Aviation Group Limited USA 100 UBM Global Trade, Inc Great Britain 100 UBM Information Limited 1 Singapore 100 UBM Medica Asia Pte Limited Netherlands 100 UBMi B. V. Great Britain 100 United Business Media Luxembourg 100 United Business Media Finance Sarl USA 100 United Business Media Finance, Inc. Great Britain 100 United Business Media Group Limited USA 100 United Business Media, LLC Great Britain 100 United Finance Limited France 100 Vidal S. A.
Republic of Ireland 100 Wenport Limited 1 Formerly CMPMedica Asia Pte Limited All companies stated as being incorporated in Great Britain are registered in England and Wales.
None of the above subsidiaries are held directly by the Company, with the exception of Maypond Holdings Limited.
Related party transactions The Group entered into the following transactions with related parties during the year: Balances Balances owed by owed by due to the due to the Value of Group at Value of Group at 31 December transactions 31 December transactions 2009 2009 Nature of Nature of 2010 2010 Transactions with related parties relationship transactions m m m m 1 0.2 0.2 CMP Weka Verlag GmbH Joint Venture Licensing revenue 0.2 2 0.2 0.3 PR Newswire do Brasil Associate Newswire service Commission and 0.1 Guangzhou Beauty Fair Joint Venture management fees 0.1 0.1 GML Exhibitions Thailand Co Limited Joint Venture Advances 0.3 Shanghai Tekview IC Analysis Technology Co Limited Investment IT services 0.1 1 The CMP Weka Verlag GmbH joint venture was sold on 29 November 2010.
The related party transactions between the Group and CMP Weka Verlag GmbH disclosed above represent transactions until this date.
2 The remaining 62.03% of PR Newswire do Brasil was acquired by the Group on 26 April 2010 full details given in Note 29.
After this date, as the Group owned 100% of the company it is not required to disclose related party transactions.
The disclosures given above represent related party transactions with PR Newswire do Brasil until 26 April 2010.
Transactions and balances owed by due to the Group less than 0.1m.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 137 Section 3: Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Related party transactions continued John Botts, Chairman of the Group, was a director of Convera Inc. an IT consultancy specialising in search technologies, until 8 February 2010.
Convera Inc. is party to a five-year contract with the Group under which it is entitled to receive a share of revenues from certain related products.
Payments under this contract in the year until 8 February 2010 were nil full year 2009: 39,204.
The Group also provided services to Convera Inc. during this period for fees of 1,680 full year 2009: 2,094.
The Group has provided services to Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc, an international publishing, events and electronic information group, during the year for fees of 3,916 2009: 3,569.
John Botts is a director of Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc.
Allen & Company, a US investment bank, provided services to the Group during the year for fees of 2.0m 2009: nil.
John Botts is a senior advisor of Allen & Company.
John Botts was a director of SpinVox Limited until 31 December 2009.
The Group provided services to SpinVox Limited, a voice-to-text conversion application company, during 2009 for fees of 124.
Additionally, Spinvox Limited provided services to the Group during 2009 at a cost of 300.
David Levin, Chief Executive Officer of the Group, was a member of Oxford University Press Finance Committee until 30 September 2009.
The Group has provided services to Oxford University Press, a university publisher, during 2009 of 3,058.
Leaders Quest, a non-profit organisation, organised various management conferences for the Group during the year for fees of 15,000 2009: 7,000.
Lindsay Levin, wife of David Levin, is a partner of Leaders Quest.
IQ Resource, a strategic outsourcing company specialising in business media and information services, provides services to the Group for which the Group paid fees of nil 2009: 137,788.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had a trade payable with IQ Resource of nil 2009: 2,356.
Jonathan Newcomb, a non-executive director of the Group, holds an option over equity shares in IQ Resource.
Microland, an IT infrastructure management outsourcing services provider, has provided services to the Group for fees of 64,170 2009: 162,048 during the year.
During 2010, the Group provided advertising services and event sponsorship to Microland for 3,226 2009: 14,936.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had a trade payable with Microland of nil 2009: 39,339.
Pradeep Kar, a non-executive director of the Group, is founder, chairman and managing director of Microland.
The Group has provided services to the Bank of Ireland, a financial services provider, during the year for fees of nil 2009: 12,000.
T erry Neill, a non-executive director of the Group, was a non-executive director of the Bank of Ireland until 19 May 2010.
Computacenter plc, a provider of IT infrastructure services, provided services to the Group during the year for fees of 146,000 2009: nil.
Greg Lock, a non-executive director of the Group, is the chairman of Computacenter plc.
During the year, the Group has provided services to Target Group, a provider of software and servicing solutions, for fees of 16,568 2009: nil.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had a trade receivable with Target Group of 8,687 2009: nil.
Greg Lock is a non-executive director of Target Group.
Nigel Wilson was Chief Financial Officer of the Group until 7 May 2009.
He was the Senior Independent Director of Halfords Group Plc, a leading retailer.
The Group provided services to Halfords Group Plc, during 2009 for fees of 8,000.
Also, during 2009, the Group participated in the Cycle to Work scheme operated by Halfords Group Plc, with total transactions of 33,243.
Transactions are made on behalf of employees and are recharged in full to employees through monthly payroll.
Transactions with related parties are made at arms length.
Outstanding balances at year-end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash.
There are no bad debt provisions for related party balances as at 31 December 2010, and no related party transactions have been written off during the year.
Unless otherwise stated above there are no amounts owed by or due to related parties by the Group as at 31 December 2010 and 2009.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group Key management personnel are the Groups Executive directors and the following is the aggregate compensation of these directors: 2010 2009 m m 2.0 Short-term employee benefits 2.6 0.2 Post-employment benefits 0.1 Share-based payments 1.3 2.4 4.6 4.0 138 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 33.
Events after the reporting period On 24 January 2011, the Group completed the acquisition of a 65% stake in Rotaforte International Trade Fairs & Media Rotaforte, the owner of Turkeys largest jewellery exhibitions, for initial cash consideration of $1.7m 1.1m and further performance-related consideration of up to $8.1m 5.2m payable over the next two years.
The acquisition of Rotaforte adds a further industry-leading exhibition to the Groups jewellery portfolio within the Events segment, and is in line with the Groups strategy to enhance and expand its international presence in geographic regions of significant growth.
On 6 February 2011, the Group acquired SATTE, Indias largest travel and tourism exhibition, for initial cash consideration of $4.0m 2.5m and further performance related consideration of up to $3.7m 2.3m payable over the next three years.
The SATTE event provides the Group with a leading position in the rapidly-growing Indian travel and tourism industry.
The event is also supported by T3, a controlled circulation monthly publication which will be reported in the Groups Print Magazines division.
On 25 February 2011, the Group entered into a framework agreement to acquire 60% of the Famdent dental exhibition and conference for initial cash consideration of INR 35m 0.5m and further performance-related consideration of up to INR43m 0.6m payable over the next three years.
The transaction is expected to complete in the next three months, subject to regulatory approvals, and will enable the Group to expand its offering in the Indian medical exhibition and conference market.
On 25 February 2011, the Group signed an agreement to dispose of its UK licensed trade portfolio for initial cash consideration of 1.5m and further performance-related consideration of up to 0.2m, payable over the next year.
The sale of the portfolio, expected to complete within the next month, comprises The Publican print magazine title, websites and awards event, together with the Theme and Bar Show brands.
On 28 February 2011, the Group sold its French medical newspaper and magazine business, retaining a 37.1% equity share, for initial cash consideration of 4.4m 3.7m and extended vendor finance of 6.0m 5.1m to the management buy out team.
The business publishes weekly, bi-weekly, monthly and other subscription and controlled circulation titles for the French healthcare professional community.
The transaction further rationalises the Groups print portfolio and continues its progression towards a portfolio of integrated cross-media marketing services designed to serve specific commercial and professional communities.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 139
