Financial statements Statement of Directors responsibilities Annual accounts Directors responsibility statement The Directors are required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the CivilCode in Each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of his or her the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 knowledge: toprepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs ofthe Unilever Group, and the NV and The financial statements which have been prepared in accordance PLC entities, as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the loss and cash flows for that year.
EU and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board in the case of the consolidated financial statements and United The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts, theGroup Kingdom accounting standards in the case of the PLC parent and the NV and PLC entities have used the most appropriate company accounts and United Kingdom accounting standards accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by and Part 9 ofBook 2 of the Dutch Civil Code in the case of the NV reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and thatall parent company accounts, give a true and fair view of the assets, International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group and andas issued by the International Accounting Standards Board theNV and PLC entities taken as a whole.
inthecase of the consolidated financial statements and United The Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the Kingdom accounting standards in the case of the parent company development and performance of the business and the position accounts which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
ofthe Group and the NV and the PLC entities taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that NV and PLC keep they face.
accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy their financial position and which enable the Directors to ensure that the The Directors and their functions are listed on pages 40 and 48. accounts comply with the relevant legislation.
They also have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open Going concern tothem to safeguard the assets of the Group, and to prevent and The activities of the Group, together with the factors likely to affect detectfraud and other irregularities.
its future development, performance the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are This statement, which should be read in conjunction with the described inAbout Unilever and the Financial review 2010 on pages Auditors reports, ismade with a view to distinguishing for 1 to 32.
In addition, we describe in note 15 on pages 98 to 104: the shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its andoftheauditors in relation to the accounts.
financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit and A copy of the financial statements of the Unilever Group liquidity risk.
The maintenance and integrity of the website are the responsibility of the The Group has considerable financial resources together with Directors, and the work carried out by the auditors does not involve established business relationships with many customers and suppliers consideration of these matters.
Accordingly, the auditors accept no in countries throughout the world.
As a consequence, the Directors responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks statements since they were initially placed on the website.
Legislation successfully despite the current uncertain outlook.
in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation from legislation in other jurisdictions.
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to UK law sets out additional responsibilities for the Directors of PLC adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report regarding disclosure of information to auditors.
of these responsibilities is made on page 137.
Internal and disclosure controls and procedures Please refer to pages 33 to 37 for a discussion of Unilevers principal risk factors and to pages 38 and 39 for commentary on the Groups approach to risk management and control.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 69
