Group directory Al Khobar, Saudi Arabia Americas Region Headquarters AVEVA Inc. Busan, South Korea 10350 Richmond Avenue Beijing, China Suite 400 Houston, Texas 77042 Budapest, Hungary USA Calgary, Canada Tel 1 713 977 1225 Fax 1 713 977 1231 Cambridge, UK Chesterfield, UK Asia Pacific Region Headquarters AVEVA Asia Pacific Division Dubai, UAE Level 59, Tower 2 Frankfurt, Germany PETRONAS Twin Towers KLCC 50088 Kuala Lumpur Genoa, Italy MALAYSIA Guangzhou, China Tel 60 0 3 2176 1234 Fax 60 0 3 2176 1334 Hamburg, Germany Hong Kong Europe, Middle East and Africa Region Headquarters AVEVA GmbH Houston, USA Otto-Volger-Str.
7c Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia D-65843 Sulzbach GERMANY Madrid, Spain Tel 49 0 6196 5052 01 Malm, Sweden Fax 49 0 6196 5052 22 Mexico City, Mexico www.
com Melbourne, Australia Moscow, Russia Mumbai, India Oslo, Norway Paris, France Perth, Australia Rio fide Janeiro, Brazil Seoul, South Korea Shanghai, China Singapore St Petersburg, Russia Stavanger, Norway Wilmington, USA Yokohama, Japan The material used in this report is derived from sustainable sources.
It is both part recycled and recyclable and is printed by Royle Print, a Carbon Neutral printing company which holds ISO 14001 environmental accreditation.
AVEVA Group plc Other information Annual report 2010 88 2 AVE ar10 back.
indd 60 01 06 2010 16:42:58 Who we are A FTSE 250 company, headquartered in Cambridge, UK, AVEVA is an About the AVEVA acknowledged industry leader in Academic Initiative engineering design and information Skills shortages continue to be a challenge in most engineering management software.
companies and it will take some time for the recent increases in the number of engineering students at universities and What we do technical colleges to overcome the generation gap that currently AVEVA creates and supplies the most powerful technology available for the exists in the market.
engineering design, construction and lifecycle support of all types of plant In recognition of this, and in addition to its own in-house graduate and marine assets in the oil and gas, power generation, process plant, minerals recruitment schemes, AVEVA will continue to work with educational processing and shipbuilding industries.
At every stage of the project lifecycle establishments and government bodies around the world to AVEVA solutions deliver high productivity and information integrity, saving time support initiatives aimed at narrowing the skills gap.
and money, improving project quality and reducing business risk.
AVEVA sees this as a vital investment that will bring long-term benefits to the engineering world.
How we do it AVEVA maintains its clear industry leadership through a combination of pioneering in-house software development, carefully selected technology acquisition and strategic Education institutes covered by the AVEVA Academic Initiative include: partnerships.
It continually extends the capabilities of its solution to increase z Brazil: Pontificia Universidade Catlica do Rio fide Janeiro PUC-Rio: z Malaysia: MICET MARA Institute of Chemical Engineering Technology the competitive advantage of its customers, while simultaneously protecting SENAI Brazil: UFF Universidad Federal Fluminense FCET: Universiti Malaysia Pahang: Universiti Teknologi Mara their investment in engineering information.
z Bulgaria: Trieste University z Peru: Universidad Tecnologica del Peru z China: Jiangsu University of Science and Technology: Shanghai z Portugal: Instituto Superior Tecnico Lisboa Jiaotong University z Russia: D. Mendeleyev University of Chemical Technology of Russia: z Croatia: FSB Zagreb: Rijeka University Far East State Technical University named by V. V. Kuibisheva: Gubkin Russian State University of Oil and Gas: Petrovskii College: z Canada: Southern Alberta Institute of Technology SAIT Saint-Petersburg State Institute of Technology: State Marine our z Finland: Savonia Ammattikorkeakoulua Kuntayhtymn: Turun Technical University of Saint-Petersburg ammattikorkeakoulu z Serbia: University of Belgrade: Institute for Machine Mechanics: strategy z Germany: Fachhochschule Kln: TU Dresden: Hochschule Beograd Serbia fr Angewandte Wissenschaften Hamburg: Technische z Spain: Universidad fide Castilla La Mancha: Universidad fide Zaragoza Fachhochschule Berlin z Singapore: Singapore Polytechnic: Ngee Ann Polytechnic School z Greece: NTUA AVEVAs philosophy of Continual Progression meets the challenges of increasingly complex, integrated of Engineering: Institute of Technical Education z India: AMET University z Sweden: KTH Aeronautical and Vehicle Engineering in Sweden: engineering projects by delivering powerful, innovative technologies which anticipate and lead z Ireland: National Maritime College of Ireland Pluskompetens: Vision Education the way in developing new capabilities and more productive working methods.
z Italy: Genoa University: Naples University: Naval Academy of Livorno z Taiwan: National Cheng Kung University: National Kaohsiung Navy : Trieste University: Udine University Marine University z Korea: Changwon College: Chungnam University: DongEui Institute z Turkey: Piri Reis High School of Technology: Gyeongnam Provincial Geochang College: Gyeongsang z United Kingdom: Newcastle University: Teesside University: National University: Jeonnam Provincial College: Jinan Industrial University College London: Universities of Glasgow and Strathclyde High School: Inha Technical College: Inha University: Koje College: Developing global Leadership through Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology KAIST : z Ukraine: National Technical University of Ukraine: National Kwangwoon University: Mokpo Industrial High School: Mokpo University of Shipbuilding named by Admiral Makarov networks progression Science College: Seoul National University: Ulsan Science College: z United States: Houston Community College: Macomb Community Pusan National University: Yeungjin College: Yonam Institute of In a global marketplace, projects and assets are managed on an international AVEVAs leadership comes from vision and a sustained commitment to technological College: Naval Postgraduate School: San Jacinto College: University Digital Technology scale.
AVEVA supports this by delivering the most advanced enabling technologies progress.
For over 40 years, AVEVA has led the way by pioneering developments of Houston: West Virginia University and close customer support through a steadily expanding global network which anticipate and enable the most far-reaching transformations in project of offices and strategic partnerships.
for more information: for more information: turn to page 02 turn to page 04 4 AVE ar10 cover.
indd 1 01 06 2010 16:41:57 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2010 AVEVA Group plc High Cross Madingley Road Cambridge CB3 0HB UK Tel 44 0 1223 556611 Fax 44 0 1223 556622 AVEVA Group plc www.
com Annual report 2010 4 AVE ar10 cover.
