co. uk 52 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 1.
GENERAL INFORmATION cookson Group plc the company is a public limited company registered in england and Wales and listed on the London stock exchange.
its registered address is shown on page 120. the nature of the operations and principal activities of the company and its subsidiary and associate companies the Group are set out in the Operating Review on pages 9 to 15. the financial statements, which were authorised by the Directors for issue on 1 march 2011, are presented in millions of pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the company.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.7. the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with international Financial Reporting standards as adopted by the eu iFRs.
the financial statements of the company-only have been prepared in accordance with united Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting practice uK GAAp, as disclosed in note 1 to the company financial statements.
ADOPTION OF NEw AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS 2.1 REVISED AND AmENDED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS the following revised and amended standards and interpretations, which have all been endorsed by the eu, have been adopted by the Group in these consolidated financial statements.
With the possible exception of the iFRs 3 Revised requirement to expense acquisition costs, none of these revised and amended standards and interpretations is expected to have a material impact on the Groups net cash flows, financial position, total comprehensive income or earnings per share.
iFRs 1 Revised, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, simplifies the structure of iFRs 1 without making any technical changes.
Amendments to iFRs 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010, introduces two additional exemptions for first-time adopters in relation to oil and gas assets.
Amendments to iFRs 2, Group Cash-settled Share-based Payments Transactions, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010, provides a clear basis to determine the classification of share-based payment awards in both consolidated and separate financial statements.
iFRs 3 Revised, Business Combinations, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, harmonises business combination accounting with us GAAp.
the standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations, but with some significant changes.
For example, all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with some contingent payments subsequently remeasured at fair value through profit or loss: goodwill and non-controlling interests may be calculated on a gross or net basis: and all transaction costs, which under previous practice were treated as part of the cost of a business combination, are to be expensed.
iAs 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests where there is no change in control to be recorded in equity.
such transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses in the income statement.
Amendment to iAs 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, for Eligible Hedged Items, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, clarifies how to apply the principles that determine whether a hedged risk or portion of cash flows is eligible for designation.
iFRic 12, Service Concession Arrangements, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 29 march 2009, clarifies existing requirements in relation to accounting for government sponsored infrastructure projects.
iFRic 15, Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010, standardises accounting practice for the recognition of revenue by real estate developers for sales before construction is complete.
iFRic 16, Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, clarifies which currency exposures qualify for hedge accounting: which entity within a group can hold the hedging instrument: and how to determine the amounts to be reclassified from equity to profit or loss for both the hedging instrument and the hedged item when an investment in a foreign operation is disposed of.
iFRic 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010, clarifies how an entity should measure distributions of assets, other than cash, when it pays dividends to its owners.
iFRic 18, Transfers of Assets from Customers, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 november 2009, clarifies the accounting for arrangements where an item of property, plant and equipment provided by the customer is used to provide an ongoing service.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 53 2.
ADOPTION OF NEw AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS CONTINUED 2.2 STANDARDS, AmENDmENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS THAT ARE NOT YET EFFECTIVE the following revised and amended standards and interpretations have been issued but are not yet effective and therefore have not been adopted by the Group in these consolidated financial statements.
none of these revised and amended standards and interpretations is expected to have a material impact on the Groups net cash flows, financial position, total comprehensive income or earnings per share.
iFRs 9, Financial Instruments, which has not yet been endorsed by the eu and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, is the first part of a new standard on classification and measurement of financial assets that will replace iAs 39. iAs 24 Revised, Related Party Disclosures, which has been endorsed by the eu and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011, removes the requirement for government-related entities to disclose details of transactions with the government and other government-related entities and clarifies and simplifies the definition of a related party.
Amendment to iAs 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation, which has been endorsed by the eu and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010, addresses the accounting for rights issues that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the issuer.
Amendment to iFRic 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and Their Interaction, entitled Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement, which has been endorsed by the eu and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011, applies to companies that are required to make minimum funding contributions to a defined benefit pension plan.
iFRic 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, which has been endorsed by the eu and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010, clarifies the accounting treatment for equity instruments that are used to extinguish financial liabilities.
Amendments to iFRs 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, a Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters, which has been endorsed by the eu and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010, ensures that first-time adopters of iFRs benefit from the same transition provisions that amendments to iFRs 7 provide to current iFRs preparers: and b Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters, which has not yet been endorsed by the eu and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011, provides relief for first-time adopters of iFRs from having to reconstruct transactions that occurred before their date of transition to iFRs and provides guidance for entities emerging from severe hyperinflation.
Amendments to iFRs 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, which has not yet been endorsed by the eu and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011, enhances the reporting of transfers of financial assets.
Amendments to iAs 12, Income Taxes, Deferred tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets, which has not yet been endorsed by the eu and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012, provides a practical approach for measuring deferred tax assets and liabilities when investment properties are measured at fair value.
com 18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Our Financials Our Governance Our Business www.
co. uk 54 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 3.
SUmmARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 3.1 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING With the exception of certain items noted below, which are carried at fair value, the consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, in accordance with the companies Act 2006 and iFRs.
3.2 BASIS FOR PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEmENTS ON A GOING CONCERN BASIS the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group.
3.3 DISCLOSURE OF ExCEPTIONAL ITEmS iAs 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, provides no definitive guidance as to the format of the income statement, but states key lines which should be disclosed.
it also encourages the disclosure of additional line items and the reordering of items presented on the face of the income statement when appropriate for a proper understanding of the entitys financial performance.
in accordance with iAs 1, the company has adopted a policy of disclosing separately on the face of its Group income statement the effect of any components of financial performance considered by the Directors to be exceptional, or for which separate disclosure would assist both in a better understanding of the financial performance achieved and in making projections of future results.
Both materiality and the nature and function of the components of income and expense are considered in deciding upon such presentation.
such items may include, inter alia, amortisation charges relating to intangible assets, the financial effect of major restructuring and integration activity, profits or losses relating to non-current assets, gains or losses relating to employee benefits plans, finance costs, profits or losses arising on business disposals, and other items, including the taxation impact of the aforementioned items, which have a significant impact on the Groups results either due to their size or nature.
3.4 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION the consolidated financial statements of the Group incorporate the financial statements of the company and entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries.
control exists when the company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
in assessing whether control exists, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are taken into account.
the results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Group income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those detailed herein to ensure that the Group financial statements are prepared on a consistent basis.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups interest therein.
non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination together with the non-controlling interests share of profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income since the date of the combination.
total comprehensive income is attributed to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
3.5 BUSINESS COmBINATIONS Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which the Group obtains control.
the Group recognises goodwill at the acquisition date, measured as the excess of the aggregate of i the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred: ii the amount of any non-controlling interest acquired: and iii in a business combination achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the Groups existing equity interest in the acquiree: over the net of the acquisition-date fair value amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Acquisition-related costs, with the exception of costs relating to the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed in the periods in which the costs are incurred.
contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
if the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 55 3.
SUmmARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.6 REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods supplied and services rendered to customers, after deducting sales allowances and value-added taxes.
Revenue is recognised when the risk of loss transfers to the customer, depending on individual customer terms at the time of dispatch, delivery or upon formal customer acceptance, as appropriate.
provision is made for returns where appropriate.
3.7 FOREIGN CURRENCIES the individual financial statements of each Group entity are prepared in their functional currency, which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which that entity operates.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each entity are translated into pounds sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group.
a Reporting foreign currency transactions in functional currency transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each subsequent balance sheet date: i Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
exchange differences arising on the settlement or retranslation of monetary items are recognised in the income statement: ii non-monetary items measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated: and iii exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the income statement except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income, in which case any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised in other comprehensive income.
b Translation from functional currency to presentational currency When the functional currency of a Group entity is different from the Groups presentational currency pounds sterling, its results and financial position are translated into the presentational currency as follows: i Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date: ii income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates for the year, except where the use of such average rates does not approximate the exchange rate at the date of the transaction, in which case the transaction rate is used: and iii All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the translation reserve in equity and are reclassified to profit or loss in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed of.
c Net investment in foreign operations exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of a reporting entitys net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in the income statement in the separate financial statements of the reporting entity or the foreign operation as appropriate.
in the consolidated Group financial statements such exchange differences are initially recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the translation reserve in equity and reclassified to profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
3.8 EmPLOYEE BENEFITS the Group operates a number of pension plans, both of the defined contribution and defined benefit type.
a Defined contribution pension plans contributions to the Groups defined contribution plans are recognised as employee benefits expense when they fall due.
prepaid contributions, to the extent that they result in either a cash refund or a reduction in future payments, are recognised as an asset.
Outstanding contributions are recognised as a liability.
co. uk 56 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 3.
SUmmARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.8 EmPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED b Defined benefit pension plans the net surplus or net liability recognised in the balance sheet for the Groups defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, less the fair value of the plan assets.
the defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method and by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates on high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Any asset recognised in respect of a surplus arising from this calculation is limited to the sum of unrecognised past service costs plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
pension expense for the Groups defined benefit plans is recognised as follows: i Within trading profit: current service cost representing the increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee service in the current year: and past service cost representing the increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee service in prior periods that arises from changes made to the benefits under the plans in the current year.
to the extent that the changes to benefits vest immediately, past service costs are recognised immediately, otherwise they are recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
ii Within ordinary finance costs: interest cost on the liabilities of the plans calculated by reference to the plan liabilities and discount rate at the beginning of the year and allowing for changes during the year.
iii Within finance income: expected return on the assets of the plans calculated by reference to the plan assets and long-term expected rate of return at the beginning of the year and allowing for changes during the year.
iv Within the Group statement of comprehensive income: Actuarial gains and losses arising on the assets and liabilities of the plans.
v Gains and losses arising on settlements and curtailments are recognised in the income statement in the same line as the item that gave rise to the settlement or curtailment or, if material, separately reported as a component of profit from operations.
c Share-based payments the Group operates a number of different share-based payment arrangements for its employees of both the equity-settled and cash-settled type.
equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
the fair value determined at the date of grant takes account of the effect of market-based vesting conditions, such as total shareholder Return tsR, and is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity.
the cumulative expense recognised is adjusted for the best estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest and for the effect of other non market-based vesting conditions, such as growth in Headline earnings per share, which are not included in the fair value determined at the date of grant.
For grants with market-based conditions attaching to them, fair value is measured using a form of stochastic option pricing model.
For consistency, this method has also been used to value executive share options and stock appreciation rights granted to executives whose options are not subject to the additional market-based performance conditions.
For all other grants, fair value is measured using the Blackscholes model.
For cash-settled share-based payments, the fair value of the amount payable to the employee is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities.
the fair value of the amount payable is initially measured at grant date using a form of stochastic option pricing model and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment.
the liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date.
Any changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised in the income statement.
3.9 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPmENT COSTS expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
expenditure on development activities is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development.
All other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 57 3.
SUmmARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.10 FINANCE COSTS AND FINANCE INCOmE Finance costs include: interest on loans, overdrafts, factoring arrangements and finance lease obligations: amortisation of the costs incurred in connection with the arrangement of borrowings: the ineffective portion of the change in fair value of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges: interest on retirement benefit obligations: and the unwinding of discounts on long-term provisions.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
Finance income includes: interest receivable from funds invested including available-for-sale financial assets : the expected return from retirement benefit assets: and the unwinding of discounts on long-term receivables.
3.11 TAxATION tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that they relate to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income or directly to equity, in which case the associated tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
the Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
the carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
3.12 GOODwILL Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary or associate is initially recognised in accordance with the accounting policy in note 3.5 and is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
impairment testing is carried out annually, as described in notes 3.15, 5.2 and 22.
On disposal of a subsidiary or an associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
co. uk 58 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 3.
SUmmARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPmENT Freehold land is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Other items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
subsequent costs are capitalised only when it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits flowing to the Group and when they can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Freehold land is not depreciated as it has an infinite life.
Depreciation on other items of property, plant and equipment begins when the asset is available for use and is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis so as to write off the cost less residual value of the asset over its estimated useful life as follows: Asset category Estimated useful life Freehold property between 10 and 50 years Leasehold property the term of the lease plant and machinery motor vehicles between 1 and 5 years information technology equipment between 1 and 5 years other between 5 and 15 years the depreciation method used, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed and changed, if appropriate, at least at each financial yearend.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, as described in note 3.15.
Gains and losses arising on disposals are determined by comparing sales proceeds with carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement.
3.14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS OTHER THAN GOODwILL intangible assets other than goodwill are recognised on business combinations if they are separable, or if they arise from contractual or other legal rights, and their fair value can be measured reliably.
they are amortised over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Asset category Estimated useful life customer relationships 20 years trade names 20 years intellectual property rights 10 years Other between 5 and 10 years 3.15 ImPAIRmENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit cGu exceeds its recoverable amount.
the recoverable amount of an asset or cGu is the higher of i its fair value less costs to sell and ii its value in use, which is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or cGu, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or cGu.
impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement.
a Goodwill Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Groups cGus expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
the Groups cGus are disclosed in note 21 and represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored.
cGus to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the cGu may be impaired.
if the recoverable amount of the cGu is less than its carrying amount, the resulting impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the cGu and then to the other assets of the cGu pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the cGu.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 59 3.
SUmmARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.15 ImPAIRmENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED b Other tangible and intangible assets At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amount of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
if any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cGu to which the asset belongs.
An impairment loss recognised in a prior year for an asset other than goodwill may be reversed where there has been a change in the estimates used to measure the assets recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised.
Where an impairment loss is subsequently reversed, the carrying amount of the asset or cGu is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cGu in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss for tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement.
3.16 INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and one or more other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control exists when the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
the Group conducts its joint venture arrangements through jointly controlled entities and accounts for them using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for under iFRs 5.
Where the Group transacts with its jointly controlled entities, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint venture.
3.17 INVENTORIES inventories are stated at the lower of cost using the first in, first out method and net realisable value.
cost comprises expenditure incurred in purchasing or manufacturing inventories together with all other costs directly incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition and, where appropriate, attributable production overheads based on normal activity levels.
net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
the amount of any write-down of inventories to net realisable value is recognised as an expense in the year in which the write-down occurs.
in addition to the inventory recorded in the balance sheet, the Group holds precious metals under consignment arrangements, further details of which are given in note 27.
3.18 NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS non-current assets or a collection of assets and liabilities in a disposal group are separately classified as held for sale in the balance sheet when their carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
immediately prior to being classified as held for sale the measurement of the assets and all assets and liabilities in a disposal group is brought up to date in accordance with applicable iFRs.
then, on initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal groups are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale are included in profit or loss, as are gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement.
Discontinued operations are those operations that can be clearly distinguished from the rest of the Group, both operationally and for financial reporting purposes, that have either been disposed of or classified as held for sale and which represent a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations.
co. uk 60 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 3.
SUmmARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.19 LEASES Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
a Finance leases Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
the corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to the income statement.
b Operating leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
3.20 FINANCIAL INSTRUmENTS Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Group balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
a Equity instruments equity instruments issued by the company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
b Derivative financial instruments the Group uses derivative financial instruments in the form of forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps to manage the effects of its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates on its borrowings and borrowing costs.
in accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
the method of recognising the gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged note 4.2. the fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date.
the fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
c Non-derivative financial instruments non-derivative financial instruments include investments in equity and debt securities, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, and trade and other payables.
non-derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, demand deposits and short-term highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Group statement of cash flows.
Loans and borrowings comprise secured and unsecured loans and obligations under finance leases note 3.19. the Groups investments in equity and debt securities are classified as available-for-sale investments.
subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at fair value and changes therein are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the investment revaluation reserve in equity.
When an investment is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss in the investment revaluation reserve is transferred to profit or loss.
All other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method, less impairment losses.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 61 3.
SUmmARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.21 PROVISIONS provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects both the current market assessment of the time value of money and the specific risks associated with the obligation.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost note 3.10.
3.22 USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL mEASURES the company uses a number of non-Generally Accepted Accounting practice non-GAAp financial measures in addition to those reported in accordance with iFRs.
Because iFRs measures reflect all items which affect reported performance, the Directors believe that certain non-GAAp measures, which reflect what they view as the underlying performance of the Group, are important and should be considered alongside the iFRs measures.
the following non-GAAp measures are referred to in this annual report.
a Net sales value net sales value is calculated as the total of revenue less the amount included therein related to any precious metal component.
the Directors believe that net sales value provides an important measure of the underlying sales performance of the Groups precious metals division.
b Return on sales and return on net sales value Return on sales is calculated as trading profit divided by revenue.
Return on net sales value is calculated as trading profit divided by net sales value.
the Directors believe that return on sales provides an important measure of the underlying trading performance of the Group and the Groups ceramics and electronics divisions and that return on net sales value provides an important measure of the underlying trading performance of the Groups precious metals division.
c Underlying revenue growth underlying revenue growth measures the organic growth in revenue from one year to the next after eliminating the effects of changes in exchange rates and commodity metals prices and the effects of business acquisitions, disposals and closures.
the Directors believe that underlying revenue growth gives an important measure of the organic revenue generation capacity of the Group.
d Trading profit trading profit is defined as profit from operations before exceptional items.
the Directors believe that trading profit is an important measure of the underlying trading performance of the Group.
e Headline profit before tax Headline profit before tax is calculated as the net total of trading profit, plus the Groups share of post-tax profit of joint ventures and total net finance costs associated with ordinary activities.
the Directors believe that headline profit before tax provides an important measure of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
f Headline earnings per share Headline earnings per share is calculated as headline profit before tax and after income tax costs associated with ordinary activities and profit attributable to non-controlling interests, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
the Directors believe that headline earnings per share provides an important measure of the underlying earnings capacity of the Group.
g Free cash flow Free cash flow, defined as net cash flow from operating activities after net outlays for the purchase and sale of property, plant and equipment, dividends from joint ventures and dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders, but before additional funding contributions to Group pension plans, is disclosed on the face of the Group statement of cash flows.
the Directors believe that free cash flow gives an important measure of the underlying cash generation capacity of the Group.
co. uk 62 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 3.
SUmmARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.22 USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL mEASURES CONTINUED h Average working capital to sales ratio the average working capital to sales ratio is calculated as the percentage of average working capital balances to the annualised revenue for the year.
Average working capital comprising inventories, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables is calculated as the average of the six previous month-end balances, and annualised revenue is derived from the revenue for the previous six months.
the Directors believe that the average working capital to sales ratio provides an important measure of the underlying effectiveness with which working capital balances are managed throughout the Group.
i EBITDA eBitDA is calculated as the total of trading profit before depreciation charges.
the Directors believe that eBitDA provides an important measure of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
j Net interest net interest is calculated as interest payable on borrowings less interest receivable, excluding any item therein considered by the Directors to be exceptional.
k Interest cover interest cover is the ratio of eBitDA to net interest.
the Directors believe that interest cover provides an important measure of the underlying financial position of the Group.
l Net debt net debt comprises the net total of current and non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings and cash and short-term deposits.
the Directors believe that net debt is an important measure as it shows the Groups aggregate net indebtedness to banks and other external financial institutions.
m Net debt to EBITDA net debt to eBitDA is the ratio of net debt at the year-end to eBitDA for that year.
the Directors believe that net debt to eBitDA provides an important measure of the underlying financial position of the Group.
n Return on net assets Return on net assets ROnA is calculated as trading profit plus share of post-tax profit of joint ventures, divided by average net operating assets being the average over the previous 12 months of property, plant and equipment, trade working capital and other operating receivables and payables.
the Directors believe that ROnA provides an important measure of the underlying financial performance of the Groups divisions.
o Return on investment Return on investment ROi is calculated as trading profit after tax plus share of post-tax profit of joint ventures, divided by invested capital being shareholders funds plus net debt, employee benefits net surpluses and net liabilities and goodwill previously written off to, or amortised against, reserves.
the Directors believe that ROi provides an important measure of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 63 4.
FINANCIAL RISK mANAGEmENT 4.1 FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS a Foreign exchange risk the Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from transactions and borrowings that are denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling.
it uses various financial instruments to manage these exposures, as explained below.
Recognised assets and liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge against the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability that are attributable to a particular risk and which could affect profit or loss.
such forward foreign exchange contracts are accounted for as fair value hedges in accordance with the policy in note 4.2 a.
Forecast transactions Forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge against the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that might arise from the fluctuation of exchange rates in relation to highly probable forecast transactions that are denominated in currencies other than its own functional currencies and which might affect profit or loss.
such forward foreign exchange contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges in accordance with the policy in note 4.2 b. net investment hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign currency non-derivative financial instruments are used to hedge against the Groups exposure to changes in the value of its investment in the net assets of its foreign operations that arise from fluctuations in exchange rates.
such financial instruments are accounted for as net investment hedges in accordance with the policy in note 4.2 c. b Credit risk credit risk is the risk that the Group may suffer financial loss as a result of a third party failing to carry out its obligations under a financial instrument.
the Groups main exposure to credit risk is in relation to its trade receivables.
As detailed in note 26, the Group is not exposed to any significant concentration of credit risk.
c Liquidity risk the Group treasury function ensures that there are sufficient levels of committed facilities, cash and cash equivalents to enable the Group at all times to meet its financial commitments and operate within its financial covenants.
Details of the Groups committed facilities and covenant compliance can be found in the Financial Review on page 19. d Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk the Groups interest rate risk arises primarily from its borrowings.
An analysis of the currency and interest rate profiles of the Groups borrowings is shown in note 37.
Borrowings at floating rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk and borrowings at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
the Groups policy is to borrow a mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
From time to time the Group manages its cash flow and fair value interest rate risk by using interest rate swaps, which have the economic effect of changing the interest rate profile of the Groups borrowings.
co. uk 64 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 4.
FINANCIAL RISK mANAGEmENT CONTINUED 4.2 HEDGING ACTIVITIES the Group designates certain financial instruments as either: a hedges of the exposure to changes in the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities that are attributable to a particular risk and could affect profit or loss fair value hedges : b hedges of the exposure to variability in cash flows that are attributable to a particular risk associated with a highly probable forecast transaction and could affect profit or loss cash flow hedges : or c hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
At the inception of the transaction, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item.
the Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the financial instruments that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
a Fair value hedges changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recognised within trading profit in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged assets or liabilities that are subject to the hedged risk.
b Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the hedging reserve in equity.
the ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately within trading profit, or within finance costs in the case of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges.
When the forecast transaction that was being hedged is realised and affects profit or loss, the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is removed from the hedging reserve and recognised in the income statement in the same period.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from the hedging reserve and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or designation of the hedge relationship is revoked, but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in the hedging reserve and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction takes place.
if the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative gain or loss is removed from the hedging reserve and recognised immediately in the income statement.
c Net investment hedges the portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the translation reserve in equity and is subsequently recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
the ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised immediately within trading profit in the income statement.
4.3 CAPITAL mANAGEmENT the Group considers its capital to be equal to the sum of its total equity and net debt.
it monitors its capital using a number of key performance indicators, including free cash flow, average working capital to sales ratios, net debt to eBitDA ratios, ROnA and ROi note 3.22. the Groups objectives when managing its capital are: to ensure that the Group and all of its businesses are able to operate as going concerns and ensure that the Group operates within the financial covenants contained within its debt facilities: to maximise shareholder value through maintaining an appropriate balance between the Groups equity and net debt: to have available the necessary financial resources to allow the Group to invest in areas that may deliver acceptable future returns to investors: and to maintain sufficient financial resources to mitigate against risks and unforeseen events.
the Group operated comfortably within the requirements of its debt covenants throughout the year and has substantial liquidity headroom within its committed debt facilities.
Details of the Groups covenant compliance and committed debt facilities can be found in the Financial Review on page 19. the Group has established new three-year performance targets page 5 that include maintaining a strong financial position with a year-end net debt to eBitDA ratio of not more than 1.5 times and dividend growth at least in line with earnings growth.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 65 5.
CRITICAL JUDGEmENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTImATION UNCERTAINTY 5.1 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPmENT it is Group policy to depreciate its property, plant and equipment assets, except freehold land, on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
this policy applies an appropriate matching of the revenue earned with the capital costs of production and delivery of goods and services.
A key element of this policy is the estimate of the useful life applied to each category of property, plant and equipment which, in turn, determines the annual depreciation charge.
Variations in asset lives could significantly impact Group profit through an increase or decrease in the depreciation charge.
5.2 GOODwILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS the Directors use their judgement to determine the extent to which goodwill and other capitalised intangible assets have a value that will benefit the performance of the Group over future periods.
to assist in making this judgement, the Directors undertake an assessment, at least annually, of the carrying value of the Groups capitalised goodwill and other intangible assets, using discounted cash flow forecasts to derive the value in use to the Group of the capitalised assets.
in the assessment undertaken in 2010, further details of which are given in note 22, value in use was derived from discounted five-year cash flow projections, using a growth rate of 3% in the years beyond the projection period and pre-tax discount rates.
the projection period is, in the opinion of the Directors, an appropriate period over which to view the future results of the Groups businesses for this purpose.
changes to the assumptions used in making these forecasts could significantly alter the Directors assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets.
5.3 CURRENT ASSET RESERVES in the course of normal trading activities, judgement is used to establish the net realisable value of various elements of working capital, principally inventory and trade receivables.
Reserves are established for obsolete or slow-moving inventories, bad or doubtful debts and product warranties.
Reserve requirements are based on the facts available at the time and are also determined by using profiles, based on past practice, applied to certain aged inventory and receivables categories.
in estimating the collectability of trade receivables, judgement is required in assessing their likely realisation, including the current creditworthiness of each customer and related ageing of the past due balances.
specific accounts are assessed in situations where a customer may not be able to meet its financial obligations due to deterioration in its financial condition, credit ratings or bankruptcy.
5.4 EmPLOYEE BENEFITS the Groups financial statements include the costs and obligations associated with the provision of pension and other post-retirement benefits to current and former employees.
it is the Directors responsibility to set the assumptions used in determining the key elements of the costs of meeting such future obligations.
these assumptions are set after consultation with the Groups actuaries and include those used to determine regular service costs and the financing elements related to the plans assets and liabilities.
Whilst the Directors believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would affect the Groups profit and financial position.
5.5 LIABILITY RESERVES cookson has extensive international operations and is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, including those covering taxation and environmental matters.
several of the Groups subsidiaries are parties to legal proceedings, certain of which are insured claims arising in the ordinary course of the operations of the company involved, and are aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, the subject of dispute with tax authorities.
Reserves are made for the expected amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting both from legal or other regulatory requirements, or from third-party claims.
As the settlement of many of the obligations for which reserve is made is subject to legal or other regulatory process, the timing and amount of the associated outflows is subject to some uncertainty.
the Directors use their judgement and experience to make reserves in the financial statements for an appropriate amount relating to such matters.
5.6 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS the Groups financial statements present the results of discontinued operations separately from continuing operations.
Discontinued operations include those businesses that have been sold, or are classified as held for sale, and which represented a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations.
the Directors exercise their judgement to determine which of the Groups businesses should have their results presented within discontinued operations.
co. uk 66 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 5.
CRITICAL JUDGEmENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTImATION UNCERTAINTY CONTINUED 5.7 TAxATION a Current tax tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the Group.
in assessing the amount of the benefit to be recognised in the financial statements, the Directors exercise their judgement in considering the effect of negotiations, litigation and any other matters that they consider may impact upon the potential settlement.
Any interest and penalties on tax liabilities are provided for in the tax charge.
the Group operates internationally and is subject to tax in many different jurisdictions.
As a consequence, the Group is routinely subject to tax audit and local enquiries which, by their very nature, can take a considerable period of time to conclude.
provision is made for known issues based upon the Directors interpretation of country-specific tax law and their assessment of the likely outcome.
b Deferred tax the Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of unutilised losses and other timing differences arising in a number of the Groups businesses.
Account has been taken of future forecasts of taxable profit in arriving at the values at which these assets are recognised.
if these forecast profits do not materialise or change, or there are changes in tax rates or to the period over which the losses or timing differences might be recognised, then the value of deferred tax assets will need to be revised in a future period.
the Group has losses and other timing differences for which no value has been recognised for deferred tax purposes in these financial statements.
this situation can arise in loss-making subsidiaries where the future economic benefit of these timing differences is not probable.
it can also arise where the timing differences are of such a nature that their value is dependent on only certain types of profit being earned, such as capital profits.
if trading or other appropriate profits are earned in future in these companies, these losses and other timing differences may yield benefit to the Group in the form of a reduced tax charge.
SEGmENT INFORmATION the segment information contained in this note makes reference to several non-GAAp financial measures, definitions for which can be found in note 3.22.
6.1 BUSINESS SEGmENTS For reporting purposes, the Group is organised into three main business segments: ceramics, electronics and precious metals.
the chief executive Officer of each of these business segments reports to the chief executive of the Group and it is the cookson Board which makes the key operating decisions in respect of these segments.
the information used by the cookson Board to review performance and determine resource allocation between the business segments is presented with the Groups activities segmented between the three business segments, ceramics, electronics and precious metals.
taking into account not only the basis on which the Groups activities are reported to the cookson Board, but also the nature of the products and services of the product lines within each of these segments, the production processes involved in each and the nature of their end-markets, the Directors believe that these three business segments are the appropriate way to analyse the Groups results.
the principal activities of each of these segments are described in the Operating Review on pages 9 to 15. segment revenue represents revenue from external customers inter-segment revenue is not material and segment result is equivalent to trading profit excluding corporate costs directly related to managing the parent company, which are reported separately in the table below.
segment net operating assets exclude goodwill and other intangible assets, net debt, net employee benefits liabilities, net tax liabilities and other net non-operating liabilities.
segment result and segment net operating assets include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those items that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 67 6.
SEGmENT INFORmATION CONTINUED 6.2 INCOmE STATEmENT 2010 Precious Ceramics Electronics metals Unallocated Group m m m m m Segment revenue 1,494.9 720.9 329.7 2,545.5 segment eBitDA 219.2 79.7 16.3 315.2 segment depreciation 41.8 8.7 3.6 54.1 Segment result 177.4 71.0 12.7 261.1 corporate costs 9.0 9.0 Trading profit 177.4 71.0 12.7 9.0 252.1 Amortisation of intangible assets 17.7 17.7 Restructuring and integration charges 9.6 5.5 2.2 17.3 Loss profit relating to non-current assets 0.2 0.8 0.6 Gains relating to employee benefits plans 5.3 5.3 Profit loss from operations 149.9 66.3 10.5 3.7 223.0 Finance costs ordinary activities 67.7 exceptional items 3.0 Finance income 37.3 share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 0.4 net loss on disposal of continuing operations 0.6 Profit before tax 189.4 2009 precious ceramics electronics metals unallocated Group m m m m m segment revenue 1,130.8 529.9 299.9 1,960.6 segment eBitDA 111.6 48.5 12.5 172.6 segment depreciation 40.7 9.3 3.6 53.6 segment result 70.9 39.2 8.9 119.0 corporate costs 7.3 7.3 trading profit 70.9 39.2 8.9 7.3 111.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 17.6 17.6 Restructuring and integration charges 44.3 27.8 2.4 1.1 75.6 Loss relating to non-current assets 0.1 2.6 0.1 2.8 Gains relating to employee benefits plans 9.7 9.7 profit from operations 8.9 8.8 6.4 1.3 25.4 Finance costs ordinary activities 75.6 exceptional items 14.0 Finance income 38.6 share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 1.0 net profit on disposal of continuing operations 3.7 Loss before tax 20.9 cooksongroup.
co. uk 68 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 6.
SEGmENT INFORmATION CONTINUED 6.3 BALANCE SHEET 2010 Precious Ceramics Electronics metals Unallocated Group m m m m m property, plant and equipment 315.2 69.7 25.9 0.5 411.3 trade working capital 344.6 115.9 44.3 1.3 503.5 Other net operating liabilities 68.7 42.3 23.4 8.8 143.2 Net operating assets liabilities 591.1 143.3 46.8 9.6 771.6 Goodwill 607.9 301.0 908.9 Other intangible assets 228.2 228.2 net debt 329.7 329.7 net employee benefits liabilities 113.8 113.8 net tax liabilities 119.6 119.6 Other net non-operating liabilities 68.5 68.5 Total net assets liabilities 1,427.2 444.3 46.8 641.2 1,277.1 2009 precious ceramics electronics metals unallocated Group m m m m m property, plant and equipment 299.1 65.4 26.8 0.6 391.9 trade working capital 254.1 77.0 51.5 2.1 380.5 Other net operating liabilities 61.3 31.0 18.8 9.6 120.7 net operating assets liabilities 491.9 111.4 59.5 11.1 651.7 Goodwill 585.5 288.5 874.0 Other intangible assets 241.6 241.6 net debt 371.4 371.4 net employee benefits liabilities 137.7 137.7 net tax liabilities 127.6 127.6 Other net non-operating liabilities 64.2 64.2 total net assets liabilities 1,319.0 399.9 59.5 712.0 1,066.4 Average net operating assets for RONA calculation As at 31 December 2010 [a] 577.6 150.4 65.9 12.3 781.6 As at 31 December 2009 [b] 545.8 151.0 87.0 15.4 768.4 18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 69 6.
SEGmENT INFORmATION CONTINUED 6.4 PERFORmANCE mEASURES 2010 Precious Ceramics Electronics metals Unallocated Group m m m m m trading profit 177.4 71.0 12.7 9.0 252.1 share of post-tax loss profit of joint ventures 0.9 1.3 0.4 Profit for RONA calculation [c] 176.5 72.3 12.7 9.0 252.5 ROnA % [c] [a] 30.6 48.1 19.3 n a n a Return on sales margin % 11.9 9.8 n a n a 9.9 Return on net sales value % n a n a 9.5 n a n a property, plant and equipment additions m 50.1 11.0 2.2 63.3 Research and development costs m 21.6 16.5 38.1 Research and development costs as % of sales 1.4 2.3 1.5 number of employees year-end 11,624 2,571 1,528 43 15,766 average 11,124 2,699 1,582 43 15,448 2009 precious ceramics electronics metals unallocated Group m m m m m trading profit 70.9 39.2 8.9 7.3 111.7 share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 0.3 0.7 1.0 profit for ROnA calculation [d] 71.2 39.9 8.9 7.3 112.7 ROnA % [d] [b] 13.0 26.4 10.2 n a n a Return on sales margin % 6.3 7.4 n a n a 5.7 Return on net sales value % n a n a 6.7 n a n a property, plant and equipment additions m 28.7 4.8 1.5 35.0 Research and development costs m 20.7 16.3 37.0 Research and development costs as % of sales 1.8 3.1 1.9 number of employees year-end 10,519 2,711 1,588 42 14,860 average 10,555 2,820 1,565 45 14,985 cooksongroup.
co. uk 70 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 6.
the Groups customers are widely dispersed around the world and no single country included within Rest of the World in the table above, for either of the years presented, amounts to more than 5% of the Groups total external revenue.
non-current assets exclude employee benefits net surpluses and deferred tax assets.
6.6 PRODUCTS AND CUSTOmERS information relating to the Groups products and services is given in the Operating Review on pages 9 to 15. the Group is not dependent upon any single customer for its revenue and no single customer, for either of the years presented in the tables above, accounts for more than 5% of the Groups total external revenue.
ExPENSES BY NATURE the following items have been charged in arriving at trading profit: 2010 2009 m m cost of sales 1,834.3 1,442.8 Depreciation note 20 54.2 53.6 minimum lease payments under operating leases note 44 25.6 24.4 employee benefits expense note 11 566.5 480.7 Auditors remuneration note 8 3.7 4.4 Foreign exchange differences 5.3 4.0 Research and development costs 38.1 37.0 8.
AmOUNTS PAYABLE TO KPmG AUDIT PLC AND ITS ASSOCIATES 2010 2009 m m Audit of these financial statements 0.5 0.5 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 2.3 2.2 Other services pursuant to such legislation 0.2 0.2 Other services relating to taxation 0.6 0.4 services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.1 1.1 Total Auditors remuneration 3.7 4.4 18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 71 9.
RESTRUCTURING AND INTEGRATION CHARGES the restructuring and integration charge for the year was 17.3m 2009: 75.6m.
in 2010, the charge wholly comprised 2009: 48.7m the cost of a number of initiatives throughout the Group aimed at reducing the Groups cost base and realigning certain of its manufacturing capacity and sales and marketing organisation with its customers markets.
these latter initiatives included redundancy programmes, the downsizing or closure of facilities, the streamlining of manufacturing processes and the rationalisation of product lines.
in 2009, total restructuring and integration charges also included 4.9m of costs associated with the integration of Foseco plc into the Groups ceramics division and 22.0m in respect of onerous lease costs.
Of the total charge in the year, 0.9m 2009: nil related to asset write-downs.
the net tax credit attributable to these restructuring and integration charges was 3.6m 2009: 3.7m.
cash costs of 23.8m 2009: 49.3m were incurred in the year in respect of the restructuring and integration initiatives commenced both in 2010 and in prior years, leaving provisions made but unspent of 38.4m note 41 as at 31 December 2010 2009: 44.5m, of which 25.1m relate to future lease costs in respect of leases expiring between 3 and 18 years.
PROFIT LOSS RELATING TO NON-CURRENT ASSETS the net profit of 0.6m in 2010 2009: loss of 2.8m comprised a net profit of 2.0m 2009: nil arising on the sale of investments and surplus property, and asset write-downs of 1.4m principally relating to surplus plant and machinery 2009: 2.8m principally relating to surplus freehold property.
the net taxation charge attributable to the sale of non-current assets was 0.2m 2009: 1.3m credit.
EmPLOYEES 11.1 EmPLOYEE BENEFITS ExPENSE 2010 2009 m m Wages and salaries 482.2 411.8 social security costs 55.2 48.9 share-based payments note 39 6.9 1.1 pension costs defined contribution pension plans note 38 15.7 12.7 defined benefit pension plans note 38 3.8 10.1 Other post-retirement benefits note 38 1.0 8.0 Total employee benefits expense 564.8 476.6 Of the total employee benefits expense of 564.8m 2009: 476.6m, 566.5m 2009: 480.7m was charged in arriving at trading profit, nil 2009: 0.8m was charged within restructuring and integration charges, 5.3m 2009: 9.7m was credited within gains relating to employee benefits plans, 36.3m 2009: 34.2m was charged within ordinary finance costs, and 32.7m 2009: 29.4m was credited within finance income.
11.2 REmUNERATION OF KEY mANAGEmENT PERSONNEL the remuneration of the executive Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in iAs 24, Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 44.
2010 2009 m m short-term employee benefits 3.0 1.2 post-employment benefits 0.4 0.2 share-based payments 3.8 0.3 Total remuneration of key management personnel 7.2 1.7 cooksongroup.
co. uk 72 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 11.
EmPLOYEES CONTINUED 11.3 AVERAGE NUmBER OF EmPLOYEES 2010 2009 No.
FINANCE COSTS AND FINANCE INCOmE 12.1 TOTAL NET FINANCE COSTS 2010 2009 m m Finance costs ordinary activities 67.7 75.6 exceptional items 3.0 14.0 Finance income 37.3 38.6 Total net finance costs 33.4 51.0 12.2 ORDINARY FINANCE COSTS AND FINANCE INCOmE 2010 2009 m m Interest payable on borrowings Loans, overdrafts and factoring arrangements 26.5 34.6 Obligations under finance leases 0.2 0.2 Amortisation of capitalised borrowing costs 1.9 4.4 28.6 39.2 Other interest payable interest on retirement benefits obligations 36.3 34.2 unwinding of discounted provisions 2.8 2.2 Total ordinary finance costs 67.7 75.6 interest receivable 4.0 8.6 expected return on retirement benefits assets 32.7 29.4 unwinding of discounted receivables 0.6 0.6 Total finance income 37.3 38.6 12.3 ExCEPTIONAL FINANCE COSTS As a consequence of the issuance of $250m of us private placement Loan notes in December 2010, the Group was required to repay certain of its borrowings under its committed bank facilities.
the exceptional finance costs of 3.0m reported in 2010 arose in relation to this early repayment: 2.4m of these costs related to the close-out of interest rate swaps that had been used to hedge the interest payable in relation to the borrowings: and 0.6m related to the write-off of costs that had been capitalised in relation to the borrowings.
the exceptional finance costs of 14.0m reported in 2009 arose in relation to the early repayment of certain of the Groups borrowings and the conversion into sterling of the remainder of the Groups foreign currency denominated borrowings: 12.8m of these costs related to the close-out of interest rate swaps that had been used to hedge the interest payable in relation to the borrowings: 0.5m related to the write-off of costs that had been capitalised in relation to the borrowings: and 0.7m related to early repayment costs.
the tax associated with these exceptional finance costs was nil 2009: nil.
NET LOSS PROFIT ON DISPOSAL OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS the net loss on disposal of continuing operations of 0.6m 2009: 3.7m profit related to a number of small disposals from the Groups ceramics and electronics divisions, which generated 6.2m 2009: 6.2m of net proceeds.
the tax charge associated with these disposals was nil 2009: 0.9m.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 73 14.
INCOmE TAx 14.1 INCOmE TAx COSTS 2010 2009 m m Current tax uK corporation tax 9.9 Double tax relief 8.2 Overseas taxation 54.5 30.1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.5 5.1 Total current tax 51.0 26.7 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary taxable differences 8.7 4.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5.0 1.5 Total deferred tax note 25 13.7 6.3 Total income tax costs 37.3 20.4 Total income tax costs attributable to: Ordinary activities 46.7 26.3 exceptional items 9.4 5.9 Total income tax costs 37.3 20.4 the Groups total income tax costs of 37.3m 2009: 20.4m include a credit of 9.4m 2009: 5.9m relating to exceptional items comprising: a credit of 3.6m 2009: 3.7m in relation to restructuring and integration charges: a credit of 6.4m 2009: 5.1m relating to the amortisation of intangible assets: a charge of 0.4m 2009: 3.3m relating to deferred tax on goodwill: a charge of 0.2m 2009: credit of 1.3m relating to noncurrent assets: and a charge of nil 2009: 0.9m relating to the net loss profit on disposal of continuing operations.
the Group operates in a number of countries that have differing tax rates, laws and practices.
changes in any of these areas could, adversely or positively, impact the Groups tax charge in the future.
continuing losses, or insufficiency of taxable profit to absorb all expenses, in any subsidiary could have the effect of increasing tax charges in the future, relative to 2010, as effective tax relief may not be available for those losses or expenses.
Other significant factors affecting the tax charge are described in notes 3.11 and 5.7. tax charged in the Group statement of comprehensive income in the year amounted to 0.7m 2009: 21.8m credit, all of which related to net actuarial gains and losses on employee benefits plans.
14.2 RECONCILIATION OF INCOmE TAx COSTS TO PROFIT LOSS BEFORE TAx 2010 2009 m m Profit loss before tax 189.4 20.9 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 28.0% 2009: 28.0% 53.0 5.9 Overseas tax rate differences 0.9 5.7 Withholding taxes 3.4 2.9 Amortisation of intangibles 1.1 3.1 expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.6 0.6 Deferred tax assets not recognised 8.3 33.5 Recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses 4.1 1.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 8.5 6.6 Total income tax costs 37.3 20.4 cooksongroup.
co. uk 74 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 15.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS the net post-tax loss attributable to discontinued operations of 1.2m 2009: 3.4m related to additional costs in respect of prior years disposals.
the tax charge associated with discontinued operations was nil 2009: nil.
EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS 16.1 PER SHARE AmOUNTS Continuing Discontinued Total continuing Discontinued total operations operations 2010 operations operations 2009 pence pence pence pence pence pence earnings loss per share basic 53.0 0.4 52.6 17.8 1.4 19.2 diluted 52.2 0.5 51.7 17.8 1.4 19.2 headline 61.5 61.5 18.0 18.0 diluted headline 60.4 60.4 18.0 18.0 16.2 EARNINGS FOR EPS Basic and diluted eps are based upon profit loss attributable to owners of the parent, as reported in the Group income statement.
Headline and diluted headline eps are based upon headline profit attributable to owners of the parent.
the table below reconciles the profit loss attributable to owners of the parent as reported in the Group income statement to headline profit attributable to owners of the parent.
Continuing Discontinued Total continuing Discontinued total operations operations 2010 operations operations 2009 m m m m m m Profit loss attributable to owners of the parent 146.5 1.2 145.3 45.1 3.4 48.5 Adjustments for exceptional items: Amortisation of intangible assets 17.7 17.7 17.6 17.6 Restructuring and integration charges 17.3 17.3 75.6 75.6 profit loss relating to non-current assets 0.6 0.6 2.8 2.8 Gains relating to employee benefits plans 5.3 5.3 9.7 9.7 exceptional finance costs 3.0 3.0 14.0 14.0 net loss profit on disposal of continuing operations 0.6 0.6 3.7 3.7 Discontinued operations 1.2 1.2 3.4 3.4 tax relating to exceptional items 9.4 9.4 5.9 5.9 Headline profit attributable to owners of the parent 169.8 169.8 45.6 45.6 16.3 wEIGHTED AVERAGE NUmBER OF SHARES 2010 2009 m m For calculating basic and headline EPS 276.2 252.8 Adjustment for dilutive potential ordinary shares 4.7 For calculating diluted basic and diluted headline EPS 280.9 252.8 For the purposes of calculating diluted basic and diluted headline eps, the weighted average number of ordinary shares is adjusted to include the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares relating to the companys share-based payment plans.
potential ordinary shares are only treated as dilutive when their conversion to ordinary shares would decrease earnings per share, or increase loss per share, from continuing operations.
in addition to the ordinary shares shown as being dilutive in the table above, the company had 0.5m 2009: 0.8m of outstanding options and share awards in relation to its share-based payment plans that could dilute eps in the future, but which are not included in the calculation of diluted and diluted headline eps above because they were antidilutive in the years presented.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 75 17.
CASH GENERATED FROm OPERATIONS 2010 2009 m m Profit from operations 223.0 25.4 Adjustments for: Amortisation of intangible assets 17.7 17.6 Restructuring and integration charges 17.3 75.6 profit loss relating to non-current assets 0.6 2.8 Gains relating to employee benefits plans 5.3 9.7 Depreciation 54.2 53.6 EBITDA 306.3 165.3 increase decrease in inventories 56.1 91.9 increase decrease in trade receivables 78.1 41.3 increase in trade payables 34.0 12.4 Decrease in other working capital balances 7.8 6.9 net increase decrease in trade and other working capital 92.4 152.5 net operating outflow related to assets and liabilities classified as held for sale 1.6 0.8 Outflow related to restructuring and integration charges 23.8 49.3 Additional funding contributions into Group pension plans 11.6 8.3 Cash generated from operations 176.9 259.4 18.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2010 2009 m m short-term deposits 39.6 44.8 cash at bank and in hand 147.1 115.4 Cash and short-term deposits 186.7 160.2 Bank overdrafts 5.3 2.5 Cash and cash equivalents in the Group statement of cash flows 181.4 157.7 19.
RECONCILIATION OF mOVEmENT IN NET DEBT Balance Balance as at Foreign as at 1 January exchange Non-cash 31 December 2010 adjustments movements Cash flow 2010 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents short-term deposits 44.8 0.2 5.4 39.6 cash at bank and in hand 115.4 7.2 24.5 147.1 Bank overdrafts 2.5 0.1 2.9 5.3 16.2 Borrowings, excluding bank overdrafts current 89.5 6.6 115.6 89.6 122.1 non-current 444.3 2.5 115.6 60.9 392.1 capitalised borrowing costs 4.7 1.6 3.1 28.7 Net debt 371.4 1.6 1.6 44.9 329.7 net debt is a measure that shows the Groups net indebtedness to banks and other external financial institutions and comprises the total of cash and short-term deposits and current and non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
co. uk 76 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 20.
impairment charges are recognised within the profit loss relating to non-current assets.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS intangible assets comprise goodwill and other intangible assets that have been acquired through business combinations.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses, with impairment testing carried out annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill has been allocated may be impaired.
Other intangible assets are initially measured at cost, which is equal to the acquisition date fair value, and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated amortisation charges and accumulated impairment losses.
Other intangible assets are subject to impairment testing when there is an indication that an impairment loss may have been incurred.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 77 21.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED 21.1 mOVEmENT IN NET BOOK VALUE 2010 2009 Other Other intangible intangible Goodwill assets Total Goodwill assets total m m m m m m Cost As at 1 January 909.3 272.5 1,181.8 962.8 278.0 1,240.8 exchange adjustments 37.1 4.9 42.0 54.3 5.5 59.8 Business acquisitions note 42 3.0 3.0 Business disposals note 43 1.3 1.3 2.2 2.2 As at 31 December 945.1 277.4 1,222.5 909.3 272.5 1,181.8 Accumulated amortisation and impairment As at 1 January 35.3 30.9 66.2 39.6 13.6 53.2 exchange adjustments 0.9 0.6 1.5 3.6 0.3 3.9 Amortisation charge for the year note 21.3 17.7 17.7 17.6 17.6 Business disposals note 43 0.7 0.7 As at 31 December 36.2 49.2 85.4 35.3 30.9 66.2 Net book value as at 31 December 908.9 228.2 1,137.1 874.0 241.6 1,115.6 21.2 ANALYSIS OF GOODwILL BY CASH-GENERATING UNIT CGU Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Groups cGus expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
For the purposes of impairment testing, the Directors consider that the Group has four cGus: the ceramics division, the chemistry and Assembly materials product lines of the electronics division and the precious metals division.
these cGus represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored.
For the precious metals division cGu, goodwill recognised in the balance sheet is nil 2009: nil.
2010 2009 m m ceramics 607.9 585.5 chemistry 233.3 227.3 Assembly materials 67.7 61.2 Total goodwill 908.9 874.0 21.3 ANALYSIS OF OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Other intangible assets arose in 2008 on the acquisition of Foseco plc and are being amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
the assets acquired and their remaining useful lives are shown below.
Net book value as at Remaining 31 December useful life 2010 years m Foseco customer relationships 17.3 107.6 trade name 17.3 62.4 intellectual property rights 7.3 58.2 Total 228.2 cooksongroup.
co. uk 78 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 22.
ImPAIRmENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 22.1 ImPAIRmENT POLICY At each balance sheet date, the Directors review the carrying value of the Groups tangible and other intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
if such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Directors estimate the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit cGu to which the asset belongs.
the Directors also carry out annual impairment testing of the carrying value of its cGus, to assess the need for any impairment of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible and tangible assets associated with these cGus.
For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount of an asset or cGu is the higher of i its fair value less costs to sell and ii its value in use.
if the recoverable amount of a cGu is less than the carrying amount of that cGu, the resulting impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the cGu and then to the other assets of the cGu pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the cGu.
the value in use calculations of the Groups cGus are based on detailed business plans covering a three year period from the balance sheet date, higher level assumptions covering a further two year period and perpetuity calculations beyond this five year projection period.
the cash flows in the calculations are discounted to their current value using pre-tax discount rates.
22.2 KEY ASSUmPTIONS the key assumptions used in determining value in use are return on sales, growth rates and discount rates.
Return on sales assumptions are based on historical financial information, adjusted to factor in the anticipated impact of restructuring and rationalisation plans already announced at the balance sheet date.
Growth rates are determined with reference to: current market conditions: external forecasts and historical trends for the Groups key end-markets of steel production, foundry castings and electronics: and expected growth in output within the industries in which each major Group business unit operates.
A perpetuity growth rate of 3% 2009: 3% has been applied based on the long-term growth rates experienced in the Groups endmarkets.
the Groups projections are based on historical trends and external forecasts.
Discount rates are calculated for each cGu, reflecting market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to each cGu.
the pretax discount rate used for the ceramics cGu was 14.5% 2009: 12.9%, for the chemistry cGu 14.1% 2009: 13.0% and for the Assembly materials cGu 12.5% 2009: 11.4%.
22.3 GOODwILL ImPAIRmENT in assessing goodwill for potential impairment as at 31 December 2010, the Directors made use of detailed calculations of the recoverable amount of the Groups cGus as at 31 December 2010. those calculations resulted in recoverable amounts significantly higher than the carrying values of each of the Groups cGus.
INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES the principal joint venture of the Group, in which it has a 50% interest, is electroplating engineers of Japan Ltd. the Groups interests in its joint ventures are recognised using the equity method.
the aggregate amounts relating to these interests were as follows: 2010 2009 m m share of current assets 23.5 19.0 share of non-current assets 22.7 18.6 share of current liabilities 16.1 13.3 share of non-current liabilities 1.2 0.8 As at 31 December 28.9 23.5 share of revenue 109.3 78.3 share of post-tax profit 0.4 1.0 18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 79 24.
INVESTmENTS 2010 2009 m m Available-for-sale investments 5.7 9.8 Available-for-sale investments include 3.9m 2009: 3.9m of assets held in Rabbi trusts and 0.2m 2009: 4.1m of listed equity securities and are accounted for in accordance with the policies in note 3.20 c. the Rabbi trust assets are held to fund certain non-qualified us pension plan obligations and are not included within pension plan assets as they are available to satisfy creditors in the event of the winding-up of the Group company in which they are held.
DEFERRED TAx Accelerated Other capital Operating Pension Intangible timing allowances losses costs assets differences Total m m m m m m As at 1 January 2009 6.2 3.5 16.2 98.1 2.7 119.7 exchange adjustments 0.4 0.2 0.5 3.4 0.8 4.3 credit to Group statement of comprehensive income note 14 21.8 21.8 credit charge to Group income statement note 14 2.2 0.3 0.1 2.3 1.6 6.3 As at 1 January 2010 3.6 4.0 5.0 92.4 0.3 87.3 exchange adjustments 2.2 0.7 1.5 charge to Group statement of comprehensive income note 14 0.7 0.7 charge credit to Group income statement note 14 0.2 0.6 1.0 5.9 6.4 13.7 As at 31 December 2010 3.8 4.6 5.3 88.7 6.8 75.8 2010 2009 m m Recognised in the Group balance sheet as: non-current deferred tax assets 19.9 12.0 non-current deferred tax liabilities 95.7 99.3 Net total deferred tax liabilities 75.8 87.3 tax loss carry-forwards and other temporary differences of 4.9m 2009: 1.9m were recognised by subsidiaries reporting a loss in 2009 or 2010.
On the basis of approved business plans of these subsidiaries and in view of the significant improvement in market conditions in 2010, the Directors consider it probable that the tax loss carry-forwards and temporary differences can be offset against future taxable profits.
the total deferred tax asset not recognised as at 31 December 2010 was 483.0m 2009: 475.6m.
this consisted of 45.4m 2009: 51.2m relating to capital losses that are available to offset future uK capital gains and may be carried forward without time limit, 232.6m 2009: 224.0m relating to operating losses, 92.4m 2009: 85.8m relating to unrelieved interest, 99.5m 2009: 101.5m relating to other categories and 13.1m 2009: 13.1m relating to uK Act tax credits, which may be carried forward indefinitely.
in accordance with the accounting policy in note 3.11, these items have not been recognised as deferred tax assets on the basis that their future economic benefit is not probable.
in total, there was an increase of 7.4m 2009: 20.7m in net unrecognised deferred tax assets during the year.
As at 31 December 2010, the Group had total operating losses carried forward with a tax value of 237.2m 2009: 228.0m.
this total includes 97.8m 2009: 84.5m for losses which are available to offset future taxable us income, of which approximately 7.6m 2009: 7.3m will expire in 2020 and the remainder will expire between 2022 and 2029.
A further 108.4m 2009: 108.2m of losses are available to offset future uK taxable income and may be carried forward without time limit.
the remaining losses with a value of 31.0m 2009: 35.3m include 15.9m 2009: 20.9m which may be carried forward indefinitely and 9.8m 2009: 9.4m which will expire within the next 5 years if not used.
the balance has a maximum life of between 5 and 20 years.
the amounts arise in a number of countries and are not individually significant, reflecting the spread of the Groups operations.
As at 31 December 2010, the Group had unrelieved interest with a tax value of 92.4m 2009: 85.8m, which may be carried forward indefinitely, and us tax credits carried forward with a tax value of 10.1m 2009: 10.8m, comprising 2.7m 2009: 2.7m of research and experimentation credits, which expire between 2018 and 2030, and 7.4m 2009: 8.1m of foreign tax credits expiring between 2014 and 2018. cooksongroup.
co. uk 80 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 25.
DEFERRED TAx CONTINUED Due to changes in uK tax law enacted in 2009 exempting dividends received from uK tax, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is nil 2009: nil.
the emergency Budget on 22 June 2010 announced that the uK corporation tax rate will reduce from 28% to 24% over a period of four years from 2011. the first reduction in the rate from 28% to 27% was substantively enacted on 20 July 2010 and is effective from 1 April 2011.
As this rate change was substantively enacted prior to the year end, the Groups closing uK deferred tax liability has been provided using a tax rate of 27%.
the impact of using this lower tax rate was to increase the exceptional tax credit relating to the amortisation of intangible assets from 5.2m to 6.4m note 14.1.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 26.1 ANALYSIS OF TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2010 2009 Gross Impairment Net Gross impairment net m m m m m m trade receivables current 346.4 3.5 342.9 261.5 2.2 259.3 1 to 30 days past due 63.7 0.9 62.8 54.5 1.1 53.4 31 to 60 days past due 21.7 0.6 21.1 20.1 0.6 19.5 61 to 90 days past due 9.2 1.0 8.2 6.7 0.5 6.2 over 90 days past due 38.5 25.3 13.2 39.8 28.7 11.1 trade receivables 479.5 31.3 448.2 382.6 33.1 349.5 Other receivables 38.8 29.3 prepayments and accrued income 35.9 26.3 Total trade and other receivables 522.9 405.1 All of the Groups operating companies have policies and procedures in place to assess the creditworthiness of the customers with whom they do business.
Where objective evidence exists that a trade receivable balance may be impaired, provision is made for the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of the estimated cash that will be recovered.
impairment provisions are assessed on an individual customer basis for all significant outstanding balances and collectively for all remaining balances based upon historical loss experience.
Historical experience has shown that the Groups trade receivable provisions are maintained at levels that are sufficient to absorb actual bad debt write-offs, without being excessive.
26.2 mOVEmENTS ON ImPAIRmENT PROVISIONS 2010 2009 m m As at 1 January 33.1 34.0 exchange adjustments 0.7 1.9 charge for the year 6.5 14.6 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable 6.0 8.8 unused amounts reversed 3.0 4.8 As at 31 December 31.3 33.1 impairment charges, write-offs and the reversal of unused amounts shown in the table above are charged or credited as appropriate within administration, selling and distribution costs in the Group income statement.
in determining the level of impairment provisions required, the Groups operating companies initially review all significant trade receivable balances on an individual basis for evidence of impairment.
evidence of impairment may include such factors as the customer being in breach of contract, or entering bankruptcy or financial reorganisation proceedings.
Of the total provision for impairment of trade receivables at 31 December 2010 of 31.3m 2009: 33.1m shown in the table above, 25.9m 2009: 29.4m related to balances that were impaired on an individual basis.
the ageing analysis of these individually impaired balances is shown in the table below.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 81 26.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED 26.2 mOVEmENTS ON ImPAIRmENT PROVISIONS CONTINUED 2010 2009 m m Ageing analysis of individually impaired trade receivable balances current 2.0 1.5 1 to 30 days past due 0.4 0.8 31 to 60 days past due 0.5 0.4 61 to 90 days past due 0.9 0.4 Over 90 days past due 22.1 26.3 Total individually impaired trade receivable balances 25.9 29.4 Due to the large number of customers that the Group transacts its business with, none of which represent a significant proportion of the total outstanding trade receivables balance, the Group is not exposed to any significant concentration of credit risk.
there is no significant difference between the fair value of the Groups trade and other receivable balances and the amount at which they are reported in the Group balance sheet.
INVENTORIES 2010 2009 m m Raw materials 104.7 80.1 Work-in-progress 32.7 26.7 Finished goods 150.1 115.2 Total inventories 287.5 222.0 the cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales in the income statement during the year was 1,263.7m 2009: 972.7m.
As at 31 December 2010, in addition to the inventory recorded in the balance sheet, the Group held 354.8m 2009: 304.5m of precious metals either on consignment terms or on behalf of customers for processing.
cookson has entered into various precious metal consignment arrangements with precious metals consigning entities the consignors.
the metal which the Group fabricates for its customers may be purchased by the Group from a consignor and sold concurrently to the customer, or may be consigned and sold directly from a consignor to the Groups customers, with the Group charging customers only for the fabrication process.
As the consignors retain title and associated risks and rewards of ownership under these arrangements, the value of the physical metal so held is not recognised in the Group balance sheet.
consequently, the obligations in respect of the consigned metal are not recognised as a liability in the Group balance sheet.
the utilisation of consigned precious metals is established practice in the precious metals industry.
cookson provides a guarantee in respect of each consignment arrangement.
Whilst the terms of each consignment arrangement differ in their specific terms, they share similar characteristics.
metals are held on consignment by the relevant cookson company the consignee and the consignor retains title to the metal and has a right of physical return of the metal without penalty unless the consignee purchases such metal at a market price for such metals plus a premium.
the consignee pays a consignment fee on the value of the metals consigned to it which have not been returned or purchased.
consignment fees for 2010 amounted to 8.9m 2009: 8.6m.
consigned metals may be co-mingled with other metals.
consignors are party to either committed or uncommitted arrangements.
under committed arrangements the consignors provide a fixed term commitment to supply metal to the Groups fabrication operations.
under uncommitted arrangements the consignor is under no obligation to supply metal to the Groups fabrication operations and has the right, with limited or, in some cases, no notice, to demand physical return of its consigned metal.
co. uk 82 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 28.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUmENTS 28.1 ANALYSIS OF DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUmENTS 2010 2009 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts designated as net investment hedges 26.1 17.3 interest rate swaps desig nated as cash flow hedges 2.0 Forward foreign exchange and commodity contracts designated as fair value hedges 2.4 2.6 0.2 2.3 Forward foreign exchange contracts not designated for hedge accounting purposes 2.7 Total derivative financial instruments 2.4 33.4 0.2 19.6 Derivative financial instruments are reported at their fair value at the balance sheet date and are accounted for in accordance with the accounting policies in note 4.2. in accordance with Group policy, no derivatives are held for speculative purposes.
Of the 33.4m 2009: 19.6m of derivative liabilities reported in the table above, 19.3m 2009: 11.9m will mature within a year of the balance sheet date and 14.1m 2009: 7.7m will mature within two years.
28.2 NET INVESTmENT HEDGES the Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to provide a hedge against the foreign exchange risk associated with investments in its foreign operations.
Of the change in the fair value of these contracts in the year, 19.1m which was associated with the change in spot prices was determined to be an effective hedge and was recognised in other comprehensive income and presented within translation reserves note 32 and 2.2m which was associated with the change in forward prices was credited to the income statement within finance income.
in addition to these derivative net investment hedges, the Group also designated certain non-derivative financial instruments including foreign currency term loans under its syndicated bank facility: borrowings under its us private placement Loan notes uspp : and other short-term net foreign currency liabilities as net investment hedges.
there was no ineffectiveness associated with the change in the fair value of these instruments and the effective change in fair value of 7.0m was recognised in other comprehensive income and presented within translation reserves note 32. the fair value of these non-derivative net investment hedging instruments as at 31 December 2010 amounted to 179.6m.
28.3 CASH FLOw HEDGES During the year the Group entered into interest rate swap contracts swaps intended to provide a hedge against the cash flow risk associated with interest payable on its floating rate debt instruments.
Of the change in the fair value of these swaps during the year, 4.4m was determined to be an effective hedge and was recognised in other comprehensive income and presented within hedging reserves and 0.1m was determined to be an ineffective hedge and was recognised in the income statement within ordinary finance costs.
under the terms of these swaps the Group will make semi-annual payments of 0.5m between April 2011 and October 2012, when the contracts are due to mature.
28.4 FAIR VALUE HEDGES the Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts and forward commodity contracts in its operations to provide a hedge against the risk of changes in the fair value of recognised assets and liabilities that might otherwise arise as a result of the fluctuation in exchange rates and commodity prices.
in relation to the fair value hedge assets, gains of 2.3m were recognised during the year within trading profit, matched by losses of 2.3m on the underlying hedged items: and in relation to the fair value hedge liabilities, losses of 2.2m were recognised during the year within trading profit, matched by gains of 2.2m on the underlying hedged items.
28.5 DERIVATIVES NOT DESIGNATED FOR HEDGE ACCOUNTING PURPOSES throughout the year the Group used forward foreign exchange contracts to provide an economic hedge against the change in fair value of its uspp arising from the fluctuation in exchange rates.
A 9.8m gain 2009: 24.7m loss arising on the change in the fair value of these contracts in the year was recognised within trading profit, offsetting the 9.8m loss in the year 2009: 24.7m gain arising on the retranslation of the uspp.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 83 29.
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE As at 31 December 2009, assets of 3.2m and liabilities of 1.4m in respect of a business in the process of being sold were recorded as held for sale.
ISSUED SHARE CAPITAL Number of shares m m As at 1 January 2009 212.6 21.3 shares issued in the year 2,551.3 255.1 share consolidation 2,487.5 As at 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2010 276.4 276.4 On 4 march 2009, under the terms of a fully underwritten rights issue, shareholders of the company on the register at the close of business on 13 February 2009 were offered 2,551,293,144 new ordinary shares of 10p each on the basis of twelve new ordinary shares for every existing ordinary share held.
total proceeds on issue amounted to 240.7m, net of expenses of 14.4m.
At the companys Annual General meeting held on 14 may 2009, shareholders approved a share consolidation, which took effect following the close of business on that same date, whereby shareholders received one new ordinary share of 100p each for every ten existing ordinary shares of 10p each.
Further information relating to the companys share capital is given in the Directors Report on page 32.
SHARE PREmIUm ACCOUNT m As at 1 January 2009 8.1 expenses associated with shares issued in the year 8.1 As at 1 January 2010 Arising on exercise of share options 0.1 As at 31 December 2010 0.1 During the year, the company issued 39,408 ordinary shares under its executive and employee share plans for a consideration of 0.1m.
co. uk 84 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 32.
OTHER RESERVES Investment Hedging revaluation Translation reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m As at 1 January 2009 12.0 2.0 202.1 192.1 exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations 93.3 93.3 exchange translation differences arising on net investment hedges 16.8 16.8 change in fair value of cash flow hedges 1.0 1.0 change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to profit for the year 12.8 12.8 change in fair value of available-for-sale investments 0.5 0.5 As at 1 January 2010 0.2 2.5 125.6 127.9 exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations 82.0 82.0 exchange translation differences arising on net investment hedges 26.1 26.1 change in fair value of cash flow hedges 4.2 4.2 change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to profit for the year 2.4 2.4 change in fair value of available-for-sale investments 1.4 1.4 change in fair value of available-for-sale investments transferred to profit for the year 1.3 1.3 As at 31 December 2010 2.0 0.2 181.5 179.3 32.1 HEDGING RESERVE Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecast transaction note 28.3, the effective part of the gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in hedging reserves in equity.
When the forecast transaction that was being hedged is realised and affects profit or loss, the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is removed from the hedging reserve and recognised in the Group income statement in the same period.
32.2 INVESTmENT REVALUATION RESERVE Available-for-sale investments are carried in the Group balance sheet at fair value.
changes in fair value from one balance sheet date to the next are recorded in the investment revaluation reserve, together with any related tax.
When the investment is derecognised the cumulative amount relating to it in the investment revaluation reserve, together with any related tax, is recognised in the Group income statement.
32.3 TRANSLATION RESERVE the translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences attributable to the owners of the parent that arise from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations and from the translation of financial instruments that hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
in addition to foreign exchange differences attributable to the owners of the parent, the Group statement of comprehensive income includes foreign exchange differences attributable to non-controlling interests note 35.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 85 33.
RETAINED EARNINGS Share Other Total Treasury option retained retained shares reserve earnings earnings m m m m As at 1 January 2009 2.6 6.4 749.3 753.1 Loss for the year 48.5 48.5 net actuarial losses on employee benefits plans 77.3 77.3 Recognition of share-based payments 1.1 1.1 Release of share option reserve on exercised and lapsed options 3.2 3.2 income tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income 21.8 21.8 expenses associated with shares issued in the year 6.3 6.3 As at 1 January 2010 2.6 4.3 642.2 643.9 profit for the year 145.3 145.3 net actuarial gains on employee benefits plans 2.5 2.5 Disposal of treasury shares 0.1 0.1 Recognition of share-based payments 6.8 6.8 Release of share option reserve on exercised and lapsed options 1.5 1.5 income tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income 0.7 0.7 As at 31 December 2010 2.5 9.6 790.7 797.8 the treasury shares shown in the table above are ordinary shares of 100p each of the company and are held by cookson investments Jersey Limited as trustee of the cookson Group esOp note 15 to the company financial statements.
DIVIDENDS no final dividend was paid in respect of 2008 or 2009, nor was an interim dividend paid in respect of 2009 and 2010.
A proposed final dividend for 2010 of 31.8m 2009: nil equivalent to 11.5p 2009: nil per ordinary share is subject to approval by shareholders at the companys Annual General meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
if approved by shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 6 June 2011 to ordinary shareholders on the register at 20 may 2011.
NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS 2010 2009 m m As at 1 January 18.2 17.6 exchange adjustments 2.5 1.2 non-controlling interest in profit for the year 5.6 3.8 Dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders 2.8 2.0 As at 31 December 23.5 18.2 36.
INTEREST-BEARING BORROwINGS 36.1 BORROwING FACILITIES As at 31 December 2010, the Group had committed borrowing facilities of 855.4m 2009: 876.2m, of which 350.0m 2009: 350.0m were undrawn.
these undrawn facilities are due to expire in October 2012. the Groups borrowing requirements are met by us private placement Loan notes uspp and a multi-currency committed syndicated bank facility of 573.2m 2009: 674.9m.
the uspp facility was fully drawn as at 31 December 2010 and amounted to 282.2m $440.0m, of which $190.0m is repayable in may 2012, $110.0m in 2017, and $140.0m in 2020. the syndicated bank facility comprises 223.2m of term loans and a 350.0m revolving credit facility.
the facility is repayable in three instalments: 62.0m in April 2011: 37.5m and 18.8m in October 2011: and 425.3m and 37.6m in October 2012. cooksongroup.
co. uk 86 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 36.
INTEREST-BEARING BORROwINGS CONTINUED 36.2 ANALYSIS OF BORROwINGS BY REPAYmENT TERm Non-current Current Total 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m m m Loans and overdrafts 389.9 442.8 125.8 89.9 515.7 532.7 Obligations under finance leases 2.2 1.7 1.6 1.9 3.8 3.6 capitalised borrowing costs 1.7 2.9 1.4 1.8 3.1 4.7 Total interest-bearing borrowings 390.4 441.6 126.0 90.0 516.4 531.6 capitalised borrowing costs, which have been recognised as a reduction in borrowings in the financial statements, amounted to 3.1m as at 31 December 2010 31 December 2009: 4.7m, of which 0.9m 2009: 0.1m related to the uspp and 2.2m 2009: 4.6m related to the syndicated bank facility.
2010 2009 Fixed rate Floating rate Total Fixed rate Floating rate total m m m m m m Interest-bearing borrowings repayable On demand or within one year 25.0 102.4 127.4 83.6 8.2 91.8 in the second year 195.9 34.7 230.6 109.2 109.2 in the third year 0.8 0.8 117.7 217.4 335.1 in the fourth year 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 After five years 160.3 0.2 160.5 0.1 0.1 capitalised borrowing costs 0.9 2.2 3.1 0.1 4.6 4.7 Total interest-bearing borrowings 380.3 136.1 516.4 201.2 330.4 531.6 in addition to the maturity analysis of the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities shown in the table above, note 28 includes details of the maturity profile of the Groups derivative financial liabilities.
the Group manages the liquidity risk inherent in all these liabilities by maintaining sufficient committed bank facilities to ensure that it is able to meet both its operational cash flow requirements and any maturing financial liabilities.
these committed facilities amounted to 573.2m at 31 December 2010, of which 350m was unutilised.
the level of these facilities is reviewed annually, as part of the Groups three year planning process, to ensure that it continues to provide adequate operational headroom.
Where the Groups long-term cash flow forecasts indicate a need for additional finance, this is normally addressed 12 to 18 months in advance by means of either additional committed bank facilities or raising finance in the capital markets.
36.3 PRESENT VALUE OF mINImUm FINANCE LEASE OBLIGATIONS 2010 2009 m m Due within one year 1.6 1.9 Due between one and five years 2.2 1.7 Total present value of minimum finance lease obligations 3.8 3.6 18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 87 37.
FINANCIAL RISK mANAGEmENT 37.1 CALCULATION OF FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Fair value is defined as the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties.
Wherever possible, fair value is calculated by reference to quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments.
Where no such quoted prices are available, other observable inputs are used and if there are no observable inputs then fair values are calculated by discounting projected cash flows at prevailing rates translated at year-end exchange rates.
37.2 FAIR VALUES RECOGNISED IN THE GROUP BALANCE SHEET the following table shows the assets and liabilities that are recognised in the Group balance sheet at fair value.
2010 2009 m m investments available-for-sale investments 5.7 9.8 Derivative financial assets forward foreign exchange contracts 2.4 0.2 Derivative financial liabilities forward foreign exchange contracts 31.4 19.6 interest rate swap contracts 2.0 Net liabilities recognised at fair value in the Group balance sheet 25.3 9.6 All of the fair values shown in the table above have been calculated using quoted prices from active markets.
Of the total derivative financial liabilities of 33.4m 2009: 19.6m, 19.3m 2009: 11.9m will mature within a year of the balance sheet date and 14.1m 2009: 7.7m will mature within two years.
37.3 FAIR VALUES FOR FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES RECOGNISED AT COST IN THE GROUP BALANCE SHEET 2010 2009 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term borrowings 125.8 125.8 89.9 92.4 Long-term portion of long-term borrowings 389.9 394.7 442.8 456.1 Obligations under finance leases 3.8 3.8 3.6 3.6 capitalised borrowing costs 3.1 4.7 Gross borrowings 516.4 524.3 531.6 552.1 cash and short-term deposits note 18 186.7 186.7 160.2 160.2 Net debt 329.7 337.6 371.4 391.9 the difference between book value and fair value reported in the table above relates to capitalised borrowing costs and to the uspp, the fair value of which has been calculated by discounting future capital and interest obligations using a discount rate equal to us treasuries plus a spread of 240 basis points for cooksons credit rating.
co. uk 88 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 37.
FINANCIAL RISK mANAGEmENT CONTINUED 37.4 CURRENCY AND INTEREST RATE PROFILES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES the currency and interest rate profiles of the Groups borrowings are set out below.
the first table shows the impact of forward foreign exchange contracts on the currency profile of the Groups gross borrowings.
the second table shows the fixed floating profile of the Groups gross borrowings and the impact that interest rate swaps have on this profile.
A 10% strengthening of sterling would result in a decrease of 0.3m 2009: 2.0m in the fair value of this liability.
A 10% weakening of sterling would result in an increase of 0.4m 2009: 2.5m in the fair value of this liability.
Financial Financial liabilities gross borrowings assets Notional cash and Interest fixed rate Floating short-term Fixed rate rate swaps debt rate Total deposits Net debt m m m m m m m sterling 99.0 99.0 75.8 174.8 24.4 150.4 united states dollar 282.2 282.2 2.8 285.0 13.5 271.5 euro 49.0 49.0 42.0 7.0 chinese renminbi 40.7 40.7 singapore dollar 1.5 1.5 1.0 0.5 Japanese yen 1.0 1.0 2.9 1.9 Other 8.2 8.2 62.2 54.0 capitalised borrowing costs 0.9 0.9 2.2 3.1 3.1 As at 31 December 2010 281.3 99.0 380.3 136.1 516.4 186.7 329.7 18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 89 37.
FINANCIAL RISK mANAGEmENT CONTINUED 37.4 CURRENCY AND INTEREST RATE PROFILES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED Financial Financial liabilities gross borrowings assets notional cash and interest fixed rate Floating short-term Fixed rate rate swaps debt rate total deposits net debt m m m m m m m sterling 324.9 324.9 18.6 306.3 united states dollar 201.3 201.3 2.0 203.3 12.2 191.1 euro 1.7 1.7 23.3 21.6 chinese renminbi 44.3 44.3 singapore dollar 1.0 1.0 Japanese yen 0.8 0.8 2.7 1.9 Other 5.6 5.6 58.1 52.5 capitalised borrowing costs 0.1 0.1 4.6 4.7 4.7 As at 31 December 2009 201.2 201.2 330.4 531.6 160.2 371.4 the financial assets shown in the tables above attract floating rate interest at the inter-bank offered rate of the appropriate currency, less a margin.
the floating rate financial liabilities bear interest at the inter-bank offered rate of the appropriate currency, plus a margin.
the fixed rate financial liabilities of 281.3m 2009: 201.2m have a weighted average interest rate of 5.1% 2009: 8.0% and a weighted average period for which the rate is fixed of 4.5 years 2009: 1.5 years.
37.5 mARKET RISK CURRENCY RELATED the Group is exposed to currency risk in relation to the value of its financial assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than sterling note 37.4, arising from fluctuations in exchange rates.
the table below shows the impact on the value of the Groups reported net financial liabilities of exchange rates either strengthening or weakening by 10% against sterling and the impact that this would have on the reported profit or loss and equity.
the Groups reported profit is not impacted by the effect of the changes in exchange rates on the value of its net financial liabilities, but equity would be 16.6m higher if sterling strengthened by 10% and 20.3m lower if sterling weakened by 10%.
Effect of sterling strengthening by 10% Effect of sterling weakening by 10% 2010 Rates Profit Rates Profit As reported 10% loss Equity -10% loss Equity Net financial liabilities m m m m m m m Denominated in sterling 146.8 146.8 146.8 not denominated in sterling 182.9 166.3 16.6 203.2 20.3 Total net debt 329.7 313.1 16.6 350.0 20.3 effect of sterling strengthening by 10% effect of sterling weakening by 10% 2009 Rates profit Rates profit As reported 10% loss equity -10% loss equity net financial liabilities m m m m m m m Denominated in sterling 301.6 301.6 301.6 not denominated in sterling 69.8 63.5 6.3 77.6 7.8 total net debt 371.4 365.1 6.3 379.2 7.8 cooksongroup.
co. uk 90 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 37.
FINANCIAL RISK mANAGEmENT CONTINUED 37.6 mARKET RISK INTEREST RATE RELATED a Cash flow risk changes in market interest rates expose the Group to the risk of fluctuation in its future cash flows in relation to its financial assets and liabilities that attract interest at floating rates note 37.4.
Based upon the interest rate profile of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2010 and the net floating rate cash position of 50.6m 2009: net floating rate debt position of 170.2m at that date, a 1% increase in market interest rates would result in a decrease in both the Groups annual net finance costs charged to the Group income statement and the Groups net interest paid in the Group statement of cash flows of 0.5m 2009: 1.7m increase.
correspondingly, a 1% decrease in interest rates would result in an increase in both the Groups annual net finance costs charged to the Group income statement and the Groups net interest paid in the Group statement of cash flows of 0.5m 2009: 1.7m decrease.
in January 2010, the company entered into interest rate swaps aimed at fixing the interest rates on around two-thirds of the Groups gross borrowings for a period of just over two years.
b Fair value risk changes in market interest rates expose the Group to the risk of fluctuation in the fair value of its financial assets and liabilities that attract interest at fixed rates note 37.4.
Based upon the interest rate profile of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2010, a 1% increase in market interest rates would result in a decrease of 11.5m 2009: 3.2m in the fair value of the Groups net debt and a 1% decrease in market interest rates would result in an increase of 12.3m 2009: 3.3m in the fair value of the Groups net debt.
37.7 CURRENCY ExPOSURE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES the tables below show the net unhedged monetary assets and liabilities of Group companies that are not denominated in their functional currency and which therefore give rise to exchange gains and losses in the Group income statement.
Net unhedged monetary assets liabilities Sterling US dollar Euro Renminbi Other Total m m m m m m Functional currency sterling 0.3 2.1 7.2 0.3 9.9 united states dollar 0.7 1.8 1.7 4.2 euro 1.7 2.6 0.3 1.2 chinese renminbi 0.1 4.1 5.1 4.4 5.5 Other 0.9 1.2 6.7 11.0 0.9 17.1 As at 31 December 2010 2.0 8.2 5.5 18.2 3.0 26.9 net unhedged monetary assets liabilities sterling us dollar euro Renminbi Other total m m m m m m Functional currency sterling 0.3 7.4 1.0 8.1 united states dollar 0.3 2.7 3.0 euro 1.4 1.9 0.3 3.0 chinese renminbi 0.4 4.7 2.8 1.5 Other 1.7 2.1 2.8 4.7 7.9 As at 31 December 2009 3.5 4.6 7.7 8.7 17.5 18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 91 38.
EmPLOYEE BENEFITS 38.1 GROUP POST-RETIREmENT PLANS the Group operates a number of pension plans around the world, both of the defined benefit and defined contribution type, and accounts for them in accordance with iAs 19. a Defined benefit pension plans the Groups principal defined benefit pension plans are in the uK and the us.
the assets of these plans are held separately from the Group in trusteeadministered funds.
the trustees are required to act in the best interests of the plans beneficiaries.
the Group also has defined benefit pension plans in other territories but, with the exception of those in Germany, these are not individually material in relation to the Group as a whole.
the Groups main defined benefit pension plan in the uK the uK plan is closed to new members and, having completed the required period of consultation with its employees, the closure of the uK plan and the uK defined contribution plan to future benefit accrual took effect from 31 July 2010 and a new Group personal pension plan has been established in their place to provide defined contribution benefits for all eligible uK employees.
A full actuarial valuation of the uK plan is carried out every three years by an independent actuary for the uK plan trustee and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 December 2009.
At that date, the market value of plan assets was 401.9m and this represented a funding level of 88% of the accrued plan benefits at the time using the projected unit method of valuation of 456.4m.
calculated on a buy-out basis using an estimation of the cost of buying out the uK plan benefits with an insurance company, the liabilities at that date were 589.0m, representing a funding level of 68%.
During 2009 it was agreed, in consultation with the uK plan trustee, to reduce the level of top-up payments made in addition to normal cash contributions from 14.0m per annum such that, with effect from February 2009, no further additional payments would be made until August 2010. the triennial funding valuation for the uK plan as at the end of 2009 was completed in July 2010, based upon which the company and trustee agreed a new schedule of contributions which commenced in August 2010, whereby the company will make top-up payments of 7.0m per annum until February 2016, targeted at eliminating the deficit in the uK plan by that date.
the level of top-up payments will be reviewed based on the uK plans next triennial valuation as of December 2012, which should be available in mid-2013.
in July 2010, the uK government announced changes to the inflation index used for statutory pension increases both for pensions in payment and pensions in deferment to apply to private sector pension schemes.
the company, the uK plan trustee and their respective legal advisers are currently working to clarify how this impacts the uK plan and will communicate with any affected members in 2011. the uK plan operates a hedging strategy, using a combination of swaps and bonds, to mitigate the impact of interest rate and inflation rate movements on the value of its projected liabilities for meeting future pension payments the uK plans economic liabilities, the value of which is related more to interest rate and inflation rate swap yields than to corporate bond yields, upon which the discount rate used for iAs 19 valuation purposes is based.
When the relationship between the relevant swap yields and corporate bond yields is stable, the uK plans hedging strategy should deliver a broadly stable funding ratio the ratio of plan assets to plan liabilities not just in relation to the uK plans economic liabilities, but also under an iAs 19 basis of valuation.
As at 31 December 2010, the estimated funding position incorporating the uK plans economic liabilities showed a funding ratio of 92%, with the iAs 19 valuation reflecting a funding ratio of 101%.
this represents a valuation difference of 41m, reflecting partly the use of differing discount rates, but also the use of stronger mortality assumptions for funding purposes.
the Group continues to fund the uK plan with reference to its economic funding position.
the Group has a number of defined benefit plans in the us, providing retirement benefits based on final salary or a fixed benefit.
in addition, the Groups us Retirement security plan has characteristics similar to defined contribution plans but with a minimum performance level guaranteed by the Group on the members accounts.
the cash balance rate assumption in the table in note 38.2 b refers to the assumed minimum guaranteed return on members accounts.
the Retirement security plan and the Groups other principal us defined benefit plans are closed to new members and also to future benefit accrual for existing members, with future pension benefit being provided, where appropriate, through a defined contribution arrangement.
Actuarial valuations of the us defined benefit pension plans are carried out every year and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 December 2009.
At that date the market value of the plan assets was 93.4m, representing a funding level of 63% of accrued plan benefits at that date using the projected unit method of valuation of 147.5m.
Funding levels for the Groups us defined benefit pension plans are normally based upon annual valuations carried out by independent qualified actuaries and are governed by us government regulations.
the Group has a number of defined benefit pension arrangements in Germany which are unfunded, as is common practice in that country.
co. uk 92 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 38.
EmPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED 38.1 GROUP POST-RETIREmENT PLANS CONTINUED b Defined contribution pension plans the Groups principal defined contribution plans are in the uK and the us and the assets of the plans are held separately from the Group in trusteeadministered funds.
the total expense for these plans in the Group income statement amounted to 15.7m 2009: 12.7m and represents the contributions payable for the year by the Group to the plans.
c Other post-retirement defined benefit plans the Groups principal defined benefit plans for employees other than pensions are healthcare benefit arrangements in the us and uK.
As is common for these types of plan, the costs of providing these benefits are not funded externally by the Group.
in December 2009, the termination of certain us retiree medical benefit arrangements was announced, effective from 1 January 2011.
38.2 POST-RETIREmENT LIABILITY VALUATION AND RISK mITIGATION the assumptions used in calculating the costs and obligations of the Groups defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, as detailed below, are set by the Directors after consultation with independent professionally qualified actuaries.
a mortality assumptions the mortality assumptions used in the actuarial valuations of the Groups uK, us and German defined benefit pension liabilities are summarised in the table below and have been selected to reflect the characteristics and experience of the membership of those plans.
For the uK plan, the 2010 assumptions used have been derived from the self-Administered pension schemes sAps All table, with future longevity improvements in line with the core mortality improvement tables recently published by the continuous mortality investigation cmi, with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per annum.
the latter cmi tables are expected to replace the use of the cohort improvement factors widely used since 2002. this approach for the 2010 assumptions represents a strengthening of the mortality assumptions from those used in 2009, which were based on pA 92 tables projected forward with adjustments to reflect i a scaling factor of 112%, to take into account the lower level of life expectancy amongst the blue collar membership: ii the medium cohort improvement factors: and iii a minimum level, or underpin, to the amount by which life expectancy is expected to improve at each age in the future, which has the effect of increasing the life expectancy at age 65 by some 0.5 years for someone currently aged 65 and by up to 2 years for someone currently aged 45.
For the Groups us plans, as in 2009, the assumptions used have been based on the standard Rp2000cH mortality tables, projected 64 years for non-pensioners and 33 years for pensioners using projection scale AA.
the Groups major plans in Germany have been valued using the HeubeckRichttafeln 2005G mortality tables, as they were in 2009.
2010 2009 UK US Germany uK us Germany Life expectancy of pension plan members years years years years years years Age to which current pensioners are expected to live men 87.1 84.6 84.3 86.5 84.6 84.1 Women 89.1 86.9 88.4 89.1 86.9 88.3 Age to which future pensioners are expected to live men 89.0 86.6 87.0 88.4 86.6 86.9 Women 91.1 89.1 91.0 90.4 89.1 90.8 18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 93 38.
EmPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED 38.2 POST-RETIREmENT LIABILITY VALUATION AND RISK mITIGATION CONTINUED b Other principal actuarial valuation assumptions 2010 2009 UK US Germany uK us Germany % p. a.
Discount rate 5.40 5.25 4.60 5.65 6.00 5.10 price inflation 3.60 2.50 2.00 3.80 2.50 2.00 Rate of increase in pensionable salaries n a n a 2.75 4.80 n a 2.75 Rate of increase to pensions in payment 3.40 n a 1.90 3.60 n a 1.90 cash balance rate n a 5.25 n a n a 5.25 n a expected asset return equities 7.60 8.80 n a 8.00 8.70 n a bonds 4.50 5.40 n a 4.70 4.80 n a Healthcare cost trend rate long-term 5.60 6.50 n a 5.80 5.50 n a next year 5.60 8.50 n a 5.80 8.50 n a Discount rate the discount rate used to determine the liabilities of the uK plan for iAs 19 accounting purposes is required to be determined by reference to market yields on high quality corporate bonds.
the uK discount rate in the above table is based on the annualised yield on the iBoxx over 15 year AA-rated sterling corporate bond index: the us discount rate is based on the equivalent iBoxx index for us domestic corporations: and the German discount rate is based on the yield on the iBoxx over 10 year euro corporates AA index.
Price inflation the assumptions for price inflation are set by reference to the difference between yields on longer-term conventional government bonds and index-linked bonds.
Expected asset return the expected asset return is the companys expectation at the valuation date of long-term asset returns.
these are based on the risk-free yield available by following a buy and hold investment strategy in government bonds.
Returns for other bonds and equities are then estimated based on observed historic long-term strategic risk premia.
these assumptions do not take account of the relative valuation of markets or of market momentum.
the Groups major post-retirement investment portfolios are those related to its uK and us plans.
Both portfolios are invested in equities, bonds and cash.
in addition, the uK plan invests in infrastructure, absolute return strategies and derivative contracts for risk mitigation.
An investment in real estate is planned for 2011.
During september 2010 the uK plans bond portfolio was restructured, liquidating the previous synthetic bond portfolio cash and swaps and replacing it predominantly with long duration portfolios of uK government bonds and uK corporate bonds.
there are also smaller portfolios of global high yield debt and emerging market debt and provision for a portfolio of index linked gilts once their value is considered acceptable.
the rationale for this change was to diversify the fund exposures and to reduce dependence on the swaps market.
the majority of the Groups total post-retirement assets are in bonds and equities and, for the purpose of the 2010 iAs 19 valuation, management makes assumptions as to the expected arithmetic long-term returns for these assets.
Based on expectations as at December 2010 and the asset mix of the Groups uK plan and of its us plans: the expected return for the respective bond portfolios is partway between treasury and corporate bond yields, specifically 4.5% for the uK plan and 5.4% for the us plans: and the expected return on the respective equity portfolios is expected to outperform long duration government bonds by a margin of 3.5% in the uK plan and 4.6% in the us plans.
co. uk 94 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 38.
EmPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED 38.2 POST-RETIREmENT LIABILITY VALUATION AND RISK mITIGATION CONTINUED c UK pension plan risk mitigation strategy the company and the uK plan trustee consider the following to be the major investment risks which could affect the value of the uK plans assets compared to the value of its economic liabilities: interest rate risk: the risk of government bond interest rates falling, leading to an increase in the value of plan liabilities.
inflation risk: the risk of inflation rising faster than expected, leading to an increase in the value of plan liabilities.
equity market risk: the risk of significant equity market falls, leading to a fall in the value of plan assets.
in order to mitigate these key risks, the trustee has mandated the following financial derivative contracts which materially reduce the risk that the uK plans assets would fall materially relative to the value of its economic liabilities: An interest rate swap overlay designed together with the bond portfolios to mitigate approximately 75% of the interest rate risk of the plan liabilities as measured on an ongoing basis.
under these contracts the uK plan receives a fixed rate of interest and pays out a variable rate of interest, based on the London inter Bank Offered Rate.
this is beneficial when long-term interest rates fall, significantly offsetting the corresponding increase in the value of the uK plans economic liabilities.
in December 2010 an interest rate swaption collar was transacted, designed to mitigate the remaining 25% of interest rate risk in the case of extreme market movements during the next three years.
inflation swaps designed, together with the bond portfolio, to mitigate approximately 70% of the effective inflation risk of the plan liabilities as measured on an ongoing basis.
the uK plan pays out a fixed rate of interest and receives payments indexed with actual inflation.
this is beneficial when inflation increases faster than expected and significantly offsets the adverse impact on the funding ratio.
in september 2010, the equity option contracts taken out to protect the uK plan from an initial fall in equity prices were approaching their expiry date and the cost of a new option strategy was considered too expensive.
consequently, the equity option contracts were liquidated, but at the same time the value of the uK plans equity portfolio was reduced so that the overall effective exposure of the uK plan to equities was not materially changed.
d Sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in key IAS 19 actuarial assumptions the following table analyses, for the Groups main uK, us and German pension plans, the theoretical estimated impact on plan liabilities resulting from changes to key actuarial assumptions used for iAs 19 valuation purposes, whilst holding all other assumptions constant.
it should be noted that the investment strategy adopted by the uK plan, details of which are given above, was designed to mitigate a significant majority of the interest rate and inflation risk related to the uK plans economic liabilities.
the stabilising impact of this strategy is not reflected in the following table.
Impact on plan liabilities Assumption Change in assumption UK US Germany Discount rate increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 1.9% Decrease increase by 1.3% Decrease increase by 1.5% price inflation increase decrease by 0.1% increase decrease by 1.4% n a increase decrease by 0.8% mortality increase by one year increase by 4.0% increase by 3.2% increase by 2.1% With regard to the Groups post-retirement healthcare benefit plans, a 1% increase in the healthcare cost trend rate assumptions shown in the table in note 38.2 b would increase the accumulated post-employment medical benefit obligation by 0.2m without changing the post-employment medical benefit costs and a 1% decrease in the healthcare cost trend rate assumptions would reduce the obligation by 0.1m without changing the post-employment medical benefit costs.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 95 38.
EmPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED 38.3 DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION the liabilities of the Groups defined benefit pension and other post-retirement plans for iAs 19 accounting purposes are measured by discounting the best estimate of the future cash flows to be paid out by the plans using the projected unit method, in which the calculation of plan liabilities makes allowance, where appropriate, for projected increases in benefit-related earnings.
co. uk 96 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 38.
the uK trustees target allocation is currently 25% liquid return assets mainly equities, but also global high yield and emerging market debt, 56% bonds, 6% infrastructure investments, 6% hedge funds, 2% cash and 5% in property investments.
in addition, the uK plan holds a liability driven investment portfolio of financial derivative contracts which materially reduce the risk that the uK plans assets would fall materially relative to the value of its economic liabilities.
b US pension plan assets not recognised above in addition to the assets reported above, 3.9m 2009: 3.9m of assets were held as at 31 December 2010 to fund certain non-qualified us pension plan obligations note 24. these assets are not included within pension plan assets as they are available to satisfy creditors in the event of the winding-up of the Group company in which they are held and are reported as investments in the Group balance sheet.
c Defined benefit contributions in 2011 the Group is expected to make aggregate contributions into its defined benefit pension plans of around 20m in 2011. the Group is also expected to make aggregate contributions in respect of its other post-retirement benefit plans of around 2m in 2011. the triennial funding valuation for the uK plan as at the end of 2009 was completed in July 2010, based upon which the company and uK plan trustee agreed a new schedule of contributions which commenced in August 2010 whereby the company will make top-up payments of 7.0m per annum until February 2016, targeted at eliminating the deficit in the uK plan by that date.
d Actual return on plan assets the actual return on all Group pension plan assets was 63.5m 2009: 33.3m.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 97 38.
EmPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED 38.5 BALANCE SHEET RECOGNITION the amount recognised in the Group balance sheet in respect of the Groups defined benefit retirement plans and other post-retirement benefit plans is analysed in the following tables.
co. uk 98 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 38.
EmPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED 38.6 INCOmE STATEmENT RECOGNITION the expense recognised in the Group income statement in respect of the Groups defined benefit retirement plans and other post-retirement benefits plans is shown below.
2010 2009 Other Other Defined postDefined postbenefits retirement benefits retirement pension benefits pension benefits plans plans Total plans plans total m m m m m m current service cost 5.9 0.6 6.5 5.6 0.5 6.1 interest on obligation 35.9 0.4 36.3 32.9 1.3 34.2 expected return on plan assets 32.7 32.7 29.4 29.4 Gains losses relating to employee benefits plans 5.3 5.3 0.2 9.8 9.6 Restructuring and integration charges 0.8 0.8 Total expense 3.8 1.0 4.8 10.1 8.0 2.1 the total expense recognised in the Group income statement in respect of the Groups defined benefit retirement plans and other post-retirement benefits plans is recognised in the following lines: 2010 2009 m m in arriving at trading profit within other manufacturing costs 2.5 2.3 within administration, selling and distribution costs 4.0 3.9 in arriving at profit from operations within restructuring and integration charges 0.8 gains relating to employee benefits plans 5.3 9.7 in arriving at profit loss before tax within ordinary finance costs 36.3 34.2 within finance income 32.7 29.4 Total expense 4.8 2.1 With effect from 31 July 2010, the uK plan was closed to future benefit accrual.
this closure, together with the closure of one of the remaining defined benefit plans in the us, resulted in the recognition of curtailment gains of 5.3m in the year.
the net gain relating to employee benefits plans of 9.7m in 2009 principally arose in relation to the reduction in the costs of providing benefits under the Groups us post-retirement medical arrangements.
38.7 HISTORICAL INFORmATION the history of the fair value of the Groups plan assets, the present value of defined benefit obligations, the net deficit in the plans and the experience adjustments on plan assets and liabilities are shown below.
Defined benefit pension plans 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m Fair value of pension plan assets 590.4 531.9 526.4 389.0 351.6 present value of defined benefit pension obligations 694.5 654.3 592.6 463.6 483.3 Net pension plan deficit 104.1 122.4 66.2 74.6 131.7 Experience gains losses on pension plan liabilities 6.3 3.6 5.6 0.3 23.1 Experience gains losses on pension plan assets 30.8 3.9 15.6 0.9 2.9 Other post-retirement benefit plans 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligations net deficit 9.7 15.3 29.1 21.5 23.4 Experience gains losses on plan liabilities 2.8 0.2 1.2 0.1 2.2 the cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income is 85.9m 2009: 88.4m.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 99 39.
SHARE-BASED PAYmENTS 39.1 SHARE-BASED PAYmENT PLANS the Group operates a number of different share-based payment plans: the main features of each plan are outlined below.
a Long-term incentive plan LTIP the Ltip was introduced in 2004 to replace the Groups executive share option schemes.
the Ltip has two elements.
Firstly, executives who are eligible receive a conditional annual award of shares worth up to a prescribed percentage of their base salary performance shares.
secondly, executives who are eligible can elect to invest all or part of their annual incentive in ordinary shares of the company investment shares in return for which they receive a conditional award of ordinary shares worth up to 2.25 times the pre-tax equivalent of the annual incentive so invested matching shares.
in addition, for awards made after 7 march 2008, the Remuneration committee has the discretion to award participants the dividends that would have been paid on the number of shares that vest in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the award date and the date of vesting.
performance shares and matching shares can vest after three years, with the proportion of shares vesting being based on the companys performance against specified performance conditions.
For outstanding and future awards, vesting of 50% of shares awarded will be based on the Groups three-year total shareholder Return tsR performance relative to that of a comparator group, the Ftse 250 excluding investment trusts, and 50% on Headline earnings per share Headline eps, the calculation of which is shown in note 16 growth over a three-year period.
the two measures operate independently.
Vesting of performance shares and matching shares under the outstanding and future Ltip awards will be based on tsR performance and Headline eps growth in accordance with the schedules disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 39.
An executives matching shares award will only vest if the investment shares originally purchased have been retained.
the fair value of awards granted under the Ltip are measured using a stochastic pricing model for those shares based on tsR performance, and using a Blackscholes pricing model for those shares based on Headline eps performance.
b Executive option schemes ESOS the last executive share option grant was made in 2003. under these schemes, share options were granted at the market price prevailing at the time of grant.
Options normally only became exercisable if the growth in Headline eps was at least equal to the increase in the Rpi plus 3% per annum for a consecutive three-year period.
the fair value of awards granted under the esOs was measured using a stochastic pricing model.
c UK and international Sharesave schemes SAYE schemes the last grant under the sAYe schemes was made in 2004. under the sAYe schemes, employees had the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the company at a discounted price of up to 20% by using their savings together with an additional tax-free bonus at the end of their saving period.
the schemes operated in conjunction with a three or five-year savings contract and options were granted at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of the shares at the date of grant.
employees who entered into these contracts had to make monthly savings of between 5 and 250. the fair value of awards granted under the sAYe schemes was measured using a Blackscholes pricing model.
d Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP in 2007, the company implemented a new DsBp in place of the Ltip for certain senior managers.
under this plan, executives receive an allocation of deferred shares to the value of a percentage of their annual bonus.
these shares vest after three years, although an executives allocation may lapse if their employment ceases in certain circumstances before the end of the three-year period.
the fair value of awards granted under the DsBp scheme is measured using a Blackscholes pricing model.
e Stock Appreciation Rights SAR Due to the disadvantageous tax regime in Belgium, Belgian participants in the esOs and sAYe schemes received sAR instead of share options.
these sAR were awarded under exactly the same rights and conditions as the share options, except that individuals received, in cash, the difference between the subscription price and market price of company shares on the date of exercise, rather than having the right to purchase shares.
co. uk 100 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 39.
SHARE-BASED PAYmENTS CONTINUED 39.2 DETAILS OF OUTSTANDING OPTIONS the company has followed the transitional provisions of iFRs 2 and applied it to those options that were granted after 7 november 2002 and which had not vested by 1 January 2005. the following disclosures are only in respect of those options that fall within the scope of iFRs 2. the number of options and the associated share prices in the tables below have been restated to reflect the bonus element of the shares issued under the terms of the rights issue which completed on 4 march 2009 and the 10 for 1 share consolidation completed on 14 may 2009.
Awards weighted Outstanding awards exercisable average As at As at as at outstanding Range of 1 January Forfeited 31 December 31 December contractual exercise 2010 Granted Exercised lapsed 2010 2010 life of awards prices no.
Awards Weighted Outstanding awards exercisable average As at As at as at outstanding Range of 1 January Forfeited 31 December 31 December contractual exercise 2009 Granted exercised lapsed 2009 2009 life of awards prices no.
SHARE-BASED PAYmENTS CONTINUED 39.3 OPTIONS GRANTED DURING THE YEAR 2010 2009 LTIP Ltip EPS TSR eps tsR DSBP element element DsBp element element Fair value of options granted per share 586p 586p 468p 175p 175p 84p share price on date of grant per share 586p 586p 586p 175p 175p 175p expected volatility n a n a 58.8% n a n a 39.7% Risk-free interest rate n a n a 1.8% n a n a 1.7% exercise price per share nil nil nil nil nil nil expected term years 3 3 3 3 3 3 expected dividend yield 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% share price volatility for options granted in 2010 and 2009 is based upon weekly movements in the companys share price over a period prior to the grant date that is equal in length to the expected term of the award.
39.4 INCOmE STATEmENT RECOGNITION the total expense recognised in the Group income statement is shown below.
2010 2009 m m Ltip 6.6 1.0 DBp 0.2 0.1 sAR 0.1 Total expense 6.9 1.1 the total intrinsic value at the end of the year for cash-settled share-based payments that had vested was 0.1m 2009: nil.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2010 2009 m m Non-current Accruals and other payables 22.0 25.3 Deferred purchase consideration 1.1 1.9 Total non-current other payables 23.1 27.2 Current trade payables 232.2 191.0 Other taxes and social security 46.3 35.1 Accruals and other payables 146.4 110.5 Deferred purchase consideration 0.8 0.9 Total current trade and other payables 425.7 337.5 there is no significant difference between the fair value of the Groups trade and other payables balances and the amount at which they are reported in the Group balance sheet.
co. uk 102 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 41.
PROVISIONS Restructuring Disposal and and closure integration costs charges Other Total m m m m As at 1 January 2010 34.9 44.5 14.1 93.5 exchange adjustments 1.4 0.1 0.1 1.4 charge to Group income statement 2.1 16.4 1.1 19.6 unwind of discount 1.4 1.4 2.8 cash spend 5.5 23.8 2.2 31.5 As at 31 December 2010 34.3 38.4 13.1 85.8 2010 2009 m m Recognised in the Group balance sheet as: non-current provisions 53.2 56.6 current provisions 32.6 36.9 Total provisions 85.8 93.5 the provision for disposal and closure costs includes the Directors current best estimate of the costs to be incurred both in the fulfilment of obligations undertaken in connection with former Group businesses, resulting from either disposal or closure, together with those related to the demolition and clean-up of closed sites.
the provision comprises amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting both from legal or other regulatory requirements, or from third-party claims, including claims relating to product liability.
As the settlement of many of the obligations for which provision is made is subject to legal or other regulatory process, the timing of the associated cash outflows is subject to some uncertainty, but the majority of the amounts provided are expected to be utilised over the next five years and the underlying estimates of costs are regularly updated to reflect changed circumstances with regard to individual matters.
the provision for restructuring and integration charges includes the costs of all of the Groups initiatives to rationalise its operating activities.
the balance of 38.4m as at 31 December 2010 comprises 25.1m in relation to onerous lease provisions in respect of leases terminating between three and eighteen years, and 13.3m in relation to future expenditure on restructuring initiatives, the majority of which commenced in 2009 and 2010 and which is expected to be paid out over the next two years.
Other provisions comprise amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting both from legal or other regulatory requirements, or from third-party claims.
As the settlement of many of the obligations for which provision is made is subject to legal or other regulatory process, the timing of the associated outflows is subject to some uncertainty, but the majority of the amounts provided are expected to be utilised over the next five years and the underlying estimates of costs are regularly updated to reflect changed circumstances with regard to individual matters.
Where insurance cover exists for any of these known or probable costs, a related asset is recognised in the Group balance sheet only when its realisation is virtually certain.
As at 31 December 2010, 10.1m 2009: 10.1m was recorded in receivables in respect of associated insurance reimbursements, of which 7.5m 2009: 7.5m is non-current.
the amounts reported in the table above as charged to the Group income statement represent only that part of the total income statement charge reported as a movement on provisions.
Other components of the charge, such as asset write-offs, are reported as a reduction in the carrying value of the relevant balance sheet item.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 103 42.
ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES, NET OF CASH ACQUIRED During 2010 an additional 2.9m was invested in the Groups joint ventures, along with 1.0m of deferred consideration in respect of prior year acquisitions.
the fair value of net assets acquired was 0.5m of which 0.3m was cash and 4.7m was invested in joint ventures.
Goodwill arising on these acquisitions amounted to 3.0m note 21. in 2009, the Group acquired interests in subsidiaries and joint ventures for a total consideration of 8.2m, of which 5.9m was paid in cash and 2.3m was deferred, subject to future earn-out arrangements.
DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES, NET OF CASH DISPOSED 2010 2009 Continuing Discontinued continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations total m m m m m m Net consideration net proceeds received 6.2 6.2 6.2 6.2 proceeds receivable 0.9 0.9 provision for future disposal costs 1.9 1.2 3.1 3.4 3.4 Total net consideration 4.3 1.2 3.1 7.1 3.4 3.7 Assets and liabilities disposed property, plant and equipment note 20 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 Attributable goodwill note 21 1.3 1.3 1.5 1.5 trade working capital 1.6 1.6 1.3 1.3 Assets previously classified as held for sale 1.8 1.8 0.3 0.3 Net assets disposed 4.9 4.9 3.4 3.4 Loss profit on disposal of operations 0.6 1.2 1.8 3.7 3.4 0.3 Net cash received from disposals net proceeds received for current year disposals 6.2 6.2 6.2 6.2 net costs paid for prior years disposals 1.1 2.7 3.8 0.8 4.5 5.3 Net cash inflow outflow from disposals 5.1 2.7 2.4 5.4 4.5 0.9 Recognition in the Group statement of cash flows Disposal of subsidiaries and joint ventures 6.2 6.2 6.2 6.2 Other investing outflows 1.1 2.7 3.8 0.8 4.5 5.3 Net cash inflow outflow from disposals 5.1 2.7 2.4 5.4 4.5 0.9 no cash or cash equivalents were disposed of in the year 2009: nil.
COmmITmENTS 2010 2009 m m Capital commitments contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 9.8 2.4 Operating lease commitments the future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable as follows: not later than one year 17.3 17.6 Later than one year and not later than five years 41.7 40.7 Later than five years 49.2 57.5 Total operating lease commitments 108.2 115.8 cooksongroup.
co. uk 104 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEmENTS 44.
COmmITmENTS CONTINUED the Groups property, plant and equipment assets are either purchased outright or held under lease contracts.
in accordance with the accounting policy in note 3.19, where the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to the Group, the asset is capitalised in the Group balance sheet and the corresponding liability to the lessor is recognised as a finance lease obligation.
Where all the risks and rewards of ownership are not transferred to the Group, the lease is classified as an operating lease and neither the asset nor the corresponding liability to the lessor is recognised in the Group balance sheet.
As disclosed in the table above, as at 31 December 2010 the Group was committed to making 108.2m 2009: 115.8m of future payments in respect of assets held under non-cancellable operating leases.
the cost incurred by the Group in the year in respect of assets held under operating leases, all of which was charged within trading profit, amounted to 25.6m 2009: 24.4m.
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEmENTS in compliance with current reporting requirements, certain arrangements entered into by the Group in its normal course of business do not get reported in the Group balance sheet.
Of such arrangements, those considered material by the Directors include: inventory held under precious metal consignment arrangements note 27 : future lease payments in relation to assets used by the Group under non-cancellable operating leases note 44 : and trade receivable balances that have been subject to non-recourse factoring arrangements.
under its non-recourse factoring arrangements, the Group sells trade receivables balances to a third-party factoring company in exchange for a cash payment from the factoring company, net of fees.
All the risks and rewards of the trade receivables subject to these arrangements are transferred to the factoring company and, accordingly, the trade receivables are derecognised in the Group balance sheet.
such arrangements are used from time to time by the Group to manage the recovery of cash from its trade receivables.
As at 31 December 2010, the Group balance sheet included 39.4m 31 December 2009: 34.2m of cash that would otherwise have been reported as trade receivables if these arrangements were not in place.
Factoring fees incurred during the year ended 31 December 2010, which are written off to the Group income statement within ordinary finance costs, amounted to 1.5m 2009: 1.4m.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Guarantees given by the Group under property leases of operations disposed of amounted to 4.1m 2009: 3.9m.
Details of guarantees given by the company, on behalf of the Group, are given in note 19 to the company financial statements.
the Group has extensive international operations and is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, including those covering taxation and environmental matters.
While the outcome of litigation can never be predicted with certainty, having regard to legal advice received and the Groups insurance arrangements, the Directors believe that none of these matters will, either individually or in the aggregate, have a materially adverse effect on the Groups financial position or results of operations.
Legal claims have been brought against certain Group companies by third parties alleging that persons have been harmed by exposure to hazardous materials used by those companies in the manufacture of industrial and consumer products, and further claims may be brought in the future.
certain of the Groups subsidiaries are subject to lawsuits, predominately in the us, relating to a small number of products containing asbestos manufactured prior to the acquisition of those subsidiaries by the Group.
these suits usually also name many other product manufacturers.
to date, the Group is not aware of there being any liability verdicts against any of these subsidiaries.
A number of lawsuits have been withdrawn, dismissed or settled and the amount paid, including costs, in relation to this litigation has not had a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position or results of operations.
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES Details of the principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of cookson Group plc and the countries in which they are incorporated are given in note 7 to the company financial statements.
RELATED PARTIES All transactions with related parties are conducted on an arms length basis and in accordance with normal business terms.
transactions between related parties that are Group subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
During the year, Group subsidiaries made sales of products and services to Group joint venture companies of 1.7m 2009: 1.1m and made purchases of goods and services from Group joint venture companies of 13.5m 2009: 12.3m.
As at 31 December 2010, amounts owed by the Groups joint ventures to Group subsidiaries was nil 2009: nil and amounts owed to Group joint ventures by Group subsidiaries was nil 2009: nil.
Details of related party information in relation to key management personnel are given in note 11.2.
