com Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Significant Accounting Policies Applicable to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 Basis of preparation with similarly titled profit measurements reported by any other company.
It is The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures of profit.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European These underlying measures are calculated based on reported profit before Union, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC exceptional items, certain re-measurement items and adjustments to reflect the interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting realised gains and losses on foreign exchange forward contracts and accrued under IFRS.
Avis Europe plc is a public limited company incorporated, listed and interest cash flows on certain derivative financial instruments economic hedge domiciled in the UK.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been adjustments.
prepared under the historical cost convention as modified as described below by the revaluation of certain derivative instruments and borrowing balances, the Exceptional items recognition of retirement benefit obligations using the projected unit method, These are material non-recurring items that derive from events or transactions and the recognition in the Income Statement of the fair value of share based that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group, and which individually or, if payments.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance of a similar type, in aggregate, are separately disclosed by virtue of their size or with the accounting policies set out below.
These policies are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the Certain re-measurement items Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009, Items that represent re-measurement of underlying assets or liabilities for except for the adoption of the following new standards, interpretations and example due to interest rate or exchange rate changes are presented as amendments to published standards which are effective in year ended certain re-measurement items.
Events which may give rise to the classification 31 December 2010, where applicable: of gains and losses as certain re-measurement items include fair value gains and losses on derivatives in accordance with the financial instruments and The following new standards, amendments to standards or interpretations are hedge accounting policy below: and exchange gains and losses arising upon mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2010 the translation of foreign currency borrowings at the closing rate.
and have been applied by the Group where relevant and have had no significant impact on the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements.
Economic hedge adjustments Under IAS 39, the Group applies hedge accounting to hedge relationships IFRS 3 revised 2008, Business combinations effective from 1 July 2009. primarily forward exchange contracts, cross currency interest rate swaps and IFRS 5 Amendment, Non-current assets held-for-sale and discontinued interest rate swaps where it is both permissible and practicable to do so.
Due operations, and consequential amendment to IFRS 1, First-time adoption of to the nature of its economic hedging relationships, in a number of International Financial Reporting Standards effective from 1 July 2009. circumstances the Group is unable to apply hedge accounting to these IFRIC 17, Distributions of non-cash assets to owners effective from 1 July derivatives.
The Group continues, however, to enter into these arrangements as 2009. they provide certainty of the exchange rates applying to the foreign currency IFRIC 18, Transfers of assets from customers effective from 1 July 2009. transactions entered into by the Group and the interest rate on the Groups debt.
These arrangements result in fixed and determined cash flows.
The Group Note that the following new standards, interpretations and amendments to believes that these arrangements remain effective as economic hedges, and published standards are effective for annual periods beginning on or after the therefore adjustment is made to reported profit measures such that the stated effective date, and have therefore not been adopted to date: underlying profit reflects full application of hedge accounting.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments effective 1 January 2013.
Basis of consolidation IAS 24 revised, Related party disclosures effective 1 January 2011.
The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise a consolidation of the IAS 32, Financial instruments: presentation amendment Classification of accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
IFRIC 14 Amendment, Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement The accounting reference dates of certain of the Groups subsidiary effective 1 January 2011. undertakings and its associated undertaking are governed by local IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments requirements and are not coterminous with the Groups 31 December year effective 1 July 2010. end.
For those companies with non-coterminous year ends, management accounts for the relevant period to 31 December have been consolidated.
The Management are currently reviewing the impact of the above.
The application main subsidiary undertaking with such a non-coterminous year end is Avis of IFRS9, Financial Instruments, and IAS24, Related party disclosures, will Autonoleggio SpA 30 June.
In the opinion of the Directors, the expense of result in further disclosure amendments once those standards become providing such additional coterminous statutory accounts, together with effective.
The other new standards, interpretations and amendments are not potential consequential delay in producing the Groups Consolidated Financial currently expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial Statements, would outweigh any benefit to the shareholders.
Subsidiary undertakings Underlying measures Subsidiary undertakings are those entities in which the Group has, directly or In addition to total performance measures, the Group also discloses additional indirectly, an interest of more than half of the voting rights or otherwise has the underlying performance measures, including underlying profit and underlying power to exercise control over the operations.
Subsidiaries are accounted for earnings per share.
The Group believes that these underlying performance using the acquisition method of accounting.
The amount of profits or losses for a measures provide additional useful information on business trends.
The term reporting period allocated to non-controlling interests is adjusted and separately underlying is not defined under IFRS, and may therefore not be comparable disclosed in the Income Statement against income of the Group for the year.
com Annual Report 2010 51 Joint ventures and associate undertaking Consistent with presentation in its management accounts, the Group separately Joint ventures are undertakings in which the Group has an interest and which discloses the results of its corporately-owned operations, Avis Licensee and are jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other parties.
The Chief Executive focuses on these separate are undertakings in which the Group has an investment and can exercise business segments given their relative contribution to overall Group profitability, significant influence.
Such interests are accounted for using the equity method and with their significantly different risks and rewards.
and are stated in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost, adjusted for movement in the Groups share of their net assets and liabilities.
The Groups Due to the network nature of the Groups operations and the extensive share of the profit or loss after tax of joint ventures and associates is included interdependencies within that network, the corporately-owned business unit is in the Groups share of profit before taxation.
managed under a matrix structure with key management personnel responsible for both functions across the whole of the corporately-owned business Functional currency and foreign exchange segment, as well as for the performance of certain geographies.
The functional currency of the Company is sterling.
However, as a significant proportion of the Groups revenues, costs, assets and funding arise in euro, the Revenue Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group are presented in euro.
Revenue includes both vehicle rental income and income from the disposal of vehicles not subject to manufacturer repurchase agreements, and excludes Foreign exchange translation: inter-company sales, value added and sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised The Group consolidation is prepared in sterling.
Income statements of foreign when the outcome of a transaction involving the rendering of services operations are translated into sterling at the weighted average exchange rates including the provision of licence rights can be estimated reliably by reference for the period and balance sheets are translated into sterling at the exchange to the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date.
The rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments outcome of a transaction can be estimated reliably when all of the following are arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as local currency assets satisfied: a the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: b it is probable and liabilities of the foreign entity and are translated at the closing rate.
that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group: c the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at the exchange rate prevailing can be measured reliably: and d the cost incurred for the transaction and the at the date of the transactions.
Gains and losses resulting from the settlement costs to complete the transaction can be measured reliably.
of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the Income Statement.
Rental income Exchange movements arising from the retranslation at closing rates of the Rental revenue comprises charges for the rental of a vehicle and is recognised Groups net investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are taken on a daily rental basis.
Other revenue including charges arising from the to the translation reserve.
The Groups net investment includes the Groups provision of services incidental to vehicle rental such as the sale of fuel and share of net assets of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, and certain the provision of foreign exchange services to rental customers are recognised inter-company loans.
The net investment definition includes certain loans in line with underlying rental revenue.
Other revenue also includes fees between Group companies and other inter-company items denominated in any receivable from sub-licensees which is ordinarily recognised as a contracted currency.
Other exchange movements are taken to the Income Statement.
percentage of the rental revenue of each individual sub-licensee.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in euro.
The Licensee fees from Avis and Budget Licensees are ordinarily recognised as a consolidated sterling assets and liabilities at each balance sheet date are contracted percentage of the rental revenue of each individual licensee.
Where recalculated into euro at the closing rate at that balance sheet date.
The licensee arrangements include both up-front and ongoing fees, the consolidated sterling income and expenses are recalculated into euro at components are assigned across accounting periods based on the relative fair the average monthly exchange rates.
All resulting exchange differences are value of the service provided.
The Group generally determines the fair value of taken to the translation reserve.
individual elements based on prices at which the service component is regularly sold on a standalone basis.
Net investment hedges: Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign operations, the gains and Charges recovering the cost of damages incurred to vehicles are not losses relating to the effective portion of the hedging instrument is recognised recognised as revenue, but are netted against the related damage repair costs in the translation reserve in equity.
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective within cost of sales.
portion is recognised in the Income Statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Income Statement when the foreign operation is Disposal of vehicles not subject to manufacturer repurchase agreements disposed of.
Income from the disposal of vehicles not subject to manufacturer repurchase agreements, is recognised in revenue upon the transfer of legal title of the Segment reporting vehicle.
In accordance with IFRS8, Operating segments, the Group adopts a management approach to segment reporting such that segmental Customer loyalty programmes information is in the form which management uses internally for assessing The Group operates a small number of customer loyalty reward programmes of segment performance and deciding how to allocate resources to operating its own, whereby certain regular customers can accumulate credits that entitle segments.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the them to a choice of various awards and discounts, primarily free future rentals.
internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker being the In accordance with IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes, the fair value Group Chief Executive.
attributed to the awarded credits is netted against revenue, deferred as a liability and recognised as revenue on redemption of the rewards.
com Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Significant Accounting Policies continued Applicable to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 Cost of sales Goodwill Cost of sales includes selling, revenue and rental related costs e. g. Goodwill being the difference between the fair value of consideration paid for commissions and credit card fees and vehicle costs.
Cost of sales also new interests in group companies and the fair value of the Groups share of includes the book value of vehicles not subject to manufacturer repurchase their identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition agreements disposed in the period.
The Group participates in third party reward is capitalised.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is subject to annual review for schemes primarily airline frequent flyer loyalty programmes which involves the impairment or more frequently if necessary.
Any impairment is charged to the purchasing of air miles or points which are then used in promotional activity.
Income Statement as it arises.
These costs are recognised as part of selling costs upon customers qualifying to receive these rewards.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash Administrative expenses generating units, or groups of cash generating units, that are expected to Administrative expenses primarily comprise staff costs, non-vehicle related benefit from the synergies of the combination, irrespective of whether assets or rental charges and other overheads, and are recognised as an expense in the liabilities of the acquired business are assigned to those units or group of units.
period in which they are incurred.
Each unit, or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal Finance costs management purposes, and is not larger than an operating segment.
Any finance costs directly attributable to capital projects are capitalised as part of the individual project costs.
All other finance costs are recognised as an Other intangible assets expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Other intangible assets are valued at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Costs that are directly associated Taxation with identifiable and unique software products, and which have probable The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit economic benefits exceeding the cost beyond one year, are recognised as differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes intangible assets.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software, or that items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years.
It are not directly associated with identifiable and unique software products, are further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability expensed as incurred.
Computer software programmes are amortised on a for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or straight-line basis over periods varying between two and 10 years.
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Vehicles not subject to manufacturer repurchase agreements Current tax for current and prior periods, to the extent unpaid, is recognised as Vehicles are initially measured at cost, comprising the purchase price including a liability.
If the amount already paid in respect of current and prior periods any import duties and non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting trade exceeds the amount due for those periods, the excess is recognised as a discounts and rebates, plus any costs directly attributable to bringing the current asset.
The benefit relating to a tax loss that can be carried back to vehicle to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating.
recover current tax of a previous period is recognised as an asset.
After initial recognition, the vehicle is carried at its cost less any accumulated depreciation and any provisions for accumulated impairment losses.
StraightDeferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability method, on line depreciation is based on initial cost, after consideration of expected holding temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for periods ordinarily between 6 months and 3 years and estimated residual financial reporting purposes and the corresponding tax bases for taxation values.
Where the carrying amount of a vehicle is greater than its estimated purposes.
Deferred taxes are not calculated on the following temporary recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its anticipated differences: i the initial recognition of goodwill and ii the initial recognition of recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs assets and liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit.
The to sell and value in use.
amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected basis of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates Vehicles not subject to manufacturer repurchase agreements are transferred to enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax inventories when a disposal is highly probable, the vehicle is available for asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable immediate sale in its present condition and management are committed to the profits will be available against which the unused tax losses and credits can be asset disposal which is ordinarily imminent.
Deferred tax assets previously recognised are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Other property, plant and equipment Other property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation and Deferred tax is not recognised in relation to temporary differences associated impairment.
Cost comprises the purchase price including any import duties with unremitted earnings of the Groups overseas subsidiaries where the Group and non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting trade discounts and is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences rebates, plus any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating.
If applicable, initial estimates of the cost of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site are also included in the cost of the item.
Depreciation is provided on a Current and deferred tax are charged or credited to the Income Statement straight line basis based on the expected average useful lives of the assets and except when they relate to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which the residual values.
The main useful lives are as follows: case the tax is also dealt with in equity.
com Annual Report 2010 53 a Buildings: 40 to 50 years Inventories b Plant and equipment: 3 to 15 years Vehicles not subject to manufacturer repurchase agreements c Leased assets: depending on the length of the lease Vehicles not subject to manufacturer repurchase agreements are classified within inventories if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale Other property, plant and equipment is subject to review for impairment at each transaction rather than through continuing use.
Vehicles classified within balance sheet date or if triggering events or circumstances indicate this is inventories cease to be depreciated and are measured at the lower of carrying necessary.
Any impairment is charged to the Income Statement as it arises.
amount and fair value less selling costs.
Leases Fuel and vehicle parts Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
of inventories comprises all costs of purchase, costs of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their location and condition at the Operating leases for which the Group is the lessor balance sheet date.
Items are valued using the first in, first out method.
When Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
inventories are used, the carrying amount of those inventories is recognised as Vehicles leased out under operating leases are classified within property, plant an expense in the period in which the related revenue is recognised.
and equipment vehicles not subject to manufacturer repurchase agreements, unless they are held under operating leases for which the Group Financial Instruments is the lessee see below.
These vehicles are depreciated over their expected Financial assets useful lives.
The classification of financial assets is determined at initial recognition depending on the purpose for which they were acquired.
Any impairment is Operating leases for which the Group is the lessee recognised in the Income Statement as it arises.
Lease payments under operating leases net of any incentive received from the lessor are recognised as expenses in the Income Statement on a straight-line Trade and other receivables: basis over the lease term.
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, Vehicles subject to manufacturer repurchase agreements less provision for impairment.
Vehicles subject to manufacturer repurchase agreements are not recognised as non-current assets since these arrangements are accounted for as operating Cash and short term deposits: leases lessee accounting.
The difference between the initial payment and the Cash comprises cash in hand, demand deposits and bank overdrafts.
Cash fair value at inception of the final repurchase price the obligation of the equivalents include short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily manufacturer is considered as a deferred charge and is classified as prepaid convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant vehicle operating lease charges within trade and other receivables.
This risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in deferred charge is recognised within cost of sales on a straight line basis over current liabilities in the Balance Sheet.
the relevant vehicle holding period as hire of vehicles under repurchase agreements.
At inception of the arrangement, a separate repurchase Impairment of financial assets: agreement receivable is recognised within trade and other receivables for the At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether there is objective fair value of the final repurchase price.
Thereafter this repurchase agreement evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
receivable is recognised at amortised cost with the unwinding of the initial fair A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there value discount also recognised within cost of sales as part of the net operating is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts lease charge on manufacturer repurchase agreements, reflecting the due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the substance of the overall arrangement.
provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.
The carrying amount is Finance leases for which the Group is the lessee reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount Leases of vehicles including vehicles subject to manufacturer repurchase is recognised in the Income Statement within administrative expenses.
agreements and other property, plant and equipment, where the Group has When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, are classified as finance allowance account for trade receivables, with any subsequent recoveries leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower credited to administrative expenses.
of the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and the Financial liabilities finance charge so as to achieve a constant rate of return on the finance Financial liabilities including borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance net of transaction costs.
They are subsequently held at amortised cost unless charges, are included in interest-bearing liabilities.
The interest element of the part of a fair value hedge.
Any difference between the amount on initial finance cost is charged to the Income Statement over the lease period.
The recognition and redemption value is recognised in the Income Statement using leased assets are depreciated over their expected useful lives on a basis the effective interest method.
Short-term liabilities including trade and other consistent with similar owned vehicles or other property, plant and equipment.
payables are measured at original invoice amount.
If there is no reasonable certainty that ownership will be acquired by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and its useful life.
com Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Significant Accounting Policies continued Applicable to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 Derivatives Provisions The fair values of derivative financial instruments are determined using a A provision is recognised when there is a present obligation legal or number of methods and assumptions based on prevailing conditions at the constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of balance sheet date including market forward interest rates and exchange rates resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the at the balance sheet date.
Changes in fair value of derivative financial obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Provisions are measured at the value of the expenditures expected to be Income Statement as they arise.
required to settle the obligation.
Where the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using an appropriate rate that takes into account the Where hedge accounting is applied, the Group documents at the inception of risks specific to the liability.
the transaction: the relationship between the hedging instruments and hedged item: its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking the Uninsured claims transaction: its assessment both at inception and then ongoing of whether the The Group limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer and public liability derivatives are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows claims through insurance policies issued by third parties, but self insures of the related hedged items.
The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified subject to excess limits and annual aggregate stop losses for total claims.
A as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item provision is made for the estimated cost to the Group to settle claims for is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability if the remaining incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date, together with an estimate maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Trading derivatives are of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the classified as a current asset or liability.
balance sheet date but that have not yet been reported to the Group subject to the overall stop losses based on an assessment of the expected settlement on Cash flow hedges: known claims, and after taking appropriate professional advice.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity Retirement benefit obligations and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
The Group operates various defined benefit and defined contribution retirement If the cash flow hedge is a firm commitment or the forecast transaction results benefit plans.
in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had The charges to the Income Statement for defined contribution plans are the previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of Group contributions payable, and the assets and liabilities of such plans are not the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset included in the balance sheet of the Group.
or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the Income Statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
All defined benefit schemes are subject to regular actuarial review by external consultants using the projected unit method.
Service costs are systematically When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer allocated over the service lives of employees, and financing costs are meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in recognised in the periods in which they arise.
The costs of individual events equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast such as past service benefit enhancements, settlements and curtailments are transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income Statement.
When a forecast recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Variations from expected transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was costs, arising from experience of the plans, or changes in actuarial reported in equity is immediately reclassified to the Income Statement.
assumptions, are recognised immediately in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The defined benefit deficit or surplus in the balance sheet comprises Fair value hedges: the value for each plan of the fair value of the plan assets less the present For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value of a hedged value of the defined benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high item, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the quality corporate bonds.
risk being hedged with a corresponding entry in the Income Statement.
Gains or losses from re-measuring the derivative, or for non-derivatives the foreign Equity currency component of its carrying amount, are also recognised in the Income Own shares held Statement.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the Where the Company or its subsidiaries re-acquires its own equity instruments, adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective those instruments are deducted from equity as own shares held.
Where such interest method is used is amortised to the Income Statement over the period equity instruments are subsequently sold, any consideration received is to maturity.
Embedded derivatives: Share-based payments Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are The economic cost of awarding shares and share options is reflected by treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not recording a charge in the Income Statement equivalent to the fair value of the closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not benefit awarded over the relevant performance period.
Fair value is determined carried at fair value.
Embedded derivatives are held at fair value, with with reference to the share price at the date of grant.
Employer national unrealised gains and losses recognised in the Income Statement as they arise.
insurance contributions which are expected to be paid upon vesting of such options are also recognised in the Income Statement over the relevant performance period.
com Annual Report 2010 55 Critical accounting policies and judgements Share-based payments The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements requires The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference to the fair management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported value at the date at which they are granted.
This cost is recognised in the amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and disclosure of Income Statement over the period from grant to vesting date, being the date on contingencies at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
If the which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award, with a original estimates and assumptions are different to the subsequent actual corresponding increase in equity.
The cumulative expense recognised at each outcome, they are modified as appropriate in the period in which the reporting date, reflects the extent to which the period to vesting has expired and circumstances change.
The following policies are considered to be particularly the Directors best estimate of the number of options that will ultimately vest.
complex and or subject to the exercise of considerable judgement.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are those that, by virtue of their size or incidence, should be separately disclosed in the Income Statement.
The determination of which items should be separately disclosed as exceptional items requires judgement.
Fleet Given the nature of the Groups business, the main asset in the Balance Sheet is the vehicle fleet, a proportion of which has no guaranteed residual value and therefore the value at the end of the rental life will depend on the market for those vehicles at the time of disposal.
Judgement is therefore required in the estimation of residual values, with reference made to recent disposal experience, and external market data.
Trade and other receivables The Group regularly assesses the recoverability of its trade and other receivable balances.
Where there is evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts outstanding, a provision for impairment is recognised.
The Group utilises previous customer history, debtor ageing profiles and other relevant information in assessing the level of provision required.
Retirement benefit obligations Judgement is required in the setting of assumptions used by the actuaries in assessing the financial position of each defined benefit scheme.
The Group determines the assumptions to be adopted in discussion with its actuaries, and believes these assumptions to be in line with generally accepted practice, but the application of different assumptions could have a significant effect on the amounts reflected in the Income Statement and Balance Sheet in respect of post-employment benefits.
The sensitivity of principal scheme liabilities to changes in the assumptions used by actuaries is set out in Note 23.
Provisions The Group continues to carry provisions against exposures that arise in the normal course of trading, which include uninsured losses for which there is self-insurance using managements best estimate of the likely settlement of incidents.
The estimated settlement is reviewed on a regular basis and the amount provided is adjusted as required.
Provisions also cover areas such as termination and reorganisation activities and property reserves.
Judgement is involved in assessing the exposures in these areas and hence in setting the level of the required provision.
Taxation The Group is subject to taxation in a number of jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the Groups provision for current tax as there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain in the ordinary course of business.
Further judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets and liabilities should be recognised with consideration given to the timing and level of future taxable income.
