com Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Avis Europe plc We have audited the Parent Company Financial Statements of Avis Europe plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the Parent Company In our opinion: Balance Sheet, the Parent Company Cash Flow Statement, the Significant the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been Accounting Policies and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted which the Parent Company Financial Statements are prepared is consistent Accounting Practice.
with the Parent Company Financial Statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Matters on which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the on page 34, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Company Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and not visited by us: or International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of made: or the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these we have not received all the information and explanations we require for opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other our audit.
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of Avis Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements Europe plc for the year ended 31 December 2010.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Stephen Wootten Senior Statutory Auditor Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or for and on behalf of  LLP error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been Reading consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of 25 February 2011 significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
Notes: a T he maintenance and integrity of the Avis Europe plc website is the responsibility of Opinion on Financial Statements the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes In our opinion the Parent Company Financial Statements: that may have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at presented on the website.
31 December 2010: b L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
