com Annual Report 2010 81 Financial statements Significant Accounting Policies Applicable to the Parent Company Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 Basis of preparation Creditors The Companys functional currency is sterling, and the Balance Sheet, Cash Creditors are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at Flow Statement and related notes are presented in sterling.
amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The Parent Company Financial Statements set out on pages 79 to 83 have Deferred taxation been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified as described Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing below by the recognition in the Profit and Loss Account of the fair value of differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting share-based payments, and in accordance with applicable UK accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except standards and the Companies Act 2006.
A summary of the principal as otherwise required by FRS19, Deferred tax.
A deferred tax asset is only accounting policies is set out below, which are consistent with those followed recognised when there are expected to be suitable future taxable profits within in the preparation of the Companys Financial Statements for the year ended the tax group against which to reverse the underlying timing differences.
Foreign currency Fixed asset investments Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for any impairment ruling at the year end.
Transactions during the year are recorded at rates of where the recoverable amount is less than cost.
Fixed asset investments are exchange in effect when the transaction occurs.
initially stated at cost, being their purchase cost together with any incidental expenses of acquisitions.
The carrying values of fixed asset investments are Share-based payments reviewed at each year end and if events or changes in circumstances indicate The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference to the fair the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Any impairment of fixed asset value at the date at which they are granted.
This cost is recognised in the investments is charged to the Profit and Loss Account in the year in which Income Statement over the period from grant to vesting date, being the date on it arises.
which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award, with a corresponding increase in equity.
The cumulative expense recognised at each Debtors reporting date, reflects the extent to which the period to vesting has expired and Debtors are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at the Directors best estimate of the number of options that will ultimately vest.
amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade debtors is established when The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
amounts due according to the original terms of the debt.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the Financial guarantees present value of estimated future cash flows.
The carrying amount is reduced Financial guarantees, other than those previously asserted by the entity to be through the use of an allowance account, and the amount is recognised in the insurance contracts, are initially recognised at their fair value and subsequently Profit and Loss Account.
When a trade debt is uncollectible, it is written off measured at the higher of: a the unamortised balance of the related fees against the allowance account for trade debtors.
Subsequent recoveries of received and deferred: and b the expenditure required to settle the amounts previously written off are credited in the Profit and Loss Account.
commitment at the balance sheet date.
