Stock code: VCT Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 73 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the eighteenth Annual General Meeting Special Business AGM of Victrex plc the Company will be held at 11am on To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an 8 February 2011, at the Andaz Hotel, Liverpool Street, London, ordinary resolution: EC2M 7QN, to transact the following business: 12.
That the Board be and hereby is authorised to allot shares in Ordinary Business the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any 1.
To approve the Report on Directors Remuneration for the year security into shares in the Company: ended 30 September 2010. a up to a nominal amount of 278,714: and 2.
To receive the Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the b up to a nominal amount of 278,714 in connection with an year ended 30 September 2010, together with the reports of the offer by way of a rights issue: Directors and the auditor.
i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and 3.
To approve the payment of a final dividend of 18.6p per share on ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the the Companys ordinary shares of 1p in respect of the year ended rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise 30 September 2010. considers necessary, 4.
To approve the payment of a special dividend of 50.0p per share and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions on the Companys ordinary shares of 1p.
and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, 5.
To re-elect Mr P E Bream who, having been appointed as a record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under Director after the last AGM of the Company, retires and offers the laws of, any territory or any other matter.
Such authorities to apply until the end of next years AGM or, if 6.
To re-elect Ms A M Frew, who offers herself for re-election.
earlier, until the close of business on 8 May 2012 but, in each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into 7.
To re-elect Mr G F B Kerr, who retires and offers himself agreements during the relevant period which would, or might, for re-election.
require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares to be granted after the authority ends and 8.
To re-elect Mr P J M fide Smedt, who retires and offers himself the Board may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or for re-election.
convert securities into shares under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not ended.
To re-elect Mr L C Pentz, who retires and offers himself for re-election.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as special resolutions: 10.
To re-elect Mr D R Hummel, who retires and offers himself for re-election.
That, conditional upon resolution 12 being passed, the Board be and hereby is given power to allot equity securities as defined 11.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company and to in the Companies Act 2006 for cash under the authority given authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
by that resolution and or where the allotment is treated as an allotment of equity securities under section 560 2 b of the Companies Act 2006, free of the restriction in section 561 1 of the Companies Act 2006, such power to be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities but in the case of the authority granted under paragraph b of resolution 12, by way of a rights issue only : 18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Shareholder Information 74 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
com Notice of Annual General Meeting continued i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may Such power to apply until the end of next years AGM or, if be practicable to their existing holdings: and earlier, until the close of business on 8 May 2012 but so that ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by the Company may enter into a new contract under which a the rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise purchase of Ordinary Shares may be completed or executed considers necessary, wholly or partly after the authority ends and the Company may and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions purchase Ordinary Shares in pursuance of such contract as if the and make any arrangements which it considers necessary authority had not ended.
or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical 15.
That a general meeting of the Company, other than an problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other annual general meeting, may be called on not less than matter: and 14 clear days notice.
b in the case of the authority granted under paragraph a of resolution 12 and or in the case of any transfer of treasury shares which is treated as an allotment of equity securities By order of the Board under section 560 3 of the Companies Act 2006, to the allotment otherwise than under paragraph a above of equity securities up to a nominal amount of 41,807.
Such power to apply until the end of next years AGM or, if G M Hulme earlier, until the close of business on 8 May 2012 but during Company Secretary this period the Company may make offers, and enter into 6 December 2010 agreements, which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after the power ends and the Board may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not ended.
That the Company be and is hereby authorised generally and unconditionally to make one or more market purchases as defined in Section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of its ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares, such power to be limited: a to a maximum number of 8,361,408 ordinary shares: b by the condition that the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for an Ordinary Share contracted to be purchased on any day shall be the higher of: i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the closing middle market quotation for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange at the time the purchase is carried out: and c by the condition that the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 1p exclusive of expenses.
18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Stock code: VCT Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 75 Notes 1.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of 7.
As at 3 December 2010 being the last business day prior to their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the publication of this notice the Companys issued share the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy capital consists of 83,614,084 Ordinary Shares, carrying one vote in relation to the AGM provided that each proxy is appointed each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares 3 December 2010 are 83,614,084.
There are no shares in held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of treasury.
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this Annual 8.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through Report.
the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
To be valid, any proxy form or other instrument appointing a Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those proxy must be lodged with the Companys Registrars, Equiniti, CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should not less than 48 hours before the start of the AGM or any refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will adjournment thereof.
be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or 9.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraph 9 below CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a will not prevent a shareholder attending the AGM and voting in CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in person if he she wishes to do so.
accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, 4.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person as described in the CREST Manual available via www.
nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to com crest.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent Equiniti else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person ID RA19 by 11am on 6 February 2010.
For this purpose, the has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by 5.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above does appointed through CREST should be communicated to the not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these appointee through other means.
paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers, should note that Euroclear UK & 6.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and may cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Members of the Company at 6pm on 6 February 2010 or, in Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member the event of any adjournment, 48 hours before the time of the concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Shareholder Information 76 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction a to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting: and or b to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting 12.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right properly included in the business.
to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business unless: a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be the AGM: or ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any b any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise : ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which b it is defamatory of any person: or annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with c it is frivolous or vexatious.
section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with matter to be included in the business, must be authorised by the sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company Company is required to place a statement on a website under not later than 28 December 2010, being the date six clear weeks section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting it makes the statement available on the website.
The business out the grounds for the request.
which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the 16.
Representatives of shareholders that are corporations will have to Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
produce evidence of their proper appointment when attending the general meeting.
Please contact our Registrar if you need any 13.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask further guidance on this.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting 17.
You may not use any electronic address provided in either this but no such answer need be given if: Notice of General Meeting or any related documents including the Proxy Form to communicate with the Company for any a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the purpose other than those expressly stated.
meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form 18.
Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection of an answer to a question: or at the Registered Office of the Company from the date of this c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good notice until the time of the AGM and at the meeting location order of the meeting that the question be answered.
from 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends: 14.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by the executive Directors service contracts: section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors: 15.
Under section 338 and section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, deeds of indemnity in favour of the Directors: and members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company: a copy of the existing Memorandum and Articles of Association.
18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Stock code: VCT Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 77 Explanatory Notes Ordinary Business Specifically, Patrick fide Smedt brings a breadth of international and Resolution 1 Approval of the Report on Directors industrial experience, with knowledge of market and geographical Remuneration development.
He chairs the Remuneration Committee of the Board, This resolution is proposed to approve the Report on Directors as well as sitting on the Audit and Nominations Committees.
Remuneration as set out on pages 28 to 33.
Lawrence Pentz also brings a breadth of international and Resolution 2 Annual Report and Accounts industrial experience, with knowledge of market and geographical The Directors are under a duty in relation to each financial year to development.
He sits on the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration lay the Accounts and Reports of the Directors and auditor before the Committees and with effect from 1 October 2010 chairs the Risk Company in general meeting, giving shareholders the opportunity to Management Committee.
ask questions on the contents.
Giles Kerr brings a range of recent and relevant financial experience Resolution 3 Declaration of final dividend to his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is a Chartered A final dividend of 18.6p per ordinary share payable on 25 February Accountant and the Senior Independent Director.
2011 has been recommended by the Directors for the year ended 30 September 2010.
In accordance with the requirements of HM Biographical details of all Directors seeking re-election are set out on Revenue & Customs, all dividends are declared and paid net of page 21. income tax at the standard rate.
Resolution 11 Reappointment of auditor auditors Resolution 4 Declaration of special dividend remuneration A special dividend of 50.0p per ordinary share payable on 25 February This resolution proposes the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as 2011 has been recommended by the Directors.
In accordance with auditor of the Company and authorises the Directors to determine the requirements of HM Revenue & Customs, all dividends are their remuneration.
declared and paid net of income tax at the standard rate.
Special Business Resolutions 5 to 10 Re-election of Directors Resolution 12 Authority to allot shares In accordance with the Articles of Association Mr P E Bream who The authority of shareholders is required to enable Directors to allot was appointed as a Director after the last Annual General Meeting shares.
Accordingly, in line with the Companys usual procedure, which of the Company is required to retire as a Director.
He will, however, is also standard practice amongst other public companies, this resolution seek re-election by the shareholders.
In addition, Ms A M Frew seeks authority for the Directors to issue shares until the conclusion of offers herself for re-election as a Director and will seek re-election next years AGM of the Company or 8 May 2012, if sooner.
by the shareholders in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company.
Mr D R Hummel and the other three non-executive In accordance with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, Directors all offer themselves for re-election pursuant of the new UK the proposed authority will allow the Directors to allot ordinary shares Corporate Governance Code which, although not effective until the up to an amount equal to less than one third of the existing share year ending 30 September 2011, advocates annual re-election.
capital, plus in the case of a rights issue only a further amount up to an additional one third of the Companys existing issued share capital.
The Board considers that Anita Frew has added breadth and perspective to the Boards deliberations.
Specifically, she has been The Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority.
a non-executive Director since August 2000 and Chairman of the Board of Victrex plc since October 2008 and has made a significant Resolution 13 Permission to allot a limited number of shares contribution to the Group, bringing a wide range of experience, other than to existing shareholders particularly with regard to international marketing, corporate When shares are issued for cash, they normally have to be development and the City.
offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their current shareholding.
This resolution will enable the Directors to allot The Board considers that non-executive Directors Giles Kerr, Patrick shares for cash up to a nominal amount of 41,807, representing fide Smedt and Larry Pentz have added breadth, perspective and value approximately 5% of the current issued ordinary share capital, to the Boards deliberations and recommends their re-election.
other than to existing shareholders in order to take advantage of 18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Shareholder Information 78 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
com Explanatory Notes continued opportunities as and when they arise.
The Directors have no current Resolution 15 Authority to hold general meetings other intention of exercising this authority and confirm their intention that than annual general meetings on 14 clear days notice not more than 7.5% of the issued ordinary share capital will be This Resolution is required to reflect the changes made to the allotted on a non pre-emptive basis in any rolling three year period, in Companies Act 2006 by the Companies Shareholders Rights compliance with the guidelines issued by investors bodies.
Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
The Shareholders Rights Regulations increased the notice period for The authority will lapse at the earlier of the next AGM of the general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders Company or 8 May 2012, if sooner.
approve a shorter period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
Prior to the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Resolution 14 Authority to purchase own shares Regulations the Company was able to call general meetings other In certain circumstances, it might be advantageous to the Company than an annual general meeting on 14 clear days notice and to purchase its own shares.
Resolution 14 specifies the maximum would like to maintain this ability.
In order to be able to do so the number of shares which may be acquired less than 10% of the Companys shareholders must approve the calling of such meetings Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this Notice on 14 clear days notice.
The and the maximum and minimum prices at which shares may be Company undertakes to meet the requirements for electronic voting bought.
under the Shareholders Rights Regulations before calling a general meeting on 14 clear days notice.
If given, the approval will be The Directors intend to use the authority only if, in the light of market effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a conditions prevailing at the time, they believe that the effect of similar resolution will be proposed.
such purchase will be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders generally.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate Recommendation gearing levels and the overall position of the Company will be taken The Directors consider that all the proposed resolutions set out in this into account in reaching such a decision.
Any shares purchased in Notice of AGM are in the best interests of the Company and of its this way will either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that you will be reduced accordingly, or be held as treasury shares.
Shares held vote in favour of them, as the Directors intend to do in respect of as treasury shares can in the future be cancelled, resold or used to their own beneficial holdings of shares in the Company.
provide shares for employee share schemes.
As at 3 December 2010, options over a total of 1,528,995 Ordinary Shares were outstanding and not exercised.
That number of Ordinary Shares represents 1.83% of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital at 3 December 20010.
It would represent 2.03% of the issued Ordinary Share capital if the authority to buy the Companys own shares had been used in full at that date.
The authority will lapse at the earlier of the next AGM of the Company or 8 May 2012, if sooner.
18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Stock code: VCT Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 79 Shareholder Notes 18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Shareholder Information 80 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
