Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
com Stock code: VCT Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 81 Group at a Glance Financial Calendar and Advisors Annual General Meeting 8 February 2011 Ex dividend date 9 February 2011 Record date 11 February 2011 Payment of final and special dividend 25 February 2011 Announcement of 2011 half-yearly results May 2011 Victrex Polymer Solutions Division Invibio Biomaterial Solutions Division Payment of interim dividend July 2011 Invibio Biomaterial Solutions Invibio is an established, worldwide leader in biomaterial Victrex Polymer Solutions VPS is focused on developing our major industrial markets.
We work with The date by which shareholders must be recorded on the share solutions for the surgical and medical device markets.
Invibio is committed to customers and end users to provide innovative and technical solutions that help meet their most difficult register to receive the dividend.
delivering dependable, specialised and comprehensive resources to help medical device design challenges and leverage the benefits from the unique combination of properties and forms that our manufacturers realise accelerated market success across multiple targeted markets.
Auditor Bankers Our Brands Our Brands KPMG Audit Plc HSBC Bank plc St James Square 4 Hardman Square Manchester Spinningfields M2 6DS Manchester M3 3EB Broker and Financial Advisor J P Morgan Cazenove Barclays Bank PLC 20 Moorgate 3 Hardman Street London Manchester Major Markets Our Markets EC2V 6DR M2 3AX Spine Industrial Lawyers Registrars Slaughter and May Equiniti Engineers are continuing to turn to VICTREX PEEK polymer as the demands for product Spinal Fusion One Bunhill Row Aspect House performance increase across the oil and gas, chemical processing, textile machinery, food Invibios biomaterials continue to be extensively used to treat spinal disorders.
London Spencer Road processing and alternative energy sectors.
Within spinal fusion, the combination of numerous clinical studies and Invibios focus EC1Y 8YY Lancing has increased our share in both lumbar and cervical fusion.
BN99 6ZX Image courtesy of Creaspine Addleshaw Goddard LLP 100 Barbirolli Square Spinal Non-fusion Manchester During 2010, Invibio continued to see strong usage in a diverse range of M2 3AB demanding applications in the spinal non-fusion market, aimed at maintaining Transport mobility in the spine.
VICTREX PEEK polymer delivers an excellent combination of properties that make it Image courtesy of Pioneer Surgical Technology, Inc. Victrex plc the material of choice in a wide range of automotive, aerospace and mass transport Registered in England applications.
Number 2793780 Developing Markets Registered Office: Arthroscopy Victrex Technology Centre Hillhouse International Strength, imaging capability and ease of revision has helped drive Invibios Thornton Cleveleys considerable growth in shoulder arthroscopic repair and, more recently, increased Lancashire Image courtesy of use in knee arthroscopy treatments aimed at soft tissue and ligament repair.
Electronics ConMed Linvatec FY5 4QD Trends in the consumer electronics and semiconductor fabrication sectors provide a wide United Kingdom range of opportunities to take advantage of the unique combination of properties offered Target Markets by VICTREX PEEK polymer.
Tel: 44 0 1253 897700 As device manufacturers seek solutions that reduce surgical complications and operating Fax: 44 0 1253 897701 time, we continue to identify further areas where our materials can provide improvements Image courtesy in the clinical success rates of a wide range of emerging medical device applications.
of Maastricht Instruments For more info log on to www.
com For more info on VPS go to page 10 For more info on Invibio go to page 14 18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Shareholder Information Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2010 Victrex plc With over 30 years experience, Victrex is a global manufacturer of Annual Report and Accounts innovative, high performance thermoplastic polymers.
We work with for the year ended 30 September 2010 customers and end users to deliver technology driven solutions to the challenges and opportunities they face.
Our Victrex Polymer Solutions division focuses on our transport, industrial and electronics markets and our Invibio Biomaterial Solutions division focuses on providing specialist solutions for medical device manufacturers.
Our Group and divisional headquarters are based in the United Kingdom along with our manufacturing, research and customer support facilities.
We have invested in an integrated supply chain providing flexibility, control over quality and capacity and reassurance to our customers over security of supply.
This is complemented by a growing network of sales, distribution and technical centres serving more than 30 countries worldwide.
Group strategy Victrex plcs corporate strategic intent is to achieve sustainable earnings growth for our shareholders by: Focusing, through the Victrex Polymer Solutions VPS and Invibio Biomaterial Solutions Invibio divisional strategies, on maintaining the Groups leadership in developing and growing the market for polyketone based products: For more info on the VPS For more info on the Invibio divisional strategy go to page 10 divisional strategy go to page 14 Maintaining the highest appropriate quality, Victrex plc efficiency, safety, health and environmental For more info on health and safety Victrex Technology Centre, go to page 18 Hillhouse International, standards throughout the supply chain: Thornton Cleveleys, Lancashire, FY5 4QD, United Kingdom Providing a fulfilling and appropriately challenging environment for our employees: and Tel: 44 0 1253 897700 Fax: 44 0 1253 897701 THe QUeenS AWARDS FOR enTeRPRISe: InTeRnATIOnAL TRADe Seeking out and implementing, where appropriate, added value business opportunities.
