Directors remuneration continued Other considerations Dilution All awards are made under plans that incorporate dilution limits as set out in the Service contracts of executive directors guidelines for share incentive schemes published by the Association of British The Remuneration Committee has determined that after an initial term of up to two Insurers.
The current estimated dilution from subsisting awards, including executive years duration executive directors contracts should thereafter have rolling terms and all-employee share awards, is approximately 3.1% of the Companys share capital and be terminable on no more than one years notice.
All current executive directors contracts have an indefinite term to normal retirement date and one year notice periods.
No payments should normally be Funding payable on termination other than the salary due for the notice period and such A mixture of newly issued shares, treasury shares and shares purchased in the market entitlements under incentive plans and benefits that are consistent with the terms by the employee benefit trust is used to satisfy share-based awards.
This policy is of such plans.
Date of Other matters service agreement Notice period The share incentive plan and the co-investment into the GLTI plan include restrictions Vittorio Colao 27 May 2008 12 months on the transfer of shares while the shares are subject to the plan.
Where, under an Andy Halford 20 May 2005 12 months employee share plan operated by the Company, participants are the beneficial Michel Combes 1 June 2009 12 months owners of the shares but not the registered owner, the voting rights are normally Stephen Pusey 1 June 2009 12 months exercised by the registered owner at the discretion of the participant.
Fees retained for external non-executive directorships All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Executive directors may hold positions in other companies as non-executive Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a directors.
In the 2010 financial year Michel Combes was the only executive director change of control subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at with such a position held at AS System SA.
He retained fees of 33,120 in relation that time.
to this position over the full financial year.
Fees were retained in accordance with Group policy.
TSR performance The following chart shows the performance of the Company relative to the Cascade to senior management FTSE100 index and FTSE Global Telecoms index.
We were a constituent of both The principles of the policy are cascaded, where appropriate, to the other members throughout the 2010 financial year.
of the Executive Committee as set out below.
Five year historical TSR performance growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five years.
FTSE 100 and FTSE Global Telecoms comparison based Cascade of policy to Executive Committee 2010 financial year on spot values Total remuneration and base salary Methodology consistent with the executive directors.
175 Annual bonus 150 The annual bonus is based on the same measures.
However in some 125 circumstances these are measured within a region or business area rather than across the whole Group.
100 Long-term incentive 75 The long-term incentive is consistent with the executive directors including the opportunity to invest in the GLTI to receive matching awards.
In addition, March 2005 March 2006 March 2007 March 2008 March 2009 March 2010 Executive Committee members have a share ownership requirement of two Key: FTSE 100 Vodafone Group FTSE Global Telecoms times base salary.
Notes: 1 Graph provided by Towers Watson and calculated according to a methodology that is compliant with the requirements of The Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts & All-employee share plans Reports Regulation 2008.
The executive directors are also eligible to participate in the all-employee plans.
2 Data sources: FTSE and Datastream.
3 Performance of the Company shown by the graph is not indicative of vesting levels under the Companys various incentive plans.
Summary of plans Global AllShare Plan A significant number of employees were granted an award of 340 shares AllShares each on 1 July 2009.
These awards vest after two years.
In March 2010 the Remuneration Committee stated there would be no further grants.
Sharesave The Vodafone Group 2008 Sharesave Plan is an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved scheme open to all permanently employed UK staff.
Options under the plan are granted at up to a 20% discount to market value.
Executive directors participation is included in the option table on page 65.
Share Incentive Plan The Vodafone Share Incentive Plan is an HMRC approved plan open to all staff permanently employed by a Vodafone Company in the UK.
Participants may contribute up to a maximum of 125 per month which the trustee of the plan uses to buy shares on their behalf.
An equivalent number of shares are purchased with contributions from the employing company.
UK based executive directors are eligible to participate.
62 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010
