Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation An amendment to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements was issued in January 2008 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS as 2009.
The amendment requires that when a transaction occurs with non-controlling issued by the IASB.
The consolidated financial statements are also prepared in interests in Group entities that do not result in a change in control, the difference accordance with IFRS adopted by the EU, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of between the consideration paid or received and the recorded non-controlling the EU IAS Regulations.
interest should be recognised in equity.
In cases where control is lost, any retained interest should be remeasured to fair value with the difference between fair value and The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management the previous carrying value being recognised immediately in the income statement.
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and The Group has historically entered into transactions that would have been within the liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial scope of the amendment to this standard and may do so in the future.
statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
For a discussion on the Groups critical accounting estimates see Critical Phase I of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued in November 2009 and is accounting estimates on pages 71 and 72.
Actual results could differ from those effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing introduces changes to the classification and measurement of financial assets.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the Group is currently assessing the impact of the standard on its results, financial estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the position and cash flows.
This standard has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The Group has not adopted the following pronouncements, which have been issued Amounts in the consolidated financial statements are stated in pounds sterling.
The Group does not currently believe the adoption of these pronouncements will have a material impact on the consolidated results, financial Vodafone Plc is registered in England No.
1833679. position or cash flows of the Group.
These pronouncements have been endorsed for use in the EU, unless otherwise stated.
 Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Accounting convention Exposures Qualifying for Hedge Accounting, effective for annual periods The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis except beginning on or after 1 July 2009. for certain financial and equity instruments that have been measured at fair value.
Embedded derivatives: Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 30 June 2009.
New accounting pronouncements adopted Improvements to IFRSs issued in April 2009 are effective over a range of dates, IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes with the earliest being for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
The Group adopted IFRIC 13 on 1 April 2009.
The interpretation addresses how IFRS 1, Additional Exemptions for First-time Adopters, effective for periods companies that grant their customers loyalty award credits when buying goods and beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
This standard has not yet been endorsed for services should account for their obligations to provide free or discounted goods and use in the EU.
It requires that consideration received be allocated between the award IFRS for Small and Medium-Sized Entities, issued July 2009, effective credits and the other components of the sale.
The adoption of this interpretation did immediately.
not result in a material impact on the Groups results or financial position.
IFRS 2, Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions, effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs Amendment to IAS 32, Classification of Rights Issues, effective for annual The Group adopted IAS 23 Revised on 1 April 2009.
This standard requires the periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010. capitalisation of borrowing costs to the extent they are directly attributable to the Amendment to IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures State-controlled Entities and acquisition, production or construction of a qualifying asset.
The option of immediate the Definition of a Related Party, effective for annual periods beginning on or after recognition of those borrowing costs as an expense, previously used by the Group, 1 January 2011.
This amendment has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
The adoption of this standard did not result in a material impact Amendment to IFRIC 14, Prepayments on a Minimum Funding Requirement, on the Groups results or financial position.
effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
This interpretation has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, effective for annual periods The Group adopted IAS 1 Revised on 1 April 2009.
A separate consolidated beginning on or after 1 July 2009. statement of changes in equity is now included as part of the primary financial IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, effective statements.
The Group changed the naming of the primary financial statements and annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010 with early adoption permitted.
adopted certain new terminology set out in the revised standard.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure Basis of consolidation The Group adopted an amendment to IFRS 7 on 1 April 2009.
The standard requires The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the enhanced disclosure regarding fair value measurements and liquidity risk.
The Company and entities controlled, both unilaterally and jointly, by the Company.
adoption of this standard did not impact the Groups results or financial position.
Accounting for subsidiaries New accounting pronouncements not yet adopted A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations was issued in January 2008 and will apply as to obtain benefits from its activities.
to business combinations occurring on or after 1 April 2010.
The revised standard introduces a number of changes in the accounting for business combinations that The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the will impact the amount of goodwill recognised, the reported results in the period that income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of a business combination occurs and future reported results.
This standard is likely disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial to have a significant impact on the Groups accounting for business combinations statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used post adoption.
78 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 Financials All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in the consolidated on consolidation.
financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the consolidated statement of Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified financial position at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share separately from the Groups equity therein.
Non-controlling interests consist of the of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of the investment.
amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate are not non-controlling shareholders share of changes in equity since the date of the recognised.
Additional losses are provided for, and a liability is recognised, only to the combination.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling shareholders in excess of the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made non-controlling shareholders share of changes in equity are allocated against the payments on behalf of the associate.
interests of the Group except to the extent that the non-controlling shareholders have a binding obligation and are able to make an additional investment to cover Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the the losses.
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost The licences of the Groups associate in the US, Verizon Wireless, are indefinite lived of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of assets as they are subject to perfunctory renewal.
Accordingly, they are not subject exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment, or when indicators exist that issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly the carrying value is not recoverable.
attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Intangible assets Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at Identifiable intangible assets are recognised when the Group controls the asset, it is cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups probable that future economic benefits attributed to the asset will flow to the Group interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent and the cost of the asset can be reliably measured.
Goodwill The interest of non-controlling shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an entity represents the excess of the cost of the non-controlling shareholders proportion of the net fair value of the assets, acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
liabilities and contingent liabilities of the entity recognised at the date of acquisition.
Where the Group increases its interest in an entity such that control is achieved, Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured previously held identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is held in the currency entity are revalued to their fair value at the date of acquisition, being the date at which of the acquired entity and revalued to the closing rate at each end of reporting the Group achieves control of the acquiree.
The movement in fair value is taken to period date.
Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment.
Acquisition of interests from non-controlling Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly in the shareholders income statement.
Acquisitions of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are accounted for as transactions between shareholders.
There is no remeasurement to fair value of net On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of assets acquired that were previously attributable to non-controlling shareholders.
goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss recognised in the income statement on disposal.
Interests in joint ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties Goodwill arising before the date of transition to IFRS, on 1 April 2004, has been undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control: that is, when the retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being tested for impairment strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activities require the at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
The Group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using proportionate Finite lived intangible assets consolidation.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenses and cash Intangible assets with finite lives are stated at acquisition or development cost, less flows of jointly controlled entities are combined with the equivalent items in the accumulated amortisation.
The amortisation period and method is reviewed at least results on a line-by-line basis.
Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset is accounted for by changing the Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of the Groups interest in a jointly controlled amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in entity is accounted for in accordance with the Groups accounting policy for goodwill accounting estimates.
The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary.
is recognised in profit or loss in the expense category consistent with the function of the intangible asset.
Investments in associates Licence and spectrum fees An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is Amortisation periods for licence and spectrum fees are determined primarily by neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Significant influence is the reference to the unexpired licence period, the conditions for licence renewal and power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee whether licences are dependent on specific technologies.
Amortisation is charged but is not control or joint control over those policies.
to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives from the commencement of service of the network.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
 Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
Computer software Computer software comprises computer software purchased from third parties as The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant and well as the cost of internally developed software.
Computer software licences are equipment is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and the capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and are probable of producing future economic benefits are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include Impairment of assets software development employee costs and directly attributable overheads.
Goodwill Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment annually or Software integral to a related item of hardware equipment is accounted for as whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognised as which there are separately identifiable cash flows, known as cash-generating units.
an expense when they are incurred.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying Internally developed software is recognised only if all of the following conditions amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit are met: pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Impairment losses recognised for goodwill are not reversed in a subsequent period.
an asset is created that can be separately identified: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of estimated useful lives from the date the software is available for use.
future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Other intangible assets The Group prepares and approves formal five year management plans for its Other intangible assets including brands and customer bases, are recorded at fair operations, which are used in the value in use calculations.
In certain developing value at the date of acquisition.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on markets the fifth year of the management plan is not indicative of the long-term a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from the date future performance as operations may not have reached maturity.
For these they are available for use.
operations, the Group extends the plan data for an additional five year period.
Estimated useful lives Property, plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets The estimated useful lives of finite lived intangible assets are as follows: At each end of reporting period date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets to determine whether Licence and spectrum fees 3 25 years there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such Computer software 3 5 years indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to Brands 1 10 years determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where it is not possible to Customer bases 2 7 years estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Property, plant and equipment If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less Land and buildings held for use are stated in the statement of financial position at than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit their cost, less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately accumulated impairment losses.
Equipment, fixtures and fittings are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses the carrying amount of the asset any accumulated impairment losses.
or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, not to exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes directly attributable incremental Revenue costs incurred in their acquisition and installation.
Revenue is recognised to the extent the Group has delivered goods or rendered services under an agreement, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than land and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to properties under construction, using the straight-line method, over their estimated the Group.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, useful lives, as follows: exclusive of sales taxes and discounts.
Freehold buildings 25 50 years The Group principally obtains revenue from providing the following Leasehold premises the term of the lease telecommunication services: access charges, airtime usage, messaging, interconnect fees, data services and information provision, connection fees and equipment sales.
Equipment, fixtures and fittings: Products and services may be sold separately or in bundled packages.
Network infrastructure 3 25 years Revenue for access charges, airtime usage and messaging by contract customers is Other 3 10 years recognised as revenue as services are performed, with unbilled revenue resulting from services already provided accrued at the end of each period and unearned Depreciation is not provided on freehold land.
revenue from services to be provided in future periods deferred.
Revenue from the sale of prepaid credit is deferred until such time as the customer uses the airtime, or the credit expires.
80 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 Financials Revenue from interconnect fees is recognised at the time the services are performed.
Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Revenue from data services and information provision is recognised when the Group parent Companys functional and presentation currency.
Each entity in the Group has performed the related service and, depending on the nature of the service, is determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial recognised either at the gross amount billed to the customer or the amount statements of each entity are measured using that functional currency.
receivable by the Group as commission for facilitating the service.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency Customer connection revenue is recognised together with the related equipment rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities revenue to the extent that the aggregate equipment and connection revenue does denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into the respective functional not exceed the fair value of the equipment delivered to the customer.
Any customer currency of the entity at the rates prevailing on the end of reporting period date.
connection revenue not recognised together with related equipment revenue is Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies deferred and recognised over the period in which services are expected to be are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the initial transaction dates.
Non-monetary provided to the customer.
items measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Revenue for device sales is recognised when the device is delivered to the end Changes in the fair value of monetary securities denominated in foreign currency customer and the sale is considered complete.
For device sales made to classified as available-for-sale are analysed between translation differences and intermediaries, revenue is recognised if the significant risks associated with the other changes in the carrying amount of the security.
Translation differences are device are transferred to the intermediary and the intermediary has no general right recognised in the income statement and other changes in carrying amount are of return.
If the significant risks are not transferred, revenue recognition is deferred recognised in equity.
until sale of the device to an end customer by the intermediary or the expiry of the right of return.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets, such as investments in equity securities, classified as available-for-sale are reported as part of the fair value In revenue arrangements including more than one deliverable, the arrangements are gain or loss and are included in equity.
divided into separate units of accounting.
Deliverables are considered separate units of accounting if the following two conditions are met: 1 the deliverable has value to For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and the customer on a stand-alone basis and 2 there is evidence of the fair value of the liabilities of entities with a functional currency other than sterling are expressed in item.
The arrangement consideration is allocated to each separate unit of accounting sterling using exchange rates prevailing on the end of reporting period date.
Income based on its relative fair value.
and expense items and cash flows are translated at the average exchange rates for the period and exchange differences arising are recognised directly in equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, the cumulative amount previously recognised in equity Commissions relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in profit or loss.
Intermediaries are given cash incentives by the Group to connect new customers and upgrade existing customers.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated accordingly.
For intermediaries who do not purchase products and services from the Group, such cash incentives are accounted for as an expense.
Such cash incentives to other In respect of all foreign operations, any exchange differences that have arisen before intermediaries are also accounted for as an expense if: 1 April 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are deemed to be nil and will be excluded from the determination of any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
the Group receives an identifiable benefit in exchange for the cash incentive that is separable from sales transactions to that intermediary: and The net foreign exchange gain recognised in the consolidated income statement is the Group can reliably estimate the fair value of that benefit.
Cash incentives that do not meet these criteria are recognised as a reduction of the related device revenue.
Research expenditure Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Inventory Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on the basis of weighted average costs and comprises direct materials and, where  applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in For defined benefit retirement plans, the difference between the fair value of the plan bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
assets and the present value of the plan liabilities is recognised as an asset or liability on the statement of financial position.
Scheme liabilities are assessed using the projected unit funding method and applying the principal actuarial assumptions at Leasing the end of reporting period date.
Assets are valued at market value.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to the lessee.
All other Actuarial gains and losses are taken to the statement of comprehensive income leases are classified as operating leases.
For this purpose, actuarial gains and losses comprise both the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments arising because Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum actually occurred.
lease payments as determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the statement of financial position as a finance Other movements in the net surplus or deficit are recognised in the income lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges statement, including the current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest any curtailment or settlements.
The interest cost less the expected return on assets on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in the is also charged to the income statement.
The amount charged to the income income statement.
statement in respect of these plans is included within operating costs or in the Groups share of the results of equity accounted operations as appropriate.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable The Groups contributions to defined contribution pension plans are charged to the as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis income statement as they fall due.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 81 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
 Other investments classified as held for trading and available-for-sale are stated at fair value.
Where securities are held for trading purposes, gains and losses arising Cumulative actuarial gains and losses at 1 April 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, from changes in fair value are included in net profit or loss for the period.
For availablehave been recognised in the statement of financial position.
for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at Taxation which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity, determined Income tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
using the weighted average cost method, is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
Current tax payable or recoverable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because some items of Other investments classified as loans and receivables are stated at amortised cost income or expense are taxable or deductible in different years or may never be using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using UK and foreign tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Cash and cash equivalents end of reporting period date.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and call deposits, and other shortterm highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable in the future arising from and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of Trade payables taxable profit.
It is accounted for using the statement of financial position liability Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable Financial liabilities and equity instruments that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group are classified can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the difference arises from the initial recognition other than in a business combination definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
An equity instrument is of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised to the extent they arise deducting all of its liabilities and includes no obligation to deliver cash or other from the initial recognition of goodwill.
The accounting policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity instruments are set out below.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except Capital market and bank borrowings where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair value which is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
equal to cost at inception, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, except where they are identified as a hedged The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each end of reporting item in a fair value hedge.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction period date and adjusted to reflect changes in probability that sufficient taxable costs and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised over the term of profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period Equity instruments when the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates that have been Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net enacted or substantively enacted by the end of reporting period date.
Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they either relate to income The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or on rates and interest rates.
different taxable entities which intend to settle the current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives Tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
Changes in values of all charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also recognised directly derivatives of a financing nature are included within investment income and financing in equity.
costs in the income statement.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities, in respect of financial instruments, are Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the contract recognised on the Groups statement of financial position when the Group becomes date and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
The Group a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
designates certain derivatives as either: Trade receivables hedges of the change of fair value of recognised assets and liabilities fair value Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as hedges : or reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Estimated hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
irrecoverable amounts are based on the ageing of the receivable balances and historical experience.
Individual trade receivables are written off when management Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, deems them not to be collectible.
terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, or the Company chooses to end the hedging relationship.
Other investments Other investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
82 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 Financials Fair value hedges represents the period of time that options are expected to be outstanding.
Expected The Groups policy is to use derivative instruments primarily interest rate swaps to volatilities are based on implied volatilities as determined by a simple average of no convert a proportion of its fixed rate debt to floating rates in order to hedge the less than three international banks, excluding the highest and lowest numbers.
The interest rate risk arising, principally, from capital market borrowings.
The Group risk-free rates for periods within the contractual life of the option are based on the UK designates these as fair value hedges of interest rate risk with changes in fair value of gilt yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
the hedging instrument recognised in the income statement for the period together with the changes in the fair value of the hedged item due to the hedged risk, to the Some share awards have an attached market condition, based on TSR, which is taken extent the hedge is effective.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the into account when calculating the fair value of the share awards.
The valuation for the income statement.
TSR is based on Vodafones ranking within the same group of companies, where possible, over the past five years.
The volatility of the ranking over a three year period Net investment hedges is used to determine the probable weighted percentage number of shares that could Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign be expected to vest and hence affect fair value.
operations are recognised directly in equity.
Gains and losses on those hedging instruments which include bonds, commercial paper and foreign exchange The fair value of awards of non-vested shares is equal to the closing price of the contracts designated as hedges of the net investments in foreign operations are Vodafones shares on the date of grant, adjusted for the present value of future recognised in equity to the extent that the hedging relationship is effective.
These dividend entitlements where appropriate.
amounts are included in exchange differences on translation of foreign operations as stated in the statement of comprehensive income.
Gains and losses relating to hedge ineffectiveness are recognised immediately in the income statement for the period.
Gains and losses accumulated in the translation reserve are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Put option arrangements The potential cash payments related to put options issued by the Group over the equity of subsidiary companies are accounted for as financial liabilities when such options may only be settled other than by exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset for a fixed number of shares in the subsidiary.
The amount that may become payable under the option on exercise is initially recognised at fair value within borrowings with a corresponding charge directly to equity.
The charge to equity is recognised separately as written put options over non-controlling interests, adjacent to non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries.
The Group recognises the cost of writing such put options, determined as the excess of the fair value of the option over any consideration received, as a financing cost.
Such options are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, in order to accrete the liability up to the amount payable under the option at the date at which it first becomes exercisable.
The charge arising is recorded as a financing cost.
In the event that the option expires unexercised, the liability is derecognised with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the end of reporting period date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using a binomial pricing model, being a lattice-based option valuation model, which is calibrated using a Black-Scholes framework.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The Group uses historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination within the valuation model: separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behaviour are considered separately for valuation purposes.
The expected life of options granted is derived from the output of the option valuation model and Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 83
