Governance Monitoring and review activities Committee receives in writing details of relationships between the Company and There are clear processes for monitoring the system of internal control and reporting Deloitte LLP that may have a bearing on their independence and receives any significant control failings or weaknesses together with details of corrective confirmation that they are independent of the Company within the meaning of the action.
These include: securities laws administered by the SEC.
a formal annual confirmation provided by the chief executive and chief financial In addition, the Audit Committee pre-approves the audit fee after a review of both the officer of each Group company certifying the operation of their control systems level of the audit fee against other comparable companies, including those in the and highlighting any weaknesses, the results of which are reviewed by regional telecommunications industry, and the level and nature of non-audit fees, as part of management, the Audit Committee and the Board: its review of the adequacy and objectivity of the audit process.
a review of the quality and timeliness of disclosures undertaken by the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer which includes formal annual meetings In a further measure to ensure auditor independence is not compromised, policies with the operating company or regional chief executives and chief financial provide for the pre-approval by the Audit Committee of permitted non-audit services officers and the Disclosure Committee: by Deloitte LLP.
For certain specific permitted services the Audit Committee has preperiodic examination of business processes on a risk basis including reports on approved that Deloitte LLP can be engaged by management subject to specified fee controls throughout the Group undertaken by the Group internal audit limits for individual engagements and fee limits for each type of specific service department who report directly to the Audit Committee: and permitted.
For all other services, or those permitted services that exceed the specified reports from the external auditors on certain internal controls and relevant fee limits, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, or in his absence another member, can financial reporting matters presented to the Audit Committee and management.
pre-approve services which have not been pre-approved by the Audit Committee.
Any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can In addition to their statutory duties, Deloitte LLP are also employed where, as a result provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of achieving the desired control of their position as auditors, they either must, or are best placed to, perform the work objectives.
Management is required to apply judgement in evaluating the risks we in question.
This is primarily work in relation to matters such as shareholder circulars, face in achieving our objectives, in determining the risks that are considered Group borrowings, regulatory filings and certain business acquisitions and disposals.
acceptable to bear, in assessing the likelihood of the risks concerned materialising, Other work is awarded on the basis of competitive tender.
in identifying our ability to reduce the incidence and impact on the business of risks that do materialise and in ensuring that the costs of operating particular controls are During the year Deloitte LLP and its affiliates charged the Group 9 million 2009: 8 proportionate to the benefit.
million, 2008: 7 million for audit and audit-related services and a further 1 million 2009: 1 million, 2008: 2 million for non-audit assignments.
An analysis of these A Risk Council meets twice a year to evaluate the risks that the business is facing and fees can be found in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
reports back to the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee which in turn report to the Board.
The Risk Council is chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer, US listing requirements facilitated by the Group Audit Director and attended by representatives from the On 29 October 2009 the Company transferred its american depositary shares from three geographic regions, finance, mergers and acquisitions, strategy, technology, the New York stock exchange to the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC NASDAQ.
We are legal, external affairs and human resources.
subject to the rules of NASDAQ as well as US securities laws and the rules of the SEC.
NASDAQ requires US companies listed on the exchange to comply with NASDAQs Review of effectiveness corporate governance rules but foreign private issuers, such as the Company, are The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness of the internal exempt from many of those rules.
However pursuant to NASDAQ Listing Rule 5615 control system, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk we are required to disclose a summary of any material ways in which the corporate management, in accordance with the Combined Code for the period from 1 April governance practices we follow differ from those required by NASDAQ for US 2009 to 18 May 2010, the date of approval of our annual report.
The material differences are as follows: or weaknesses were identified during this review.
However had there been any such failings or weaknesses, the Board confirms that necessary actions would have been Independence taken to remedy them.
The NASDAQ rules require that a majority of the Board be comprised of independent directors and the rules include detailed definitions that US Disclosure controls and procedures companies must use for determining independence.
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rule The Combined Code requires a companys board of directors to assess and make 13a-15 e of the Exchange Act, that are designed to ensure that information required to a determination as to the independence of its directors.
be disclosed in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities While the Board does not explicitly take into consideration NASDAQs detailed and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated definitions, it has carried out an assessment based on the requirements of the and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive and Chief Financial Combined Code and has determined in its judgement that all of the non-executive Officer as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
directors are independent within those requirements.
At 18 May 2010 the Board comprised the Chairman, four executive directors and nine non-executive directors.
The directors, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures and, based on that evaluation, Committees have concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures are effective at the end NASDAQ rules require US companies to have a nominations committee, an audit of the period covered by this document.
committee and a compensation committee, each composed entirely of independent directors, with the nominations committee and audit committee required to have a Going concern written charter that addresses the committees purpose and responsibilities.
The going concern statement required by the Listing Rules and the Combined Code Our Nominations and Governance Committee and Remuneration Committee is set out in the Directors statement of responsibility on page 69. have terms of reference and composition that comply with the Combined Codes requirements.
Auditors The Nominations and Governance Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Following a recommendation by the Audit Committee, and in accordance with Board and its other members are non-executive directors of the Company and the Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution proposing the reappointment Chief Executive.
of Deloitte LLP as our auditors will be put to the shareholders at the 2010 AGM.
We The Remuneration Committee is composed entirely of non-executive directors do not indemnify our external auditors.
whom the Board has determined to be independent.
The Audit Committee is composed entirely of non-executive directors whom the In its assessment of the independence of the auditors and in accordance with the US Board has determined to be independent and who meet the requirements of Rule Public Company Accounting Oversight Boards standard on independence, the Audit 10A-3 of the Exchange Act.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 55
