Additional information Shareholder information Financial calendar for the 2011 financial year resident outside the UK and eurozone automatically receive dividends in pounds sterling by lodging UK bank account details but may elect to receive dividends in Interim management statement 23 July 2010 local currency into their bank account directly via our registrars global payments Half-year financial results announcement 9 November 2010 service.
co. uk for details and terms and conditions.
For dividend payments in euros, the sterling euro exchange rate will be determined Further details will be published at www.
com investor as they become by us shortly before the payment date in accordance with the Companys articles available.
Results announcements are available online at www.
we do not publish them in the press.
We will pay the ADS depositary, BNY Mellon, its dividend in US dollars.
The sterling Dividends US dollar exchange rate for this purpose will be determined by us up to ten New York Full details on the dividend amount per share can be found on page 40.
Set out below is and London business days prior to the payment date.
Cash dividends to ADS holders information relevant to the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010. will be paid by the ADS depositary in US dollars.
Ex-dividend date 2 June 2010 Further information about the dividend payments can be found at www.
Record date 4 June 2010 com dividends or, alternatively, please contact our registrars or the ADS depositary, Dividend reinvestment plan last election date 16 July 2010 1 as applicable, for further details.
Dividend payment date 6 August 2010 Note: Dividend reinvestment 1 Payment date for both ordinary shares and american depositary shares ADSs.
We offer a dividend reinvestment plan which allows holders of ordinary shares, who choose to participate, to use their cash dividends to acquire additional shares in the Dividend payment methods Company.
These are purchased on their behalf by the plan administrator through a Currently holders of ordinary shares and ADSs can: low cost dealing arrangement.
have cash dividends paid direct to a bank or building society account: or For ADS holders BNY Mellon maintains a Global BuyDIRECT Plan which is a direct elect to use the cash dividends to purchase more Vodafone ordinary shares under purchase and sale plan for depositary receipts with a dividend reinvestment facility.
the dividend reinvestment plan see below or, in the case of ADSs, have the dividends reinvested to purchase additional Vodafone ADSs.
Telephone share dealing ADS holders can, in addition to the above, have their cash dividends paid in the form A telephone share dealing service operated by our registrars is available for holders of of a cheque.
The service is available from 8.00 am to 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays, on telephone number 44 0 870 703 0084.
Detailed terms and Holders of ordinary shares: conditions are available on request by calling the above number.
resident in the UK automatically receive their dividends in pounds sterling provided that UK bank details have been provided to the Company: resident in the eurozone defined for this purpose as a country that has adopted the euro as its national currency automatically receive their dividends in euros provided that euro bank details have been provided to the Company: or Registrars and transfer office If private shareholders have any enquiries about their holding of ordinary shares, such as a change of address, change of ownership or dividend payments, they should contact our registrars at the address or telephone number below.
Computershare Investor Services PLC maintain the Companys share register and holders of ordinary shares can visit the registrars investor centre at www.
co. uk to view and update details of their shareholding.
ADS holders should address any queries or instructions regarding their holdings to the depositary bank for the Companys ADR programme at the address or telephone number below.
com shareowner ADS holders can view their account information, make changes and conduct many other transactions.
The Registrar Holders of ordinary shares resident in Ireland: Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare Investor Services Ireland Limited The Pavilions PO Box 9742 Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ, England Dublin 18, Ireland Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0198 Telephone: 0818 300 999 www.
co. uk contactus ADS depositary BNY Mellon BNY Mellon Shareowner Services PO Box 358516 Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516, USA Telephone: 1 800 233 5601 toll free or, for calls outside the USA, 1 201 680 6837 not toll free and enter company number 2160 Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.
com Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 125 Shareholder information continued Internet share dealing Share price history An internet share dealing service is available for holders of ordinary shares who want Upon flotation of the Company on 11 October 1988 the ordinary shares were valued either to buy or sell ordinary shares.
Further information about this service can at 170 pence each.
When the Company was finally demerged on 16 September 1991 be obtained from our registrars on 44 0 870 702 0198 or by logging onto the base cost of Racal Electronics Plc shares for UK taxpayers was apportioned www.
between the Company and Racal Electronics Plc for Capital Gains Tax purposes in the ratio of 80.036% and 19.964% respectively.
Opening share prices on 16 September 1991 were 332 pence for each Vodafone share and 223 pence for each Racal share.
Online shareholder services We provide a number of shareholder services online at www.
com investor On 21 July 1994 the Company effected a bonus issue of two new shares for every one where shareholders may: then held and on 30 September 1999 it effected a bonus issue of four new shares for every one held at that date.
The flotation and demerger share prices therefore may register to receive electronic shareholder communications.
Benefits to be restated as 11.333 pence and 22.133 pence respectively.
shareholders include faster receipt of communications, such as annual reports, with cost and time savings for the Company.
Electronic shareholder On 31 July 2006 the Group returned approximately 9 billion to shareholders in the communications are also more environmentally friendly: form of a B share arrangement.
As part of this arrangement, and in order to facilitate update registered address or dividend bank mandate instructions: historical share price comparisons, the Groups share capital was consolidated on view a live webcast of the AGM of the Company on 27 July 2010.
A recording will the basis of seven new ordinary shares for every eight ordinary shares held at this be available to view after that date: date.
Share prices in the five year data table below have not been restated to reflect view and or download the 2010 annual report: this consolidation.
check the current share price: calculate dividend payments: and The closing share price at 31 March 2010 was 152.0 pence 31 March 2009: 122.8 use interactive tools to calculate the value of shareholdings, look up the historic pence.
The closing share price on 17 May 2010 was 136.4 pence.
price on a particular date and chart Vodafone ordinary share price changes against indices.
The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, i the reported high and low middle market quotations of ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange, and ii Shareholders and other interested parties can also receive company press releases, the reported high and low sales prices of ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange including London Stock Exchange announcements, by registering for Vodafone NYSE NASDAQ.
The Company transferred its ADSs from the NYSE to NASDAQ on news via the website at www.
Registering for Vodafone news 29 October 2009. will enable users to: London Stock access the latest news from their mobile: and Exchange have news automatically e-mailed to them.
1 Pounds per NYSE NASDAQ ordinary share Dollars per ADS Year ended 31 March High Low High Low Annual general meeting 2006 1.55 1.09 28.04 19.32 The twenty-sixth AGM of the Company will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II 2007 1.54 1.08 29.85 20.07 Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1 on 27 July 2010 at 2008 1.98 1.36 40.87 26.88 11.00 a. m. 2009 1.70 0.96 32.87 15.30 2010 1.54 1.11 24.04 17.68 A combined review of the year and notice of AGM, including details of the business to be conducted at the AGM, will be circulated to shareholders or can be viewed on London Stock our website at www.
Shareholders who have registered to Exchange receive communications electronically will receive an email notification when the 1 Pounds per NYSE NASDAQ document is available to view on the website.
ordinary share Dollars per ADS Quarter High Low High Low 2008 2009 The AGM will be transmitted via a live webcast or can be viewed on the website at First quarter 1.70 1.40 32.87 27.72 www.
com agm on the day of the meeting and a recording will be available Second quarter 1.58 1.18 31.21 21.01 to view after that date.
Third quarter 1.41 0.96 23.06 15.30 Fourth quarter 1.48 1.13 21.88 15.46 ShareGift 2009 2010 We support ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme registered charity number First quarter 1.33 1.11 20.08 17.68 1052686.
Through ShareGift shareholders who have only a very small number of Second quarter 1.44 1.12 23.85 18.25 shares, which might be considered uneconomic to sell, are able to donate them to Third quarter 1.45 1.32 24.04 21.10 charity.
Donated shares are aggregated and sold by ShareGift, the proceeds being Fourth quarter 1.54 1.32 23.32 21.32 passed on to a wide range of UK charities.
Donating shares to charity gives rise neither 2010 2011 to a gain nor a loss for UK capital gains tax purposes and UK taxpayers may also be 2 First quarter 1.53 1.32 23.79 19.41 able to claim income tax relief on the value of the donation.
London Stock ShareGift transfer forms specifically for our shareholders are available from our Exchange 1 Pounds per NYSE NASDAQ registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, and even if the share certificate has ordinary share Dollars per ADS been lost or destroyed, the gift can be completed.
The service is generally free.
Month High Low High Low However there may be an indemnity charge for a lost or destroyed share certificate November 2009 1.40 1.33 23.61 21.86 where the value of the shares exceeds 100.
Further details about ShareGift can be December 2009 1.45 1.38 24.04 22.21 obtained from its website at www.
February 2010 1.44 1.34 22.51 21.39 March 2010 1.54 1.42 23.32 21.32 Asset Checker Limited April 2010 1.53 1.40 23.79 21.58 2 We participate in Asset Checker, the online service which provides a search facility May 2010 1.48 1.32 22.61 19.41 for solicitors and probate professionals to quickly and easily trace UK shareholdings Notes: relating to deceased estates.
For further information visit www.
co. uk 1 The Company transferred its ADSs from the NYSE to NASDAQ on 29 October 2009. or call 0870 707 4004.
2 Covering period up to 17 May 2010.
126 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 Additional information The current authorised share capital comprises 68,250,000,000 ordinary shares of Shareholders at 31 March 2010 3 7 Number of % of total 11 US cents each and 50,000 7% cumulative fixed rate shares of 1.00 each and Number of ordinary shares held accounts issued shares 38,563,935,574 B shares of 15 pence each and 28,036,064,426 deferred shares of 1 1,000 435,142 0.21 15 pence each.
1,001 5,000 80,280 0.31 5,001 50,000 26,783 0.58 Inflation and foreign currency translation 50,001 100,000 1,130 0.14 Inflation 100,001 500,000 1,066 0.43 Inflation has not had a significant effect on the Groups results of operations and More than 500,000 1,663 98.33 financial condition during the three years ended 31 March 2010.
546,064 100.00 Foreign currency translation The following table sets out the pounds sterling exchange rates of the other principal Geographical analysis of shareholders currencies of the Group, being: euros, or eurocents, the currency of the At 31 March 2010 approximately 48.8% of the Companys shares were held in the UK, European Union EU Member states which have adopted the euro as their currency, 27.4% in North America, 16.4% in Europe excluding the UK and 7.4% in the rest of and US dollars, US$, cents or, the currency of the United States.
31 March % Major shareholders Currency 1 2010 2009 change BNY Mellon, as custodian of the Companys ADR programme, held approximately 14% Average: 3 of the Companys ordinary shares of 11 7 US cents each at 17 May 2010 as nominee.
At this date US dollar 1.60 1.72 7.0 1,313 holders of record of ordinary shares had registered addresses in the United States At 31 March: and in total held approximately 0.006% of the ordinary shares of the Company.
At 17 Euro 1.12 1.08 3.7 May 2010 the following percentage interests in the ordinary share capital of the US dollar 1.52 1.43 6.3 Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, DTR 5, have been notified to the directors: The following table sets out, for the periods and dates indicated, the period end, average, high and low exchanges rates for pounds sterling expressed in US dollars Shareholder Shareholding per 1.00.
Black Rock Inc 5.74% Legal & General Group Plc 4.07% Year ended 31 March 31 March Average High Low 2006 1.74 1.79 1.92 1.71 The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company held by these 2007 1.97 1.89 1.98 1.74 shareholders are identical in all respects to the rights attaching to all the ordinary 2008 1.99 2.01 2.11 1.94 shares of the Company.
The directors are not aware, at 17 May 2010, of any other 2009 1.43 1.72 2.00 1.37 interest of 3% or more in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
The Company is 2010 1.52 1.60 1.70 1.44 not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by any foreign government or any other legal entity.
There are no arrangements known to the Company that could result in Month High Low a change of control of the Company.
November 2009 1.68 1.64 December 2009 1.67 1.59 January 2010 1.64 1.59 Articles of association and applicable English law February 2010 1.60 1.52 The following description summarises certain provisions of the Companys articles March 2010 1.54 1.48 of association and applicable English law.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by April 2010 1.55 1.52 reference to the Companies Act 2006 of England and Wales and the Companys articles of association.
Information on where shareholders can obtain copies of the articles of association is provided under Documents on display on page 129.
Markets Ordinary shares of Vodafone Group Plc are traded on the London Stock Exchange The Company is a public limited company under the laws of England and Wales.
The and with effect from 29 October 2009 its listing of ADSs was transferred from the Company is registered in England and Wales under the name Vodafone Group Public NYSE to NASDAQ.
The Company had a total market capitalisation of approximately Limited Company with the registration number 1833679.
71.8 billion at 17 May 2010 making it the third largest listing in The Financial Times th Stock Exchange 100 index and the 38 largest company in the world based on All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid.
Accordingly, no further market capitalisation at that date.
contribution of capital may be required by the Company from the holders of such shares.
ADSs, each representing ten ordinary shares, are traded on NASDAQ under the symbol VOD.
The ADSs are evidenced by ADRs issued by BNY Mellon, as depositary, English law specifies that any alteration to the articles of association must be under a deposit agreement, dated as of 12 October 1988, as amended and restated approved by a special resolution of the shareholders.
on 26 December 1989, 16 September 1991, 30 June 1999, 31 July 2006 and 30 July 2009 between the Company, the depositary and the holders from time to time of Articles of association ADRs issued thereunder.
Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, a company can remove the object clauses which become part of its articles of association and as a result the companys objects ADS holders are not members of the Company but may instruct BNY Mellon on the will be unrestricted.
exercise of voting rights relative to the number of ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
See Articles of association and applicable English law Rights attaching A special resolution will be proposed at the 2010 AGM to i remove the Companys to the Companys shares Voting rights on page 128. object clause together with all other provisions of its memorandum which, by virtue of the Companies Act 2006, are treated as forming part of the Companys articles of association and ii adopt new articles of association in order to update the Companys existing articles of association to take account of the implementation on 3 August 2009 of the Shareholders Rights Regulations and the implementation of the remaining parts of the Companies Act 2006.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 127 Shareholder information continued Directors Dividend rights The Companys articles of association provide for a Board of directors, consisting Holders of 7% cumulative fixed rate shares are entitled to be paid in respect of each of not fewer than three directors, who shall manage the business and affairs of financial year, or other accounting period of the Company, a fixed cumulative the Company.
preferential dividend of 7% per annum on the nominal value of the fixed rate shares.
A fixed cumulative preferential dividend may only be paid out of available distributable The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company subject to profits which the directors have resolved should be distributed.
The fixed rate shares any restrictions in the articles of association, the Companies Act as defined in the do not have any other right to share in the Companys profits.
articles of association and any special resolution.
Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may, by ordinary resolution, declare Under the Companys articles of association a director cannot vote in respect of any dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended by proposal in which the director, or any person connected with the director, has a the directors.
The Board of directors may also pay interim dividends.
No dividend may material interest other than by virtue of the directors interest in the Companys be paid other than out of profits available for distribution.
Dividends on ordinary shares or other securities.
However this restriction on voting does not apply to shares can be paid to shareholders in whatever currency the directors decide, using resolutions i giving the director or a third party any guarantee, security or indemnity an appropriate exchange for any currency conversions which are required.
in respect of obligations or liabilities incurred at the request of or for the benefit of the Company, ii giving any guarantee, security or indemnity to the director or a third If a dividend has not been claimed for one year after the date of the resolution passed party in respect of obligations of the Company for which the director has assumed at a general meeting declaring that dividend or the resolution of the directors responsibility under an indemnity or guarantee, iii relating to an offer of securities of providing for payment of that dividend, the directors may invest the dividend or use the Company in which the director is entitled to participate as a holder of shares or it in some other way for the benefit of the Company until the dividend is claimed.
If other securities or in the underwriting of such shares or securities, iv concerning any the dividend remains unclaimed for 12 years after the relevant resolution either other company in which the director together with any connected person is a declaring that dividend or providing for payment of that dividend, it will be forfeited shareholder or an officer or is otherwise interested, provided that the director and belong to the Company.
together with any connected person is not interested in 1% or more of any class of the Companys equity share capital or the voting rights available to its shareholders, Voting rights v relating to the arrangement of any employee benefit in which the director will share The Companys articles of association provide that voting on substantive resolutions equally with other employees and vi relating to any insurance that the Company i. e. any resolution which is not a procedural resolution at a general meeting shall be purchases or renews for its directors or any group of people including directors.
On a poll, each shareholder who is entitled to vote and is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held.
Procedural resolutions such The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow as a resolution to adjourn a General Meeting or a resolution on the choice of Chairman money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount of all liabilities and of a general meeting shall be decided on a show of hands, where each shareholder obligations of the Group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount equal who is present at the meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares held, to 1.5 times the aggregate of the Groups share capital and reserves calculated in the unless a poll is demanded.
In addition, the articles of association allow persons manner prescribed in the articles of association unless sanctioned by an ordinary appointed as proxies of shareholders entitled to vote at general meetings to vote on resolution of the Companys shareholders.
a show of hands, as well as to vote on a poll and attend and speak at general meetings.
The Company can make market purchases of its own shares or agree to do so in the Under English law two shareholders present in person constitute a quorum for future provided it is duly authorised by its members in a general meeting and subject purposes of a general meeting unless a companys articles of association specify to and in accordance with Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006. otherwise.
The Companys articles of association do not specify otherwise, except that the shareholders do not need to be present in person and may instead be present At each AGM all directors who were elected or last re-elected at or before the AGM by proxy to constitute a quorum.
held in the third calendar year before the current year shall automatically retire.
In 2005 the Company reviewed its policy regarding the retirement and re-election of Under English law shareholders of a public company such as the Company are not directors and, although it is not intended to amend the Companys articles of permitted to pass resolutions by written consent.
association in this regard, the Board has decided in the interests of good corporate governance that all of the directors wishing to continue in office should offer Record holders of the Companys ADSs are entitled to attend, speak and vote on a themselves for re-election annually.
poll or a show of hands at any general meeting of the Companys shareholders by the depositarys appointment of them as corporate representatives with respect to the No person is disqualified from being a director or is required to vacate that office by underlying ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Alternatively holders of ADSs reason of attaining a maximum age.
are entitled to vote by supplying their voting instructions to the depositary or its nominee who will vote the ordinary shares underlying their ADSs in accordance with Directors are not required under the Companys articles of association to hold any their instructions.
shares of the Company as a qualification to act as a director, although executive directors participating in long-term incentive plans must comply with the Companys Employees are able to vote any shares held under the Vodafone Group Share share ownership guidelines.
In accordance with best practice in the UK for corporate Incentive Plan and My ShareBank a vested share account through the respective governance, compensation awarded to executive directors is decided by a plans trustees.
remuneration committee consisting exclusively of non-executive directors.
Holders of the Companys 7% cumulative fixed rate shares are only entitled to vote In addition, as required by The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations, the on any resolution to vary or abrogate the rights attached to the fixed rate shares.
Board has, since 2003, prepared a report to shareholders on the directors Holders have one vote for every fully paid 7% cumulative fixed rate share.
remuneration which complies with the regulations see pages 57 to 67.
The report is also subject to a shareholder vote.
Liquidation rights In the event of the liquidation of the Company, after payment of all liabilities and Rights attaching to the Companys shares deductions in accordance with English law, the holders of the Companys 7% At 31 March 2010 the issued share capital of the Company was comprised of 50,000 cumulative fixed rate shares would be entitled to a sum equal to the capital paid up 7% cumulative fixed rate shares of 1.00 each and 52,663,134,573 ordinary shares on such shares, together with certain dividend payments, in priority to holders of the 3 7 excluding treasury shares of 11 US cents each.
The holders of the fixed rate shares do not have any other right to share in the Companys surplus assets.
128 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 Additional information Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares Under Section 336 of the Companies Act 2006 the annual general meeting of Under Section 549 of the Companies Act 2006 directors are, with certain exceptions, shareholders must be held each calendar year and within six months of the unable to allot the Companys ordinary shares or securities convertible into the Companys year end.
Companys ordinary shares without the authority of the shareholders in a general meeting.
In addition, Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 imposes further Electronic communications restrictions on the issue of equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 The Company may, subject to and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, which include the Companys ordinary shares and securities convertible into ordinary communicate all shareholder information by electronic means, including by making shares which are, or are to be, paid up wholly in cash and not first offered to existing such information available on a website, with notification that such information shall shareholders.
The Companys articles of association allow shareholders to authorise be available on the website.
directors for a period up to five years to allot i relevant securities generally up to an amount fixed by the shareholders and ii equity securities for cash other than in Variation of rights connection with a rights issue up to an amount specified by the shareholders and If at any time the Companys share capital is divided into different classes of shares, free of the pre-emption restriction.
In accordance with institutional investor the rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the provisions of the guidelines, the amount of relevant securities to be fixed by shareholders is normally Companies Act 2006, either with the consent in writing of the holders of three restricted to one third of the existing issued ordinary share capital and the amount of quarters in nominal value of the shares of that class or at a separate meeting of the equity securities to be issued for cash other than in connection with a rights issue is holders of the shares of that class.
restricted to 5% of the existing issued ordinary share capital.
At every such separate meeting all of the provisions of the articles of association Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that i the quorum is to be There are no provisions in the articles of association whereby persons acquiring, the number of persons which must be at least two who hold or represent by proxy holding or disposing of a certain percentage of the Companys shares are required to not less than one third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or, if such make disclosure of their ownership percentage although such requirements exist quorum is not present on an adjourned meeting, one person who holds shares of the under rules derived by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs.
class regardless of the number of shares he holds, ii any person present in person or by proxy may demand a poll, and iii each shareholder will have one vote per share The basic disclosure requirement upon a person acquiring or disposing of shares that held in that particular class in the event a poll is taken.
Class rights are deemed not to are admitted to trading on a regulated market and carrying voting rights is an have been varied by the creation or issue of new shares ranking equally with or obligation to provide written notification to the Company, including certain details subsequent to that class of shares in sharing in profits or assets of the Company or by as set out in DTR 5, where the percentage of the persons voting rights which he holds a redemption or repurchase of the shares by the Company.
as shareholder or through his direct or indirect holding of financial instruments falling within DTR 5.3.
1R reaches or exceeds 3% and reaches, exceeds or falls below Limitations on voting and shareholding each 1% threshold thereafter.
As far as the Company is aware there are no limitations imposed on the transfer, holding or voting of the Companys shares other than those limitations that would Under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company may, by notice in generally apply to all of the shareholders.
No shareholder has any securities carrying writing, require a person that the Company knows or has reasonable cause to believe special rights with regard to control of the Company.
is, or was during the preceding three years, interested in the Companys shares to indicate whether or not that is correct and, if that person does or did hold an interest Documents on display in the Companys shares, to provide certain information as set out in the Companies The Company is subject to the information requirements of the Exchange Act Act 2006.
DTR 3 deals with the disclosure by persons discharging managerial applicable to foreign private issuers.
In accordance with these requirements the responsibility and their connected persons of the occurrence of all transactions Company files its annual report on Form 20-F and other related documents with the conducted on their account in the shares of the Company.
Part 28 of The Companies SEC.
These documents may be inspected at the SECs public reference rooms located Act 2006 sets out the statutory functions of the Panel on Takeovers & Mergers the at 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549.
Information on the operation of the public Panel.
The Panel is responsible for issuing and administering the Code on Takeovers reference room can be obtained in the US by calling the SEC on 1-800-SEC-0330.
& Mergers which includes disclosure requirements on all parties to a takeover with In addition, some of the Companys SEC filings, including all those filed on or after 4 regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or offeree company and also on their November 2002, are available on the SECs website www.
Shareholders can respective associates during the course of an offer period.
also obtain copies of the Companys articles of association from the Vodafone website at www.
com governance or from the Companys registered office.
General meetings and notices Subject to the articles of association, annual general meetings are held at such times Debt securities and place as determined by the directors of the Company.
The directors may also, Pursuant to an Agreement of Resignation, Appointment and Acceptance, dated as of when they think fit, convene other general meetings of the Company.
General 24 July 2007, by and among the Company, BNY Mellon and Citibank N. A, BNY Mellon meetings may also be convened on requisition as provided by the Companies became the successor trustee to Citibank N. A. under the Companys Indenture dated Act 2006. as of 10 February 2000.
An annual general meeting needs to be called by not less than twenty-one days Material contracts notice in writing.
Subject to obtaining shareholder approval on an annual basis, the At the date of this annual report the Group is not party to any contracts that are Company may call other general meetings on 14 clear days notice.
The directors considered material to the Groups results or operations except for its US$9.1 billion may determine that persons entitled to receive notices of meetings are those persons credit facilities which are discussed under Financial position and resources on entered on the register at the close of business on a day determined by the directors page 43. but not later than twenty-one days before the date the relevant notice is sent.
The notice may also specify the record date, which shall not be more than forty-eight hours before the time fixed for the meeting non-working days must be excluded, Exchange controls pursuant to the Companies Act 2006.
There are no UK government laws, decrees or regulations that restrict or affect the export or import of capital, including but not limited to, foreign exchange controls on Shareholders must provide the Company with an address or so far as the Companies remittance of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of the Groups Act 2006 allows an electronic address or fax number in the United Kingdom in order operations except as otherwise set out under Taxation on the following page.
to be entitled to receive notices of shareholders meetings and other notices and documents.
In certain circumstances the Company may give notices to shareholders by advertisement in newspapers in the United Kingdom.
Holders of the Companys ADSs are entitled to receive notices under the terms of the Deposit Agreement relating to the ADSs.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 129 Shareholder information continued Taxation A US holder is not subject to a UK withholding tax.
The US holder includes in gross As this is a complex area investors should consult their own tax advisor regarding the income for US federal income tax purposes only the amount of the dividend actually US federal, state and local, the UK and other tax consequences of owning and received from us and the receipt of a dividend does not entitle the US holder to a disposing of shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances.
This section describes, primarily for a US holder as defined below, in general terms, Dividends must be included in income when the US holder, in the case of shares, or the principal US federal income tax and UK tax consequences of owning or disposing the depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the dividend of shares or ADSs in the Company held as capital assets for US and UK tax purposes.
and will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to US This section does not however cover the tax consequences for members of certain corporations in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
Dividends classes of holders subject to special rules including officers of the Company, will be income from sources outside the United States.
For the purpose of the foreign employees and holders that, directly or indirectly, hold 10% or more of the Companys tax credit limitation, foreign source income is classified in one or two baskets and the voting stock.
credit for foreign taxes on income in any basket is limited to US federal income tax allocable to that income.
Generally the dividends we pay will constitute foreign A US holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs that is for US federal income source income in the passive income basket.
tax purposes: In the case of shares, the amount of the dividend distribution to be included in income a citizen or resident of the United States: will be the US dollar value of the pound sterling payments made determined at the a US domestic corporation: spot pound sterling US dollar rate on the date of the dividend distribution regardless an estate, the income of which is subject to US federal income tax regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
Generally any gain or loss of its source: or resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the period from the date the a trust, if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration dividend payment is to be included in income to the date the payment is converted and one or more US persons are authorised to control all substantial decisions of into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss.
Generally the gain or loss the trust.
will be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
If a partnership holds the shares or ADSs, the US federal income tax treatment of a partner will generally depend on the status of the partner and the tax treatment of Taxation of capital gains the partnership.
A partner in a partnership holding the shares or ADSs should consult UK taxation its tax advisor with regard to the US federal income tax treatment of an investment in A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain on the disposal the shares or ADSs.
of our shares or ADSs if the US holder is: This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative a citizen of the United States resident or ordinarily resident for UK tax purposes in history, existing and proposed regulations thereunder, published rulings and court the United Kingdom: decisions, and on the tax laws of the United Kingdom and the Double Taxation a citizen of the United States who has been resident or ordinarily resident for UK Convention between the United States and the United Kingdom the treaty, all as tax purposes in the United Kingdom, ceased to be so resident or ordinarily resident currently in effect.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
for a period of less than five years of assessment and who disposed of the shares or ADSs during that period a temporary non-resident, unless the shares or ADSs This section is further based in part upon the representations of the depositary and were also acquired during that period, such liability arising on that individuals assumes that each obligation in the deposit agreement and any related agreement return to the UK: will be performed in accordance with its terms.
a US domestic corporation resident in the United Kingdom by reason of being centrally managed and controlled in the United Kingdom: or Based on this assumption, for purposes of the treaty and the US-UK double taxation a citizen of the United States or a US domestic corporation that carries on a trade, convention relating to estate and gift taxes the Estate Tax Convention, and for US profession or vocation in the United Kingdom through a branch or agency or, in federal income tax and UK tax purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be the case of US domestic companies, through a permanent establishment and that treated as the owner of the shares in the Company represented by those ADSs.
has used the shares or ADSs for the purposes of such trade, profession or vocation Generally exchanges of shares for ADRs and ADRs for shares will not be subject to US or has used, held or acquired the shares or ADSs for the purposes of such branch federal income tax or to UK tax other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax see or agency or permanent establishment.
the section on these taxes on the following page.
Under the treaty capital gains on dispositions of the shares or ADSs are generally Taxation of dividends subject to tax only in the country of residence of the relevant holder as determined UK taxation under both the laws of the United Kingdom and the United States and as required by Under current UK tax law no withholding tax will be deducted from the dividends we the terms of the treaty.
However individuals who are residents of either the United pay.
Shareholders who are within the charge to UK corporation tax will be subject to Kingdom or the United States and who have been residents of the other jurisdiction corporation tax on the dividends we pay unless the dividends fall within an exempt the US or the UK, as the case may be at any time during the six years immediately class and certain other conditions are met.
It is expected that the dividends we pay preceding the relevant disposal of shares or ADSs may be subject to tax with respect would generally be exempt.
to capital gains arising from the dispositions of the shares or ADSs not only in the country of which the holder is resident at the time of the disposition but also in that A shareholder in the Company who is an individual resident for UK tax purposes in the other country although, in respect of UK taxation, generally only to the extent that United Kingdom is entitled, in calculating their liability to UK income tax, to a tax such an individual comprises a temporary non-resident.
credit on cash dividends we pay on our shares or ADSs and the tax credit is equal to one-ninth of the cash dividend.
US federal income taxation Subject to the PFIC rules described below a US holder that sells or otherwise disposes of US federal income taxation our shares or ADSs will recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax Subject to the PFIC rules described below, a US holder is subject to US federal income purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised taxation on the gross amount of any dividend we pay out of our current or and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the shares or ADSs.
Generally accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
a capital gain of a non-corporate US holder that is recognised in tax years beginning Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in tax years beginning before 1 January before 1 January 2011 is taxed at a maximum rate of 15% provided the holder has a 2011 that constitute qualified dividend income will be taxable to the holder at a holding period of more than one year.
The gain or loss will generally be income or loss maximum tax rate of 15% provided that the ordinary shares or ADSs are held for more from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
The than 60 days during the 121 day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend deductibility of losses is subject to limitations.
date and the holder meets other holding period requirements.
Dividends paid by us with respect to the shares or ADSs will generally be qualified dividend income.
130 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 Additional information Additional tax considerations No stamp duty will be payable on any transfer of our ADSs provided that the ADSs UK inheritance tax and any separate instrument of transfer are executed and retained at all times outside An individual who is domiciled in the United States for the purposes of the Estate Tax the United Kingdom.
A transfer of our shares in registered form will attract ad valorem Convention and is not a UK national will not be subject to UK inheritance tax in stamp duty generally at the rate of 0.5% of the purchase price of the shares.
There is respect of our shares or ADSs on the individuals death or on a transfer of the shares no charge to ad valorem stamp duty on gifts.
or ADSs during the individuals lifetime, provided that any applicable US federal gift or estate tax is paid, unless the shares or ADSs are part of the business property of a SDRT is generally payable on an unconditional agreement to transfer our shares in UK permanent establishment or pertain to a UK fixed base used for the performance registered form at 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration for the transfer, of independent personal services.
Where the shares or ADSs have been placed in but is repayable if, within six years of the date of the agreement, an instrument trust by a settlor they may be subject to UK inheritance tax unless, when the trust was transferring the shares is executed or, if the SDRT has not been paid, the liability to created, the settlor was domiciled in the United States and was not a UK national.
pay the tax but not necessarily interest and penalties would be cancelled.
However Where the shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US federal an agreement to transfer our ADSs will not give rise to SDRT.
gift or estate tax, the estate tax convention generally provides a credit against US federal tax liabilities for UK inheritance tax paid.
PFIC rules We do not believe that our shares or ADSs will be treated as stock of a passive foreign UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax investment company PFIC for US federal income tax purposes.
This conclusion is Stamp duty will, subject to certain exceptions, be payable on any instrument a factual determination that is made annually and thus is subject to change.
If we are transferring our shares to the custodian of the depositary at the rate of 1.5% on the treated as a PFIC, any gain realised on the sale or other disposition of the shares or amount or value of the consideration if on sale or on the value of such shares if not ADSs would in general not be treated as capital gain unless a US holder elects to be on sale.
Stamp duty reserve tax SDRT, at the rate of 1.5% of the price or value of the taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis with respect to the shares or ADSs.
shares, could also be payable in these circumstances and on issue to such a person Otherwise a US holder would be treated as if he or she has realised such gain but no SDRT will be payable if stamp duty equal to such SDRT liability is paid.
A recent and certain excess distributions rateably over the holding period for the shares ruling by the European Court of Justice has determined that the 1.5% SDRT charge or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such year to on issue to a clearance service is contrary to EU law.
HMRC have indicated that where which the gain was allocated.
An interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to new shares are first issued to a clearance service or to a depositary within the each such year would also apply.
Dividends received from us would not be eligible European Union, the 1.5% SDRT charge will not be levied.
However to the extent that for the preferential tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income for certain the clearance service or depositary is located outside the European Union, HMRC non-corporate holders.
have indicated that such charge would still apply.
In accordance with the terms of the deposit agreement, any tax or duty payable on deposits of shares by the depositary or the custodian of the depositary will be charged to the party to whom ADSs are delivered against such deposits.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 131
