Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Segment analysis The Group has a single group of related services and products being the supply of communications services and products.
Segment information is provided on the basis of geographic areas, being the basis on which the Group manages its worldwide interests.
Revenue is attributed to a country or region based on the location of the Group company reporting the revenue.
Inter-segment sales are charged at arms length prices.
During the year ended 31 March 2010 the Group changed how it determines and discloses segmental EBITDA and adjusted operating profit in order to ensure the Groups disclosures better reflect the contribution of each segment to the Groups underlying operating performance and remain consistent with internal reporting to management.
The changes do not impact Vodafones consolidated results.
Intercompany revenue and expenses arising from royalty fees for the use of the Vodafone brand, which were previously included within operating expenses, are now excluded from the calculation of EBITDA and adjusted operating profit of each segment and Common Functions.
In addition, intercompany charges for fixed asset usage, which were also previously included within operating expenses, are now reported within depreciation for purposes of calculating EBITDA of each segment.
The tables below present segment information on the revised basis, with prior years amended to conform to the current year presentation.
2 EBITDA is stated before 2 million 2009: 1 : 2008: nil representing the Groups share of results in associates.
3 EBITDA is stated before 50 million 2009: 27: 2008: nil representing the Groups share of results in associates.
4 EBITDA is stated before 6 million 2009: 4 million: 2008: 2 million representing the Groups share of results in associates.
5 E BITDA is stated before 2 million 2009: 1 million: 2008: 2 million relating to the Groups share of results in associates.
84 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 Financials A reconciliation of EBITDA to operating profit is shown below.
For a reconciliation of operating profit to profit before taxation, see the consolidated income statement on page 74.
2 Includes additions to property, plant and equipment and computer software, reported within intangible assets.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 85
