Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation An amendment to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements was issued in January 2008 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS as 2009.
The amendment requires that when a transaction occurs with non-controlling issued by the IASB.
The consolidated financial statements are also prepared in interests in Group entities that do not result in a change in control, the difference accordance with IFRS adopted by the EU, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of between the consideration paid or received and the recorded non-controlling the EU IAS Regulations.
interest should be recognised in equity.
In cases where control is lost, any retained interest should be remeasured to fair value with the difference between fair value and The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management the previous carrying value being recognised immediately in the income statement.
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and The Group has historically entered into transactions that would have been within the liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial scope of the amendment to this standard and may do so in the future.
statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
For a discussion on the Groups critical accounting estimates see Critical Phase I of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued in November 2009 and is accounting estimates on pages 71 and 72.
Actual results could differ from those effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing introduces changes to the classification and measurement of financial assets.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the Group is currently assessing the impact of the standard on its results, financial estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the position and cash flows.
This standard has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The Group has not adopted the following pronouncements, which have been issued Amounts in the consolidated financial statements are stated in pounds sterling.
The Group does not currently believe the adoption of these pronouncements will have a material impact on the consolidated results, financial Vodafone Plc is registered in England No.
1833679. position or cash flows of the Group.
These pronouncements have been endorsed for use in the EU, unless otherwise stated.
 Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Accounting convention Exposures Qualifying for Hedge Accounting, effective for annual periods The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis except beginning on or after 1 July 2009. for certain financial and equity instruments that have been measured at fair value.
Embedded derivatives: Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 30 June 2009.
New accounting pronouncements adopted Improvements to IFRSs issued in April 2009 are effective over a range of dates, IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes with the earliest being for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
The Group adopted IFRIC 13 on 1 April 2009.
The interpretation addresses how IFRS 1, Additional Exemptions for First-time Adopters, effective for periods companies that grant their customers loyalty award credits when buying goods and beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
This standard has not yet been endorsed for services should account for their obligations to provide free or discounted goods and use in the EU.
It requires that consideration received be allocated between the award IFRS for Small and Medium-Sized Entities, issued July 2009, effective credits and the other components of the sale.
The adoption of this interpretation did immediately.
not result in a material impact on the Groups results or financial position.
IFRS 2, Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions, effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs Amendment to IAS 32, Classification of Rights Issues, effective for annual The Group adopted IAS 23 Revised on 1 April 2009.
This standard requires the periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010. capitalisation of borrowing costs to the extent they are directly attributable to the Amendment to IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures State-controlled Entities and acquisition, production or construction of a qualifying asset.
The option of immediate the Definition of a Related Party, effective for annual periods beginning on or after recognition of those borrowing costs as an expense, previously used by the Group, 1 January 2011.
This amendment has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
The adoption of this standard did not result in a material impact Amendment to IFRIC 14, Prepayments on a Minimum Funding Requirement, on the Groups results or financial position.
effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
This interpretation has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, effective for annual periods The Group adopted IAS 1 Revised on 1 April 2009.
A separate consolidated beginning on or after 1 July 2009. statement of changes in equity is now included as part of the primary financial IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, effective statements.
The Group changed the naming of the primary financial statements and annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010 with early adoption permitted.
adopted certain new terminology set out in the revised standard.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure Basis of consolidation The Group adopted an amendment to IFRS 7 on 1 April 2009.
The standard requires The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the enhanced disclosure regarding fair value measurements and liquidity risk.
The Company and entities controlled, both unilaterally and jointly, by the Company.
adoption of this standard did not impact the Groups results or financial position.
Accounting for subsidiaries New accounting pronouncements not yet adopted A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations was issued in January 2008 and will apply as to obtain benefits from its activities.
to business combinations occurring on or after 1 April 2010.
The revised standard introduces a number of changes in the accounting for business combinations that The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the will impact the amount of goodwill recognised, the reported results in the period that income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of a business combination occurs and future reported results.
This standard is likely disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial to have a significant impact on the Groups accounting for business combinations statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used post adoption.
78 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010
