2010 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty-sixth Annual General Meeting of Vodafone 19 That the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to and Group Plc Vodafone or the Company will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1 on Tuesday, 27 July exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe 2010 at 11.00 a. m. to transact the business set out in the Resolutions below.
for or to convert any security into shares: Resolutions 1 to 19 inclusive and 24 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and 19.1 up to a nominal amount of US$2,006,451,886: Resolutions 20 to 23 inclusive will be proposed as Special Resolutions.
Voting on all Resolutions will be by way of a poll.
19.2 c omprising equity securities as defined in Section 560 1 of the 2006 Act up to a further nominal amount of US$2,006,451,886 in The Board recommends a vote FOR Resolutions 1 to 24 connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: 1 To receive the Companys accounts and reports of the directors and the auditor such authorities to apply in substitution for all previous authorities pursuant to for the year ended 31 March 2010.
Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 and notwithstanding any authority given pursuant to the Articles of Association as amended pursuant to Resolution 22, 2 That Sir John Bond, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for and to expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting or on 30 September re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
2011, whichever is the earlier but, in each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements during the relevant period which would, or 3 That John Buchanan, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for might, require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or to convert any re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
security into shares to be granted after the authority ends.
4 That Vittorio Colao, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for For the purposes of this Resolution, rights issue means an offer to: re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
a ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to 5 That Michel Combes, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for their existing holdings: and re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
b people who are holders of other equity securities if this is required by the 6 That Andy Halford, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for rights of those securities or, if the directors consider it necessary, as re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
permitted by the rights of those securities, 7 That Stephen Pusey, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for to subscribe for further securities by means of the issue of a renounceable letter re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
or other negotiable document which may be traded for a period before payment for the securities is due, but subject in both cases to such exclusions or 8 That Alan Jebson, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates or legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory.
9 That Samuel Jonah, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
20 That, subject to the passing of Resolution 19, the directors be empowered to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 1 of the 2006 Act wholly 10 That Nick Land, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for re-election, for cash: be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
20.1 pursuant to the authority given by paragraph 19.1 of Resolution 19 11 That Anne Lauvergeon, a director retiring voluntarily and offering herself for above or where the allotment constitutes an allotment of equity re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
securities by virtue of Section 560 3 of the 2006 Act in each case: 12 That Luc Vandevelde, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for a in connection with a pre-emptive offer: and re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
b o therwise than in connection with a pre-emptive offer, up to an 13 That Anthony Watson, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for aggregate nominal amount of US$330,338,835: and re-election, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
20.2 pursuant to the authority given by paragraph 19.2 of Resolution 19 14 That Philip Yea, a director retiring voluntarily and offering himself for re-election, above in connection with a rights issue, be and is hereby re-elected as a director of the Company.
as if Section 561 1 of the 2006 Act did not apply to any such allotment: 15 That the final dividend recommended by the directors of 5.65p per ordinary share for the year ended 31 March 2010 be declared payable on the ordinary such power to apply notwithstanding any power given pursuant to the Articles shares of the Company to all members whose names appeared on the Register of Association as amended pursuant to Resolution 22, and to expire at the end of Members on 4 June 2010 and that such dividend be paid on 6 August 2010. of the next Annual General Meeting or on 30 September 2011, whichever is the earlier but, in each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into 16 To approve the Remuneration Report of the Board for the year ended agreements during the relevant period which would, or might, require equity 31 March 2010. securities to be allotted after the power ends.
17 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors to the Company until the conclusion of For the purposes of this Resolution: the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
a rights issue has the same meaning as in Resolution 19 above: 18 To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
Vodafone Group Plc 5 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued b pre-emptive offer means an offer of equity securities open for acceptance 24 That: for a period fixed by the directors to 1 holders other than the Company 24.1 the rules of the Vodafone Share Incentive Plan the SIP be and are on the register on a record date fixed by the directors of ordinary shares in hereby amended so that they shall be in the form of the amended proportion to their respective holdings and 2 other persons so entitled by rules produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the virtue of the rights attaching to any other equity securities held by them purposes of identification, as summarised on page 11 of this document, but subject in both cases to such exclusions or other arrangements as the to permit the continued operation of the SIP up to 27 July 2020 and directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to treasury shares, the directors be authorised to do all things appropriate to operate the fractional entitlements, record dates or legal, regulatory or practical amended SIP: and problems in, or under the laws of, any territory: c references to an allotment of equity securities shall include a sale of 24.2 t he directors be authorised to establish, for the benefit of employees treasury shares: and overseas, further plans based on the amended SIP, subject to such modifications as may be necessary or desirable to take account of d the nominal value of any securities shall be taken to be, in the case of rights overseas securities laws, exchange control and tax legislation provided to subscribe for or convert any securities into shares of the Company, that any shares made available under such further plans are treated as the nominal value of such shares which may be allotted pursuant to counting against any limits on participation in the amended SIP.
By Order of the Board 21 That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 701 of the 2006 Act to make market purchases as defined in Section Rosemary Martin 3 693 of the 2006 Act of ordinary shares of US 11 7 cents each in the capital of Secretary the Company provided that: Vodafone House, The Connection, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 2FN, England 21.1 the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares which may be 2 June 2010 purchased is 5,266,936,201: 21.2 the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is 3 US 11 7 cents: 21.3 the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid for any ordinary share does not exceed the higher of 1 5 per cent above the average closing price of such shares for the five business days on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List prior to the date of purchase and 2 the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid as stipulated by Article 5 1 of Commission Regulation EC 22 December 2003 implementing the Market Abuse Directive as regards exemptions for buy-back programmes and stabilisation of financial instruments No 2273 2003 : and 21.
4 this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2011 or on 30 September 2011, whichever is the earlier, unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares the contract for which was concluded before the expiry of such authority and which might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
22 That with effect from the end of this Annual General Meeting or any adjournment thereof: 22.1 the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by deleting all the provisions of the Companys Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of Section 28 of the 2006 Act, are to be treated as provisions of the Companys Articles of Association: and 22.2 the Articles of Association of the Company be and are hereby amended so that they shall be in the form of the amended articles of association produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification.
23 That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
6 Vodafone Group Plc 2010 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting Notes 1 A shareholder is entitled to appoint another person as his her Proxy to exercise all or any of 11 CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers his her rights to attend and to speak and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
A shareholder should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any may appoint more than one Proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation each Proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member that shareholder.
A Proxy need not also be a shareholder of the Company.
Shareholders who concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored have lodged a Proxy whether by post, via the internet, or by submitting a CREST message if member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his her CREST sponsor applicable are not precluded from attending and voting at the meeting themselves.
or voting service provider takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, 2 To appoint a Proxy a the Form of Proxy and any power of attorney or other authority under CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers which it is executed or a duly certified copy of any such power or authority, must be sent to are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical the Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater limitations of the CREST system and timings.
Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY, or b the Proxy appointment must be lodged using the CREST Proxy Voting Service in accordance with Note 10 below, or c the Proxy appointment must be 12 The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in registered electronically on the website at www.
com agm, in each case so as to be Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. received no later than 11 a. m. on Friday, 23 July 2010.
13 Shareholders should note that, under Section 527 of the 2006 Act, shareholders meeting the 3 Any person to whom this Notice of Annual General Meeting is sent who is a person nominated threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to under Section 146 of the 2006 Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to i the audit of the under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a Proxy for the Annual be laid before the Annual General Meeting for the financial year beginning 1 April 2009, or ii General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such Proxy appointment right or does not wish any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company appointed for the financial year to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the beginning 1 April 2009 ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The right to appoint a Proxy does not apply to accounts and reports were laid.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting shareholders whose shares are held on their behalf by a Nominated Person.
The rights any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 relating to Proxy appointments in Note 1 do not apply to Nominated Persons.
requirements as to website availability of the 2006 Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the 2006 Act, it must forward the 4 Entitlement to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting, and the number of votes which statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement may be cast at the Annual General Meeting, will be determined by reference to the Companys available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting register of members at 11 a. m. on Friday, 23 July 2010 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 48 hours for the relevant financial year includes any statement that the Company has been required excluding non-working days before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting as the case may under Section 527 of the 2006 Act to publish on a website.
In each case, changes to the register of members after such time will be disregarded.
14 Any shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting has the right to ask questions.
The 5 Copies of the service contracts of the directors of the Company and terms and conditions of Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt appointment of all non-executive directors of the Company, a copy of the Companys current with at the Annual General Meeting but no such answer need be given if i to do so would Memorandum and Articles of Association, a copy of the full amended terms of the proposed interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential articles of association referred to in Resolution 22, a copy of the amended rules of the SIP information, ii the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a referred to in Resolution 24 and a copy of this Notice of Annual General Meeting will be question, or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and the offices of Linklaters meeting that the question be answered.
LLP, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ during normal business hours on any weekday excluding Saturday, Sunday and public holidays from the date of this Notice of Annual 15 Under Section 338 and Section 338A of the 2006 Act shareholders meeting the threshold General Meeting until and including the date of the Annual General Meeting and at The requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company i to give, to Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1 from shareholders of the Company entitled to receive notice of the Annual General Meeting, 10.45 a. m. on that date until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the Annual General Meeting and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the Annual 6 A copy of the full amended terms of the proposed articles of association referred General Meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly to in Resolution 22, a copy of the amended rules of the SIP referred to in Resolution 24 and included in the business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be a copy of this Notice of Annual General Meeting and other information required by included in the business unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be Section 311A of the 2006 Act are also available for viewing on the Companys website ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys www.
constitution or otherwise, b it is defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution 7 As at 19 May 2010, which is the latest practicable date before publication of this Notice of of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be authorised Annual General Meeting, the Companys issued share capital comprised 57,809,296,269 by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than 14 June 3 ordinary shares of US 11 7 cents each including treasury shares and 50,000 7 per cent 2010, being the date 6 clear weeks before the Annual General Meeting, and in the case of a cumulative fixed rate shares of 1 each.
The total number of votes exercisable as at 19 May matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out 2010 was 52,669,362,015.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the grounds for the request.
general meetings of the Company.
On a vote by show of hands every ordinary shareholder who is present and entitled to vote has one vote and every Proxy present who has been duly 16 Shareholders may not use any electronic address provided in either this Notice of Annual appointed by a shareholder entitled to vote has one vote.
On a vote by poll every ordinary General Meeting or any related documents including the Form of Proxy to communicate shareholder who is present in person or by Proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held.
with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
The holders of 7 per cent cumulative fixed rate shares are only entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company in very limited circumstances, as set out in the Articles of Association of the Company.
Each of the Resolutions to be put to the meeting will be voted on by poll and not by show of hands.
A poll reflects the number of voting rights exercisable by each member and so the Board considers it a more democratic method of voting.
It is also in line with recommendations made by the Shareholder Voting Working Group in 2004.
8 Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
9 CREST members who wish to appoint a Proxy or Proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting and any adjournment of the Annual General Meeting by following the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
10 In order for a Proxy appointment or instruction made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual available via www.
The message regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a Proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed Proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by Computershare Investor Services PLC ID 3RA50 by the latest time for receipt of Proxy appointments specified in Note 2 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to a Proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to him her by other means.
