Audit report on the Company financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Vodafone Group Plc In our opinion: We have audited the parent company financial statements of Vodafone Group Plc for the year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise the balance sheet and the related the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly notes 1 to 11.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United the information given in the directors report for the financial year for which Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of Vodafone Group Plc for the year ended 31 March 2010.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than by us: or the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the parent company we have not received all the information and explanations we require for financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom our audit.
Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the directors statement of responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Panos Kakoullis Senior Statutory Auditor Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London Scope of the audit of the financial statements United Kingdom An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the 18 May 2010 financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2010: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice : and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
118 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010
