Financials Audit report on the consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Vodafone Group Plc In our opinion the information given in the directors report for the financial We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Vodafone Group Plc for the year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the group financial statements.
consolidated statement of financial position, the consolidated statement of cash flows, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated Matters on which we are required to report by exception statement of changes in equity, and the related notes 1 to 32.
The financial reporting We have nothing to report in respect of the following: framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to Under the listing rules we are required to review: state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the directors statement contained within the directors report in relation to going permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than concern: and the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys report, or for the opinions we have formed.
compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the directors statement of responsibilities, the directors Other matter are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated Vodafone Group Plc for the year ended 31 March 2010 and on the information in the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial Panos Kakoullis Senior Statutory Auditor statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups London circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the United Kingdom reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the 18 May 2010 overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 73
