Notes to the Company financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the profit and loss account for the The separate financial statements of the Company are drawn up in accordance with period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items the Companies Act 2006 and UK GAAP.
carried at fair value are included in the profit and loss account for the period.
The preparation of Company financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and Borrowing costs assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure All borrowing costs are recognised in the profit and loss account in the period in of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Company financial statements which they are incurred.
and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying Taxation assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
both current and future periods.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that exist at the balance sheet As permitted by section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss date and that result in an obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax in the account of the Company is not presented in this annual report.
The deferred tax is measured at the rate expected to apply in the periods in financial statements are not intended to give a true and fair view of the profit or loss which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on the tax rates and laws or cash flows of the Company.
The Company has not published its individual cash that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Timing flow statement as its liquidity, solvency and financial adaptability are dependent on differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation the Group rather than its own cash flows.
computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the Company financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 Related it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets Party Disclosures and has not reported transactions with fellow Group undertakings.
and liabilities are not discounted.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 29 Financial Financial instruments Instruments: Disclosures and has not produced any disclosures required by that Financial assets and financial liabilities, in respect of financial instruments, are standard, as disclosures that comply with FRS 29 are available in the Vodafone Group recognised on the company balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to Plc annual report for the year ended 31 March 2010. the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Significant accounting policies Financial liabilities and equity instruments The Companys significant accounting policies are described below.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Company are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
An equity instrument is Accounting convention any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after The Company financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention deducting all of its liabilities and includes no obligation to deliver cash or other and in accordance with applicable accounting standards of the UK Accounting financial assets.
The accounting policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and Standards Board and pronouncements of the Urgent Issues Task Force.
equity instruments are set out below.
Investments Capital market and bank borrowings Shares in Group undertakings are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair value which is equal to cost at inception and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using The Company assesses investments for impairment whenever events or changes in the effective interest rate method, except where they are identified as a hedged item circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an investment may not be in a fair value hedge.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction recoverable.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the Company makes an costs and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised over the term of estimate of the recoverable amount.
If the recoverable amount of the cashthe borrowing.
generating unit is less than the value of the investment, the investment is considered to be impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is Equity instruments recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issuance costs.
For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the investment is disposed of or is determined Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in The Companys activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign equity, determined using the weighted average cost method, is included in the net exchange rates and interest rates.
profit or loss for the period.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Foreign currencies Board of directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates of exchange consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into the Companys functional Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the contract currency at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items date and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
The carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the Company designates certain derivatives as hedges of the change of fair value of rates prevailing on the initial transaction dates.
Non-monetary items measured in recognised assets and liabilities fair value hedges.
Hedge accounting is terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, no longer qualifies for hedge accounting or the Company chooses to end the hedging relationship.
120 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010
