Additional information Shareholder information Financial calendar for the 2011 financial year resident outside the UK and eurozone automatically receive dividends in pounds sterling by lodging UK bank account details but may elect to receive dividends in Interim management statement 23 July 2010 local currency into their bank account directly via our registrars global payments Half-year financial results announcement 9 November 2010 service.
co. uk for details and terms and conditions.
For dividend payments in euros, the sterling euro exchange rate will be determined Further details will be published at www.
com investor as they become by us shortly before the payment date in accordance with the Companys articles available.
Results announcements are available online at www.
we do not publish them in the press.
We will pay the ADS depositary, BNY Mellon, its dividend in US dollars.
The sterling Dividends US dollar exchange rate for this purpose will be determined by us up to ten New York Full details on the dividend amount per share can be found on page 40.
Set out below is and London business days prior to the payment date.
Cash dividends to ADS holders information relevant to the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010. will be paid by the ADS depositary in US dollars.
Ex-dividend date 2 June 2010 Further information about the dividend payments can be found at www.
Record date 4 June 2010 com dividends or, alternatively, please contact our registrars or the ADS depositary, Dividend reinvestment plan last election date 16 July 2010 1 as applicable, for further details.
Dividend payment date 6 August 2010 Note: Dividend reinvestment 1 Payment date for both ordinary shares and american depositary shares ADSs.
We offer a dividend reinvestment plan which allows holders of ordinary shares, who choose to participate, to use their cash dividends to acquire additional shares in the Dividend payment methods Company.
These are purchased on their behalf by the plan administrator through a Currently holders of ordinary shares and ADSs can: low cost dealing arrangement.
have cash dividends paid direct to a bank or building society account: or For ADS holders BNY Mellon maintains a Global BuyDIRECT Plan which is a direct elect to use the cash dividends to purchase more Vodafone ordinary shares under purchase and sale plan for depositary receipts with a dividend reinvestment facility.
the dividend reinvestment plan see below or, in the case of ADSs, have the dividends reinvested to purchase additional Vodafone ADSs.
Telephone share dealing ADS holders can, in addition to the above, have their cash dividends paid in the form A telephone share dealing service operated by our registrars is available for holders of of a cheque.
The service is available from 8.00 am to 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays, on telephone number 44 0 870 703 0084.
Detailed terms and Holders of ordinary shares: conditions are available on request by calling the above number.
resident in the UK automatically receive their dividends in pounds sterling provided that UK bank details have been provided to the Company: resident in the eurozone defined for this purpose as a country that has adopted the euro as its national currency automatically receive their dividends in euros provided that euro bank details have been provided to the Company: or Registrars and transfer office If private shareholders have any enquiries about their holding of ordinary shares, such as a change of address, change of ownership or dividend payments, they should contact our registrars at the address or telephone number below.
Computershare Investor Services PLC maintain the Companys share register and holders of ordinary shares can visit the registrars investor centre at www.
co. uk to view and update details of their shareholding.
ADS holders should address any queries or instructions regarding their holdings to the depositary bank for the Companys ADR programme at the address or telephone number below.
com shareowner ADS holders can view their account information, make changes and conduct many other transactions.
The Registrar Holders of ordinary shares resident in Ireland: Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare Investor Services Ireland Limited The Pavilions PO Box 9742 Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ, England Dublin 18, Ireland Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0198 Telephone: 0818 300 999 www.
co. uk contactus ADS depositary BNY Mellon BNY Mellon Shareowner Services PO Box 358516 Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516, USA Telephone: 1 800 233 5601 toll free or, for calls outside the USA, 1 201 680 6837 not toll free and enter company number 2160 Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.
com Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 125
