Further shareholder information Part A: Explanatory notes of principal changes to the Provision for employees on cessation of business Companys Articles of Association The 2006 Act provides that the powers of the directors of a company to make provision for a person employed or formerly employed by the company or any of its subsidiaries The Companys objects in connection with the cessation or transfer to any person of the whole or part of the The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are currently set out in the undertaking of the company or that subsidiary, may only be exercised by the directors Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association.
The Companys Memorandum if they are so authorised by the companys articles or by the company in general contains, among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the meeting.
The New Articles provide that the directors may exercise this power.
activities the Company is authorised to undertake.
This is drafted to give a wide scope.
Suspension of registration of share transfers The 2006 Act significantly reduces the constitutional significance of a companys The Current Articles permit the directors to suspend the registration of transfers.
The 2006 Act provides that a memorandum will record only the the 2006 Act share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
The power in names of subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take the Current Articles to suspend the registration of transfers is inconsistent with this in the company.
Under the 2006 Act the objects clause and all other provisions which requirement.
Accordingly, this power has been removed in the New Articles.
are contained in a companys memorandum, for existing companies at 1 October 2009, are deemed to be contained in the companys articles of association but the Voting by proxies on a show of hands company can remove these provisions by special resolution.
The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the 2006 Act so that it now provides that each proxy appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands Further the 2006 Act states that, unless a companys articles provide otherwise, a unless the proxy is appointed by more than one member in which case the proxy has companys objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for companies to have one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more objects clauses.
For this reason the Company is proposing to remove its objects members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the clause together with all other provisions of its Memorandum which, under the 2006 resolution.
The Current Articles have been amended to reflect these changes.
Act, are treated as forming part of the Companys articles from 1 October 2009.
Resolution 22.1 confirms the removal of these provisions.
As the effect of this Voting by corporate representatives Resolution will be to remove the statement currently in the Companys Memorandum The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the 2006 Act in order to enable of Association regarding limited liability, the New Articles also contain an express multiple representatives appointed by the same corporate member to vote in statement regarding the limited liability of shareholders.
different ways on a show of hands and a poll.
The New Articles remove provisions in the Current Articles dealing with voting by corporate representatives on the basis Articles which duplicate statutory provisions that they are dealt with in the 2006 Act.
Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions in the 2006 Act are in the main to be removed in the New Articles.
This is in line with the approach Conduct of electronic meetings advocated by the Government that statutory provisions should not be duplicated in Amendments made to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders Rights Regulations a companys constitution.
specifically provide for the holding and conducting of electronic meetings.
The Current Articles have been amended to reflect more closely the relevant provisions.
Change of name Under the Companies Act 1985, a company could only change its name by special Chairmans casting vote resolution.
Under the 2006 Act a company will be able to change its name by other The New Articles remove the provision giving the chairman a casting vote in the event means provided for by its articles.
To take advantage of this provision, the New of an equality of votes as this is no longer permitted under the 2006 Act.
Articles enable the directors to pass a resolution to change the Companys name.
The directors have no current plans to change the Companys name.
Notice of general meetings The Shareholders Rights Regulations amend the 2006 Act to require a company to Authorised share capital and unissued shares give 21 clear days notice of general meetings unless the company offers members The 2006 Act abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share an electronic voting facility and a special resolution reducing the period of notice to capital.
The New Articles reflect this.
Directors will still be limited as to the number of not less than 14 days has been passed.
Annual general meetings must be held on 21 shares they can allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the clear days notice.
The New Articles remove provisions in the Current Articles dealing 2006 Act, save in respect of employee share schemes.
with notice of general meetings on the basis that this is dealt with in the 2006 Act.
Redeemable shares Adjournments for lack of quorum Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to issue redeemable shares, it Under the 2006 Act, as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, general had to include in its articles the terms and manner of redemption.
The 2006 Act meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least 10 clear days after the enables directors to determine such matters provided they are so authorised by the original meeting.
The Current Articles have been changed to reflect this requirement.
The New Articles contain such an authorisation.
The Company has no plans to issue redeemable shares but if it did so the directors would need shareholders Voting record date authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
Under the 2006 Act, as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, a company must determine the right of members to vote at a general meeting by reference to Authority to purchase own shares and consolidate and sub-divide shares the register not more than 48 hours before the time for the holding of the meeting Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required specific enabling provisions in which, at the directors discretion, may not include days which are not working days.
its articles to purchase its own shares and to consolidate or sub-divide its shares as The Current Articles have been amended to reflect this requirement.
well as shareholder authority to undertake such action.
The Current Articles include these enabling provisions.
Under the 2006 Act a company will only require General shareholder authority to do any of these things.
It will no longer be necessary for Generally the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the New articles to contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly, the relevant enabling provisions Articles and in some areas to conform the language of the New Articles to that used have been removed in the New Articles.
in the model articles for public companies produced by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.
10 Vodafone Group Plc 2010 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting Part B: The Vodafone Share Incentive Plan the SIP If a participant withdraws his her Partnership Shares before the trustees have held them for three years, he she may forfeit the linked Matching Shares.
If the participant Constitution ceases to be employed within the minimum three year period or within such shorter The SIP is constituted by a trust deed.
Save to the extent required by the terms of the period as Directors may decide other than for a specified reason such as retirement, trust deed, the SIP will continue to be administered by the Board of directors of the redundancy or disability, his her Matching Shares may be forfeited.
Company or a duly authorised committee of the Board the Directors.
Eligibility Operation of the SIP All UK resident employees of the Company and its participating subsidiaries who On any occasion on which the Directors decide to operate the SIP, it may be operated have not less than 18 months continuous service or such shorter period as the to provide Free Shares and or Partnership Shares and if it is to provide Partnership Directors may decide must be eligible to participate in the SIP.
Other employees may Shares, Matching Shares may also be allocated to employees.
be eligible to participate in the SIP at the Directors discretion.
Free Shares SIP limits The employing companies will provide the trustees with funds to enable them to On any date, the aggregate number of new Shares which may be issued to the subscribe for and or purchase ordinary shares in the Company Shares which will trustees may not, when added to the number of new Shares allocated in the previous then be allocated to the eligible employees for free Free Shares.
The maximum 10 years under all employee share plans of the Company, exceed 10 per cent of the individual allocation of Free Shares in any tax year will be 3,000 or such other issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
amount as may be provided by the legislation from time to time.
For these purposes, Shares are allocated under option plans when the options are Any allocation of Free Shares may be linked to such individual, team, divisional or granted and under other plans when the Shares are issued.
For so long as it is regarded corporate performance as the Directors may decide and advise the eligible as best practice to do so, Shares transferred from treasury will be treated, for the employees before the start of the performance period.
purposes of this limit, as if they were newly issued.
Options which lapse cease to count.
No account is taken of Shares which are acquired by purchase rather than by The performance targets set for each unit must be broadly comparable and must not subscription except where such Shares were first issued to an employee trust for the contain any features which have the effect of concentrating the award on directors purpose of satisfying an option holders rights.
Dividends Free Shares must be held by the trustees for a minimum period of three years or for The SIP may provide that any dividends paid on the Free, Partnership or Matching such longer period not exceeding five years as the Directors may decide.
If a Shares will either be paid to the participants or re-invested in the purchase of participant ceases to be employed within the Group before the end of this period, his additional Shares to be held in the SIP for a period of three years.
her Free Shares must be withdrawn from the trust.
If the participant ceases to be employed within the minimum three year period or within such shorter period as the Voting rights Directors may decide other than for a specified reason such as retirement, Participants may direct the trustees how to exercise the voting rights attributable to redundancy or disability, his her Free Shares may be forfeited.
If the Free Shares are the Shares held on their behalf.
The trustees will not, however, exercise the voting withdrawn from the trust before the end of the five year period except in certain rights attributable to the Shares held in the trust except in accordance with the specified circumstances such as retirement, redundancy or disability, the participant participants instructions.
will incur an income tax liability.
Change of control, reorganisation etc.
Partnership Shares In the event of a general offer being made to the shareholders or a rights issue, If Partnership Shares are offered, an eligible employee may enter into an agreement participants will be able to direct the trustees how to act on their behalf.
with the Company to allocate up to the lower of 1,500 per tax year or 10 per cent of salary or any lower maximum the Company may set to subscribe for and or purchase Listing Shares Partnership Shares.
The agreement may provide for the Partnership Shares Application will be made to the London Stock Exchange for admission to the Official to be bought within 30 days of the day on which the deduction is made.
Alternatively, List of new Shares issued under the SIP.
Shares issued under the SIP will rank equally the agreement may provide for the deductions to be accumulated for a period not in all respects with existing issued Shares except for rights attaching to Shares by exceeding 12 months and for the Partnership Shares to be bought within 30 days of reference to a record date prior to the date of allotment.
Amendments A participant may withdraw his her Partnership Shares at any time but, if he she The Directors may make such amendments to the SIP as are necessary or desirable does so before the Partnership Shares have been held in the trust for five years, to obtain or retain the approval of HM Revenue & Customs or to take account of he she will incur an income tax liability.
The Directors may also make such amendments to the SIP as may be necessary or desirable to obtain or maintain favourable tax, Matching Shares exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or for any company in If the Directors decide that Partnership Shares will be offered in any period, they may the Group.
also decide to provide Matching Shares in the same period.
The employing companies will provide the trustees with funds to enable them to subscribe for and or purchase Except as described above or for amendments designed to ease the administration Shares Matching Shares which will then be allocated to the eligible employees up of the SIP, no amendment which is to the advantage of employees or participants to a maximum ratio of two Matching Shares for every Partnership Share.
may be made to those provisions dealing with eligibility, individual or plan limits or the basis upon which employees may participate in the SIP without the prior approval Matching Shares must be made available to all eligible employees on the same basis.
of the shareholders in general meeting.
Matching Shares must be held by the trustees for a minimum period of three years or for such longer period not exceeding five years as the Directors may decide.
If a participant ceases to be employed within the Group before the end of this period, his her Matching Shares must be withdrawn from the trust.
If the Shares are withdrawn from the trust before the end of the five year period except in certain specified circumstances such as retirement, redundancy or disability, the participant will incur an income tax liability.
Vodafone Group Plc 11 Further shareholder information continued Shareholder attendance, enquiries and information Registrars shareholder enquiries The Companys ordinary share register is maintained by: If you can attend You will find it helpful to bring this booklet with you to the Annual General Meeting Computershare Investor Services PLC so that you can refer to it at the meeting.
The Pavilions Bridgwater Road A map and directions to the meeting venue can be found on the back cover of this Bristol booklet.
On arrival, you should go to the shareholder registration desks in the foyer.
BS99 6ZZ England Please bring your admission card, attached to the Form of Proxy enclosed with this Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0198 or booklet if received in hard copy or a copy of the email notification of this booklet Fax: 44 0 870 703 6116 or if we communicate with you electronically, as this will greatly assist with the www.
co. uk contactus registration formalities.
Holders of ordinary shares who are resident in Ireland can contact the Companys Tea and coffee will be available from 10.00 a. m. Registrars directly at: For your personal safety and security there may be checks and bag searches of those Computershare Investor Services Ireland Limited attending the meeting.
It is recommended that you arrive a little early to allow time P. O.
Recording equipment, cameras and other items that might Dublin 18 interfere with the good order of the meeting will not be permitted in the venue.
Ireland Telephone: 0818 300999 Shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions relating to the business of www.
co. uk contactus the meeting.
In the refreshment room the Pickwick Suite, before and after the meeting, there will be a designated Customer Service area for shareholders who Any queries about the Annual General Meeting should be directed to the Companys have questions which relate to them as customers.
In addition, there will be a Registrars as detailed above.
Shareholder Helpdesk to deal with any administrative enquiries that you may have regarding your shareholding.
Dividend payments by direct credit The Company now pays cash dividends to holders of ordinary shares by direct credit If you cannot attend only.
In order to receive dividends directly into your account, you should ensure that The Annual General Meeting will be webcast live on the Companys website your payment instructions are registered with our Registrars see Manage your www.
com agm and subsequently a recording will be available on the shareholding online below.
For information on how to view the webcast, visit the website at any time from the date of this Notice.
Manage your shareholding online Holders of ordinary shares may view and update details of their shareholding and In order to vote your shares on the Resolutions, you need to register your Proxy dividend payment instructions, subject to passing an identity check, on the appointment and instructions, which you can do in a number of ways, detailed below.
You will need your 10 digit You are encouraged to choose electronic Proxy appointment and instructions.
Shareholder Reference Number which starts with the letter C or G and is printed on the Form of Proxy or email notification of this booklet if we communicate with The methods available are: you electronically.
by visiting our website, www.
com agm and following the Voting link.
Please ensure you have your Shareholder Reference Number SRN, PIN and Electronic addresses Control Number to hand.
These are shown on the Form of Proxy or the email Electronic addresses provided in this Notice of Annual General Meeting and the Form notification of this booklet if we communicate with you electronically : of Proxy are provided only for those purposes expressly stated.
by completing, dating and signing the Form of Proxy and returning it in the addressed envelope: or Annual Report by submitting a CREST message, if you are a CREST member.
Please see note 9 on The Companys 2010 Annual Report is available online at www.
com the Form of Proxy for details.
The report, and its individual sections, are also available as PDFs for download and printing.
All Proxy appointments and instructions, by whichever method you choose, must be received by our Registrars by not later than 11.00 a. m. on Friday, 23 July 2010.
If you appoint a Proxy, this will not prevent you from attending the Annual General Meeting in person, should you choose to do so.
Proxies and corporate representatives A shareholder that is a company or other organisation not having a physical presence cannot attend in person and must therefore appoint someone to represent it.
Company law provides for two alternative methods by which this can be done: the appointment of a Proxy described above or a corporate representative.
Shareholders considering the appointment of a corporate representative are recommended to check their legal position and also view the Companys Articles of Association available on www.
Corporate representatives seeking to attend the Annual General Meeting are recommended to pre-register with the Registrars and then arrive at the registration desks in good time before the start of the meeting, particularly if representing a number of different holdings.
Typically, this might need to be at least 30 minutes before the start of the meeting.
12 Vodafone Group Plc 2010 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting Disclaimers This document includes measures which have been derived from amounts calculated in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS but are not themselves IFRS measures.
Vodafone believes that these measures are useful and necessary to report as they are used by Vodafone for internal performance analysis and they facilitate comparability with other companies, although Vodafones measures may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
These measures should not be viewed as replacements for, but rather as complementary to the comparable GAAP measures.
Further information can be found under Additional information Non-GAAP information in Vodafone Group Plcs Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2010, which is available at www.
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to the Groups financial condition, results of operations and businesses and certain of the Groups plans and objectives.
In particular, such forward-looking statements include statements with respect to expectations regarding the Groups financial condition or results of operations contained within the Chief Executives review on page 3 of this document, the Groups 7% dividend per share growth target contained on page 3 and expectations for the Groups future performance generally: expectations regarding the operating environment and market conditions and trends, including customer mix and usage, competitive pressures and price trends: intentions and expectations regarding the development and launch of products, services and technologies introduced by Vodafone or by Vodafone in conjunction with third parties, including the Vodafone Money Transfer system: anticipated benefits to the Group from cost reduction or efficiency programmes, including the recently initiated 1 billion cost reduction programme: growth in customers and usage: growth in emerging markets, especially Turkey, India and Africa: expectations regarding revenue, adjusted operating profit, EBITDA margins, capital expenditure, free cash flow, costs and foreign exchange rates: expectations regarding capital intensity: and expectations regarding the integration or performance of current and future investments, associates, joint ventures and newly acquired businesses.
Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identified by their use of a date in the future or such words as will, anticipate, aims, could, may, should, expects, believes, intends, plans or targets.
By their nature, forward-looking statements are inherently predictive, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
The factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from these forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, general economic and political conditions in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates and changes to the associated legal, regulatory and tax environments: increased competition, from both existing competitors and new market entrants, including Mobile Virtual Network Operators: levels of investment in network capacity and the Groups ability to deploy new technologies, products and services in a timely manner, particularly data content and services: rapid changes to existing products and services and the inability of new products and services to perform in accordance with the Groups expectations, including as a result of third party or vendor marketing efforts: the ability of the Group to integrate new technologies, products and services with existing networks, technologies, products and services: the Groups ability to generate and grow revenue from both voice and non-voice services and achieve expected cost savings: a lower than expected impact of new or existing products, services or technologies on the Groups future revenue, cost structure and capital expenditure outlays: slower than expected customer growth, reduced customer retention, reductions or changes in customer spending and increased pricing pressure: the Groups ability to expand its spectrum position, win 3G and 4G allocations and realise expected synergies and benefits associated with 3G and 4G: the Groups ability to secure the timely delivery of high quality, reliable handsets, network equipment and other key products from suppliers: loss of suppliers, disruption of supply chains and greater than anticipated prices of new mobile handsets: changes in the costs to the Group of, or the rates the Group may charge for, terminations and roaming minutes: the Groups ability to realise expected benefits from acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures, franchises, brand licences or other arrangements with third parties, particularly those related to the development of data and internet services: acquisitions and divestments of Group businesses and assets and the pursuit of new, unexpected strategic opportunities which may have a negative impact on the Groups financial condition and results of operations: the Groups ability to integrate acquired business or assets and the imposition of any unfavourable conditions, regulatory or otherwise, on any pending or future acquisitions or dispositions: the extent of any future write-downs or impairment charges on the Groups assets, or restructuring charges incurred as a result of an acquisition or disposition: developments in the Groups financial condition, earnings and distributable funds and other factors that the Board of Directors takes into account in determining the level of dividends: the Groups ability to satisfy working capital requirements through borrowing in capital markets, bank facilities and operations: changes in exchange rates, including particularly the exchange rate of pounds sterling to the euro and the US dollar: changes in the regulatory framework in which the Group operates, including the commencement of legal or regulatory action seeking to regulate the Groups permitted charging rates: the impact of legal or other proceedings against the Group or other companies in the mobile communications industry: and changes in statutory tax rates and profit mix, the Groups ability to resolve open tax issues and the timing and amount of any payments in respect of tax liabilities.
Additional factors can be found under Performance Principal risk factors and uncertainties in Vodafone Group Plcs Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2010 which is available at www.
All subsequent written or oral forwardlooking statements attributable to the Company or any member of the Group or any persons acting on their behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above.
No assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements in this document will be realised.
Subject to compliance with applicable law and regulations, Vodafone does not intend to update these forward-looking statements and does not undertake any obligation to do so.
