Business of the Annual General Meeting The purpose of each of the Resolutions proposed at the Annual General Meeting If Resolution 19 is passed, this authority will expire on the earlier of the date of the is as follows: Companys Annual General Meeting in 2011 or 30 September 2011.
Resolution 1 Financial statements Resolution 20 Disapplication of pre-emption rights The first item of business is the requirement for shareholders to receive the Resolution 20 is proposed as a Special Resolution.
Companys accounts for the financial year which ended on 31 March 2010 together with the reports of the directors and the auditor.
If the directors wish to allot new shares and other equity securities, or sell treasury shares, for cash other than in connection with an employee share scheme, company Resolutions 2 to 14 Retirement and re-election of directors law requires that these shares are offered first to shareholders in proportion to their Under the Companys Articles of Association, all directors are required to retire and existing holdings.
submit themselves for re-election every three years.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles of Association, in the interests of good corporate governance, the The purpose of paragraph 20.1 is to authorise the directors to allot new shares directors have resolved that, each year, they will all retire voluntarily and those pursuant to the authority given by paragraph 19.1 of Resolution 19, or sell treasury wishing to serve again shall submit themselves for re-election by the shareholders.
shares, for cash a in connection with a pre-emptive offer or rights issue or Biographical details of all the directors who are proposed for re-election are set out b otherwise up to a nominal value of US$330,338,835, equivalent to 5 per cent of in the Companys Annual Report and are also available for viewing on the Companys the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 19 May 2010, in each case website www.
without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
Resolution 15 Final dividend This Resolution seeks shareholder approval for the final ordinary dividend The purpose of paragraph 20.2 is to authorise the directors to allot new shares recommended by the directors.
The directors are proposing a final dividend of pursuant to the authority given by paragraph 19.2 of Resolution 19, or sell treasury 5.65 pence per ordinary share.
An interim dividend of 2.66 pence per ordinary share shares, for cash in connection with a rights issue without the shares first being offered was paid on 5 February 2010, making a total dividend for the year of 8.31 pence per to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
This is in line with ordinary share.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 6 August 2010 to corporate governance guidelines.
shareholders on the ordinary register on 4 June 2010.
The Board considers the authority in Resolution 20 to be appropriate in order to allow Resolution 16 Remuneration Report the Company flexibility to finance business opportunities or to conduct a preIn accordance with Section 439 of the 2006 Act, the Board submits the Remuneration emptive offer or rights issue without the need to comply with the requirements of Report to a vote of shareholders.
The Remuneration Report is available to view in the the statutory pre-emption provisions.
com investor and a brief summary can be found on page 4 of this document.
The Board intends to adhere to the provisions in the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles not to allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis other than Resolutions 17 and 18 Auditors pursuant to a rights issue or pre-emptive offer in excess of an amount equal to 7.5 The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting at which per cent of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company within a rolling accounts are presented, to hold office until the end of the next such meeting.
3-year period without prior consultation with shareholders.
Resolution 17, which is recommended by the Audit Committee, proposes the re-appointment of the Companys existing auditors, Deloitte LLP.
Resolution 18 Resolution 21 Approval of market purchases of ordinary shares follows best practice in corporate governance by separately seeking authority for the Resolution 21 is proposed as a Special Resolution.
Audit Committee to determine their remuneration.
In certain circumstances it may be advantageous for the Company to purchase its Resolution 19 Authority to allot shares own shares.
Resolution 21 renews the authority granted to the Company to purchase The purpose of Resolution 19 is to renew the directors power to allot shares.
up to 5,266,936,201 ordinary shares until the Annual General Meeting in 2011 or 30 September 2011, whichever is earlier.
This represents 10 per cent of the ordinary The authority in paragraph 19.1 will allow the directors to allot new shares and grant shares in issue as at 19 May 2010 excluding shares held in treasury and the rights to subscribe for, or convert other securities into, shares up to a nominal value Companys exercise of this authority is subject to the stated upper and lower limits of US$2,006,451,886, which is equivalent to approximately 33 per cent of the total on the price payable.
issued ordinary share capital of the Company, exclusive of treasury shares, as at 19 May 2010.
Similar resolutions have been approved by shareholders at previous Annual General Meetings of the Company.
No shares have been purchased by the Company since the The authority in paragraph 19.2 will allow the directors to allot new shares and grant date of the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
While the Board currently has no plans for rights to subscribe for, or convert other securities into, shares only in connection with further share purchases, it wishes to retain the flexibility provided by Resolution 21. a rights issue up to a further nominal value of US$2,006,451,886, which is equivalent to approximately 33 per cent of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company, Pursuant to the 2006 Act, the Company can hold the shares which have exclusive of treasury shares, as at 19 May 2010.
This is in line with corporate been repurchased as treasury shares and resell them for cash, cancel them, either governance guidelines.
immediately or at a point in the future, or use them for the purposes of its employee share schemes.
The directors believe that it is desirable for the Company to have this At 19 May 2010, the Company held 5,139,934,254 treasury shares which represents choice and therefore intend to hold any shares purchased under this authority as 9.76 per cent of the total number of ordinary shares in issue, excluding treasury shares, treasury shares.
Holding the repurchased shares as treasury shares will give the at that date.
Company the ability to resell or transfer them in the future, and so provide the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
No There are no present plans to undertake a rights issue or to allot new shares other dividends are paid on and no voting rights attach to treasury shares.
Any treasury than to fulfil the Companys obligations under its executive and employee share shares sold by the Company will count towards the number of shares which, plans.
The directors consider it desirable to have the maximum flexibility permitted if Resolution 20 is passed, may be issued without first offering them to by corporate governance guidelines to respond to market developments and to existing shareholders.
enable allotments to take place to finance business opportunities as they arise.
If the directors exercised this authority then all the directors would submit themselves for re-election by the shareholders at the following Annual General Meeting as indeed they do each year in the interests of good corporate governance.
8 Vodafone Group Plc 2010 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting As the existing shareholder approval to purchase shares expires at the Annual Resolution 24 Share Incentive Plan General Meeting on 27 July 2010, purchases after that date are subject to renewed The Vodafone Share Incentive Plan the SIP expires on 27 July 2010.
Resolution 24 shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board will use this authority amends the rules to permit the continued operation of the SIP up to 27 July 2020. only after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at Certain other updating amendments which do not require shareholder approval are the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall being made at the same time.
As before, the directors wish to have flexibility to extend position of the Company.
The Board will only purchase such shares after taking into the benefits of the SIP to employees of the Group working outside the UK and the account the effects on earnings per share excluding items not related to underlying Resolution gives the directors authority to do this.
A summary of the SIP amended business performance and the benefit for shareholders.
as proposed can be found in Part B of the explanatory notes on page 11 of this document The Vodafone Share Incentive Plan.
A copy of the SIP marked to show The total number of warrants and options to subscribe for shares issued by the all of the changes being proposed in Resolution 24 is available for inspection as set Company outstanding at 19 May 2010 was 255,584,699.
This represents 0.49 per out in Notes 5 and 6 on page 7 of this document.
cent of the issued share capital at that date excluding treasury shares.
If the Company was to purchase the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to Your directors are recommending that shareholders vote FOR Resolutions this Resolution, then the total number of warrants and options to subscribe for shares 1 to 24 as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
issued by the Company outstanding at 19 May 2010 would represent 0.54 per cent of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
Resolution 22 Articles of Association Resolution 22 is proposed as a Special Resolution.
It is proposed in this Resolution to adopt new articles of association the New Articles in order to update the Companys current Articles of Association the Current Articles primarily to take account of the coming into force of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations and the implementation of the remaining parts of the 2006 Act.
The Resolution adopting the New Articles will only become effective from the end of this Annual General Meeting or any adjournment thereof.
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised in Part A of the explanatory notes on page 10 of this document Explanatory notes of principal changes to the Companys Articles of Association.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the 2006 Act, the Shareholders Rights Regulations or the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, or conform the language of the New Articles with that used in the model articles for public companies set out in The Companies Model Articles Regulations 2008 have not been noted in Part A of the explanatory notes of this document.
A copy of the New Articles marked to show all the changes being proposed in Resolution 22 is available for inspection as set out in Notes 5 and 6 on page 7 of this document.
Resolution 23 Notice of general meetings Resolution 23 is proposed as a Special Resolution.
Changes made to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders Rights Regulations increase the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless certain requirements are satisfied.
Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice without obtaining shareholder approval.
The Company would like to preserve this ability, as it did at its last Annual General Meeting.
In order to be able to do so, shareholders must have approved the calling of meetings on 14 clear days notice.
The approval will be effective until the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2011.
It is intended that this authority will be sought on an annual basis.
The shorter notice period of 14 clear days will not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
The Company meets the requirements for electronic voting under the Shareholders Rights Regulations in order to be able to call a general meeting on 14 clear days notice.
