Financials Critical accounting estimates The Group prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS as Changing the assumptions selected by management, in particular the discount rate issued by the IASB and IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the application of and growth rate assumptions used in the cash flow projections, could significantly which often requires judgements to be made by management when formulating the affect the Groups impairment evaluation and hence results.
Groups financial position and results.
Under IFRS, the directors are required to adopt those accounting policies most appropriate to the Groups circumstances for the The Groups review includes the key assumptions related to sensitivity in the cash purpose of presenting fairly the Groups financial position, financial performance and flow projections.
Further details are provided in note 10 to the consolidated cash flows.
In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often required in Revenue recognition and presentation respect of items where the choice of specific policy, accounting estimate or assumption to be followed could materially affect the reported results or net asset Arrangements with multiple deliverables position of the Group should it later be determined that a different choice would be In revenue arrangements including more than one deliverable, the deliverables are more appropriate.
assigned to one or more separate units of accounting and the arrangement consideration is allocated to each unit of accounting based on its relative fair value.
Management considers the accounting estimates and assumptions discussed below to be its critical accounting estimates and, accordingly, provides an explanation of Determining the fair value of each deliverable can require complex estimates due to each below.
the nature of the goods and services provided.
The Group generally determines the fair value of individual elements based on prices at which the deliverable is regularly The discussion below should also be read in conjunction with the Groups disclosure sold on a standalone basis after considering volume discounts where appropriate.
of significant IFRS accounting policies which is provided in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, Significant accounting policies.
Presentation: gross versus net When deciding the most appropriate basis for presenting revenue or costs of revenue, Management has discussed its critical accounting estimates and associated both the legal form and substance of the agreement between the Group and disclosures with the Companys Audit Committee.
its business partners are reviewed to determine each partys respective role in the transaction.
Impairment reviews IFRS requires management to undertake an annual test for impairment of indefinite Where the Groups role in a transaction is that of principal, revenue is recognised on lived assets and, for finite lived assets, to test for impairment if events or changes in a gross basis.
This requires revenue to comprise the gross value of the transaction circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
billed to the customer, after trade discounts, with any related expenditure charged as an operating cost.
Impairment testing is an area involving management judgement, requiring assessment as to whether the carrying value of assets can be supported by the net Where the Groups role in a transaction is that of an agent, revenue is recognised on present value of future cash flows derived from such assets using cash flow a net basis with revenue representing the margin earned.
projections which have been discounted at an appropriate rate.
In calculating the net present value of the future cash flows, certain assumptions are required to be made Taxation in respect of highly uncertain matters including managements expectations of: The Groups tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree growth in EBITDA, calculated as adjusted operating profit before depreciation and of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot amortisation: be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority timing and quantum of future capital expenditure: or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these long term growth rates: and items may give rise to material profits, losses and or cash flows.
the selection of discount rates to reflect the risks involved.
The complexity of the Groups structure following its geographic expansion makes The Group prepares and approves formal five year management plans for its the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
The resolution of issues operations, which are used in the value in use calculations.
In certain developing is not always within the control of the Group and it is often dependent on the markets the fifth year of the management plan is not indicative of the long-term efficiency of the legal processes in the relevant taxing jurisdictions in which the future performance as operations may not have reached maturity.
Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in operations, the Group extends the plan data for an additional five year period.
respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result there can be substantial differences For businesses where the five year management plans are used for the Groups value between the tax charge in the consolidated income statement and tax payments.
in use calculations, a long-term growth rate into perpetuity has been determined as the lower of: Significant items on which the Group has exercised accounting judgement include a provision in respect of an enquiry from UK HMRC with regard to the CFC tax legislation the nominal GDP rates for the country of operation: and see note 29 to the consolidated financial statements, litigation with the Indian tax the long-term compound annual growth rate in EBITDA in years six to ten authorities in relation to the acquisition of Vodafone Essar see note 29 to the estimated by management.
consolidated financial statements and recognition of a deferred tax asset in respect of the losses arising following the agreement of German tax loss claims see note 6 For businesses where the plan data is extended for an additional five years for the of the consolidated financial statements.
The amounts recognised in the Groups value in use calculations, a long-term growth rate into perpetuity has been consolidated financial statements in respect of each matter are derived from the determined as the lower of: Groups best estimation and judgement as described above.
However the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these items means eventual resolution could the nominal GDP rates for the country of operation: and differ from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Groups results and the compound annual growth rate in EBITDA in years nine to ten of the cash flows.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 71 Critical accounting estimates continued Recognition of deferred tax assets Estimation of useful life The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is more likely than not The useful life used to amortise intangible assets relates to the future performance that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the future against which of the assets acquired and managements judgement of the period over which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted.
Where the temporary economic benefit will be derived from the asset.
The basis for determining the useful differences related to losses, the availability of the losses to offset against forecast life for the most significant categories of intangible assets is as follows: taxable profits is also considered.
Licences and spectrum fees Recognition therefore involves judgement regarding the future financial performance The estimated useful life is generally the term of the licence unless there is a of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has presumption of renewal at negligible cost.
Using the licence term reflects the period been recognised.
over which the Group will receive economic benefit.
For technology specific licences with a presumption of renewal at negligible cost, the estimated useful economic life Historical differences between forecast and actual taxable profits have not resulted reflects the Groups expectation of the period over which the Group will continue to in material adjustments to the recognition of deferred tax assets.
receive economic benefit from the licence.
The economic lives are periodically reviewed taking into consideration such factors as changes in technology.
Historically any changes to economic lives have not been material following these reviews.
Business combinations The recognition of business combinations requires the excess of the purchase price Customer bases of acquisitions over the net book value of assets acquired to be allocated to the The estimated useful life principally reflects managements view of the average assets and liabilities of the acquired entity.
The Group makes judgements and economic life of the customer base and is assessed by reference to customer churn estimates in relation to the fair value allocation of the purchase price.
An increase in churn rates may lead to a reduction in the estimated useful life portion is positive it is recognised as goodwill and if negative, it is recognised in the and an increase in the amortisation charge.
Historically changes to the estimated income statement.
useful lives have not had a significant impact on the Groups results and financial position.
Capitalised software Goodwill The useful life is determined by management at the time the software is acquired and The amount of goodwill initially recognised as a result of a business combination is brought into use and is regularly reviewed for appropriateness.
For computer dependent on the allocation of the purchase price to the fair value of the identifiable software licences, the useful life represents managements view of expected benefits assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
The determination of the fair value of the over which the Group will receive benefits from the software, but not exceeding the assets and liabilities is based, to a considerable extent, on managements judgement.
For unique software products controlled by the Group, the life is based on historical experience with similar products as well as anticipation of future events Allocation of the purchase price affects the results of the Group as finite lived which may impact their life such as changes in technology.
Historically changes in intangible assets are amortised, whereas indefinite lived intangible assets, including useful lives have not resulted in material changes to the Groups amortisation charge.
goodwill, are not amortised and could result in differing amortisation charges based on the allocation to indefinite lived and finite lived intangible assets.
Property, plant and equipment On transition to IFRS the Group elected not to apply IFRS 3, Business combinations, Property, plant and equipment also represent a significant proportion of the asset retrospectively as the difficulty in applying these requirements to the large number base of the Group being 12.9% 2009: 12.6% of the Groups total assets.
Therefore the of business combinations completed by the Group from incorporation through to estimates and assumptions made to determine their carrying value and related 1 April 2004 exceeded any potential benefits.
Goodwill arising before the date of depreciation are critical to the Groups financial position and performance.
transition to IFRS, after adjusting for items including the impact of proportionate consolidation of joint ventures, amounted to 78,753 million.
Estimation of useful life The charge in respect of periodic depreciation is derived after determining an If the Group had elected to apply the accounting for business combinations estimate of an assets expected useful life and the expected residual value at the end retrospectively it may have led to an increase or decrease in goodwill and increase in of its life.
Increasing an assets expected life or its residual value would result in a licences, customer bases, brands and related deferred tax liabilities recognised reduced depreciation charge in the consolidated income statement.
The useful lives and residual values of Group assets are determined by management Finite lived intangible assets at the time the asset is acquired and reviewed annually for appropriateness.
The lives are based on historical experience with similar assets as well as anticipation of future Other intangible assets include the Groups aggregate amounts spent on the events which may impact their life such as changes in technology.
Furthermore acquisition of 2G and 3G licences, computer software, customer bases, brands and network infrastructure is only depreciated over a period that extends beyond development costs.
These assets arise from both separate purchases and from the expiry of the associated licence under which the operator provides acquisition as part of business combinations.
telecommunications services if there is a reasonable expectation of renewal or an alternative future use for the asset.
On the acquisition of mobile network operators the identifiable intangible assets may include licences, customer bases and brands.
The fair value of these assets is Historically changes in useful lives and residual values have not resulted in material determined by discounting estimated future net cash flows generated by the asset changes to the Groups depreciation charge.
where no active market for the assets exist.
The use of different assumptions for the expectations of future cash flows and the discount rate would change the valuation of the intangible assets.
Provisions and contingent liabilities The Group exercises judgement in measuring and recognising provisions and the The relative size of the Groups intangible assets, excluding goodwill, makes the exposures to contingent liabilities related to pending litigation or other outstanding judgements surrounding the estimated useful lives critical to the Groups financial claims subject to negotiated settlement, mediation, arbitration or government position and performance.
regulation, as well as other contingent liabilities see note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
Judgement is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a At 31 March 2010 intangible assets, excluding goodwill, amounted to 22,420 million pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range 2009: 20,980 million and represented 14.3% 2009: 13.7% of the Groups of the financial settlement.
Because of the inherent uncertainty in this evaluation total assets.
process, actual losses may be different from the originally estimated provision.
72 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010
