136 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Other information Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Glossary 2006 Act The Companies Act of 2006, the primary source of UK company law Board The Board of Directors of The Weir Group PLC Combined Code The Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 Company The Weir Group PLC Director A director of The Weir Group PLC EBIT Earnings before interest and tax EBITA Earnings before interest, tax and intangibles amortisation EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and intangibles amortisation EBT Employees benefit trust Emerging markets Asia-Pacific, South America, Africa and Middle East EPS Earnings per share ESH Environmental, safety and health Free cash flow Net cash flow generated from continuing operations excluding the cash impact in relation to acquisitions, disposals and net proceeds from repayments of borrowings Group The Company together with its subsidiaries IASB International Accounting Standards Board IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards Independent auditors Ernst & Young LLP Input Orders received from customers like-for-like On a consistent basis, excluding the impact of current year acquisitions LTA Lost Time Accident resulting in lost time of more than 4 hours low carbon industries Nuclear, wind, hydro, solar, biomass and geothermal industries Non-GAAP measure A measure of historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows which is adjusted to exclude or include amounts that would not be so adjusted in the most comparable measure prescribed by IFRS OE Original equipment OEM Original equipment manufacturer Operating margin Operating profit including our share of results of joint ventures divided by revenue Ordinary shares The ordinary shares in the capital of the Company of 12.5p each Registrar Computershare Investor Services plc ROCE Return on capital employed - calculated as EBIT for the period divided by average net assets excluding pension deficit RPI UK Retail Prices Index subsidiary An entity that is controlled, either directly or indirectly, by the Company TSR Total Shareholder Return comprising dividends paid on ordinary shares and the increase or decrease in the market price of ordinary shares UK GAAP United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Weir Production System Lean Score The Scores range from 0-40% means the site needs significant improvement, action is required, 41%-66% means relatively good practice but regular follow up and further improvements are required and 67%-100% is world class practice where process has taken root and needs to be maintained and improved Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report Market overview Market overview Market overview The Weir Group PLC Financial Market conditions improved in 2010 The North American upstream marDemand for original equipment for the conunderpinned by strong demand for comket experienced a substantial rebound ventional power market was strong in Asia Operational excellence This map is illustrative, but not fully definitive of our locations.
Calendar modities, particularly from emerging marin on-shore horizontal drilling with sigbut weak in Europe and North America.
kets and a growing sector confidence.
nificant investment in existing and new The Chinese nuclear market represented Most mothballed mines were re-started shale fields, requiring more intensive the majority of global nuclear new build, and increased activity was evident in the fracturing techniques.
Average horizonalthough procurement began for the first two Canadian oil sands.
Increases in capital tal rig counts increased 81% on 2009. new US nuclear plants in 25 years.
Hydro expenditure were announced by some International shale opportunities started and wind markets grew as demand for customers with a number of megato gain momentum in China, Europe and renewable power increased.
Existing fossil projects likely to get underway in 2011 12 Australia.
Downstream customer activity and nuclear plants postponed non-essential Ex-dividend date for final dividend principally across South America and the remained low while Middle East services maintenance, although new build delays will 4 May 2011 Asia-Pacific region.
market rebounded off 2009 lows in the increase potential for life extension projects.
Record date for final dividend 6 May 2011 Shareholders on the register at this date will receive the dividend Annual general meeting 4 May 2011 Weir Minerals is the global leader in the Weir Oil & Gas designs and manufacWeir Power & Industrial designs, manufacprovision of slurry handling equipment tures pumps and ancillary equipment for tures and provides aftermarket support for and associated spare parts for abrasive the global upstream and downstream specialist and critical-service rotating and Final dividend paid high wear applications.
Mining and minoil and gas markets and provides subflow control equipment mainly to the global 2 June 2011 erals is the divisions largest sector but stantial aftermarket service and support.
The division includes valve it has aligned product sales into niche The upstream operation specialises in operations: specialist pump, hydro and markets, including oil sands and flue gas high-pressure well service pumps and steam turbine businesses and  equipment.
Products related flow control equipment along ket operations in Europe, North America, include pumps, hydrocyclones, valves, with repairs, parts and service of presAsia Pacific, Middle East, and South Africa.
dewatering equipment and wear resistant sure control and upstream rotating equipThree facilities hold nuclear certification The Weir Group is well established in all three of our 2010 revenue by market linings and following the Linatex acquiment.
Downstream focuses on design making the business one of a few globally, chosen markets: Minerals, Oil & Gas and Power & Industrial.
sition rubber products and screenand manufacture of centrifugal pumps, capable of providing safety critical valves Minerals ing machines.
The partnership with KHD mainly for the refining industry.
Principal into the nuclear islands of the 3rd and 4th 42% Throughout 2010, we have used our superb manufacturing Oil & Gas Humboldt extends the reach into high operations are in North America, Europe generation nuclear power stations.
The platform and resilient business model to deliver a perform- 33% pressure grinding rollers, a new breakand the Middle East, with an expanding BDK acquisition expanded the valve portPower ance that demonstrates our agility to respond quickly and through in milling technology.
geographic footprint in Asia Pacific and folio, while American Hydro and Ynfiniti 13% Industrial South America.
Engineering Services added to the renewabenefit from changing market conditions.
Other 5% Customer focus is a precondition for sustainable growth.
Recognising this we will continue to extend our position in the minerals, oil and gas and power sectors, all of which are high growth, long cycle markets with positive fundamentals.
This Facts and figures Facts and figures Facts and figures strategy is underpinned by our three principal drivers of growth - Innovation, Cautionary statement No.
of people c2,900 Collaboration and Global Capability - and will be delivered through organic This annual report contains forward-looking No.
of businesses 13 growth supplemented by skillfully integrated, targeted acquisitions with continued statements with respect to the financial con- 2010 order input 984m 2010 order input 626m 2010 order input 268m investment in technology, infrastructure and people to grow our market share dition, operations and performance of the 2010 revenue 901m 2010 revenue 462m 2010 revenue 246m and our installed base of original equipment.
By their nature, these statements Addressable market 3.2bn Addressable market 2.9bn Addressable power market 3.9bn involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticiDesigned by Design Motive pated.
The forward-looking statements reflect Printed by Royle Print Major customers Major customers Major customers Expanding our geographic footprint knowledge and information available at the It is important that our annual report is produced in an environmentally Alcoa Baker Hughes Canadian Government Public Works date of preparation of this annual report and responsible manner, including the sourcing of materials.
The annual report AMEC Cal Frac CNPEC & CNEIC is printed in the UK by Royle Print Ltd, a Carbon Neutral printing company, 2010 saw five value enhancing acquisitions join the Weir family.
These five businesses will contribute positively to 2011, expand our the Company undertakes no obligation to upusing vegetable-based inks.
Anglo American Enerflow Industries EADS emerging market presence and further the strategy of each division.
NothBarrick Gold Corporation Frac Tech Services EDF The material is Revive Pure Uncoated which is certified as 100% recycled by ing in this annual report should be construed the Forest Stewardship Council.
The printer and paper manufacturing mill both BHP Billiton Schlumberger Eskom March 2010 September 2010 October 2010 November 2010 December 2010 as a profit forecast.
have ISO 14001 accreditation for environmental management.
Petroleum Certification Linatex, based in BDK, an Indian valve American Hydro, in Ynfiniti Engineering Chinalco Shazand Arak Oil Refining Co Hyundai Heavy Industries Co Ltd Services, PCS, in Malaysia is the global manufacturer, extends Pennsylvania USA, Services YES, operating Freeport McMoran Copper & Gold Stewart & Stevenson LLC Loftyman Engineering Adelaide, Australia is leader in natural rubber our emerging market manufactures turbine principally in Spain and Registered office & company number Rio Tinto Superior Well Services RCM Technologies Inc expanding our Oil & Gas products for use in highfootprint and product components and with Portugal, strengthens Clydesdale Bank Exchange Vale Inco Trican Well Services Toshiba Corporate presence in the newer oil wear mine applications portfolio and provides our existing service our position in the fast- 20 Waterloo Street Xstrata Weatherford International Ltd United States Government and gas producing area which are highly complea substantial low cost skills, will accelerate growing wind and solar Glasgow G2 6DB of Australia and South mentary to our existing manufacturing capability our development in markets.
established and new Registered in Scotland hydro power markets.
Company Number 2934 The Weir Group PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010 The Weir Group PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010 The Weir Group PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report The Weir Way The drivers of growth The Group has a strong operating platform to drive growth Contents both through organic development and value enhancing acquisitions.
We also have a clear and focused strategy Directors report to build our functional capabilities and prioritise product Inside front cover innovation, collaboration and global capabilities as key Financial highlights 1 enablers of growth in our chosen end markets, along with Chairmans statement 2 an increased commitment to research and development Chief Executives review 4 and investment in sales and engineering resources.
Driving growth The Weir Way 8 Key Performance Indicators 14 Operational review 16 Financial review 28 Board of directors 32 InnovatIve 1 solutIons Principal risks & uncertainties 34 Corporate governance report 37 Innovation is at the heart of our processes.
Our global engineering Remuneration report 44 teams work to ensure that products continually deliver longer plant Sustainability report 52 life, extend maintenance cycles, reduce downtime and lower whole-life Other statutory information 67 operating costs.
As well as increasing our research and development spend, we strongly believe that innovation goes beyond technological Financial statements and aspects.
Innovation is also about being proactive and creative in other information delivering operational improvement and increasing customer focus.
Independent auditors report 69 Consolidated income statement 70 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 71 CollaboratIve Consolidated balance sheet 72 2 MIndset Consolidated cash flow statement 73 We believe we can achieve much more when we work together across businesses, divisions, markets and regions to solve problems Consolidated statement of changes in equity 74 and exploit market opportunities.
Weir people are willing and able to Notes to the Group work in partnership with each other, as well as with our customers and financial statements 75 partners and during 2010 we further optimised our ability to operate Independent auditors report 122 to best effect across divisions and regions.
Company balance sheet 123 Notes to the Company financial statements 124 Principal companies of Global the Group 134 The Weir Group PLC 3 Shareholder information 135 CaPabIlItY Clydesdale Bank Exchange 20 Waterloo Street Glossary 136 Excellent We remain committed to going where our customers are, from the Glasgow G2 6DB, Scotland Inside back cover Financial calendar Engineering most challenging oil production environment, to the emerging and Cautionary statement Solutions power and energy markets and this commitment brings extensive Telephone: 44 0 141 637 7111 opportunities for us to further internationalise our products and Facsimile: 44 0 141 221 9789 services.
In 2010 we made considerable progress in leveraging our presence in some of the fastest growing emerging markets.
