135 Shareholder information Shareholder enquiries Website The Companys registrars are: The Companys website, www.
co. uk, provides information including: Computershare Investor Services PLC news, updates, press releases and regulatory announcements: The Pavilions Bridgwater Road investor information, including the full annual report, investor presentations and Bristol, BS99 6ZZ share price information: Website: www.
co. uk contactus details of the 2011 annual general meeting including the notice of the annual general meeting: Telephone: 0870 707 1402 the Code of Conduct: Shareholder enquiries relating to shareholding, dividend payments, change of address, loss of share certificate, etc.
should be addressed to Computershare.
biographies of the members of the Board and the Group Executive: and further information on the Companys corporate governance policies and corpoInvestor Centre rate responsibility.
Investor Centre is a free, secure share management website provided by our registrars.
This service allows you to view your share portfolio and see the latest Share dealing services market price of your shares, check your dividend payment and tax information, Computershare provide Weir Group shareholders with a quick and easy way to buy change your address, update payment instructions and receive your shareholder or sell Weir Group shares on the London Stock Exchange.
To take advantage of this service, please log in at www.
co. uk and enter your Shareholder Reference Number SRN Internet share dealing commission is 0.5%, subject to a minimum charge of 15. and Company Code.
This information can be found on your share certificate or tax In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
There is no dividend voucher.
need to open an account in order to deal.
Real time dealing is available during market hours.
In addition, there is a convenient facility to place your order outside Dividends payment direct to banks of market hours.
Up to 90 day limit orders are available for sales.
To access the service, log on to www-uk.
Dividends can be paid direct to your bank or building society account using the Shareholders should have their SRN available.
The SRN appears on share Bankers Automated Clearing Service BACSTEL-IP.
This means that your dividend certificates and tax dividend vouchers.
A bank debit card will be required for will be in your account on the same day the Company makes the payment.
Please note that, at present, this service is only available to shareholders voucher will be posted directly to your own address or, if you have elected to receive in certain European jurisdictions.
Please refer to the Computershare website e-mail notifications, you will be sent an e-mail advising you that your tax voucher is for an up-to-date list of these countries.
If you wish your dividends to be paid directly into your bank account, you should apply online at www.
co. uk or Telephone share dealing commission is 1%, subject to a minimum charge of 25. contact our registrars for a Dividend Mandate Form.
The Company encourages you In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
You can contact to have your dividends paid direct to a bank or building society.
Shareholders should have their SRN ready when making the call.
The SRN appears on share certificates and tax dividend vouchers.
A bank debit card will be required for purchases.
Detailed terms and conditions are Capital gains tax available on request by telephoning 0870 707 1402.
Please note this service is, at For the purpose of capital gains tax, the market value of an ordinary share of The Weir present, only available to shareholders resident in the UK and Ireland.
This market value has been adjusted to take account of the sub-division of the share capital whereby each ordinary share of These services are offered on an execution only basis and subject to the applicable 25p was sub-divided into two ordinary shares of 12.5p each on 28 June 1993.
Computershare Investor Services PLC is authorised and issues of ordinary shares took place in April 1987 at 157p per share on the basis of regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
one new ordinary share for every seven ordinary shares held, in July 1990 at 250p per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every five ordinary shares held This is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold shares in The Weir Group PLC.
and in September 1994 at 252p per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for Shareholders who are unsure of what action to take should obtain independent every four ordinary shares held.
Share values may go down as well as up which may result in a shareholder receiving less than he she originally invested.
Shareholder communications Voting Following a change to company law and subsequent shareholder approval at the 2007 annual general meeting, shareholder documents are only sent in paper format Information on how you can vote electronically can be obtained through our registrars to shareholders who have elected to receive documents in this way.
This approach by visiting www.
enables the Company to reduce printing and distribution costs and its impact on the environment.
Shareholders who have not elected to receive paper copies are sent a notification whenever shareholder documents are published to advise them how to access the documents via the Group website at www.
Shareholders may also choose to receive this notification via email with a link to the relevant page on the website.
Shareholders who wish to receive email notification should register online at www.
co. uk using your Shareholder Reference Number.
This service is provided in conjunction with our registrars, Computershare.
