74 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 31 January 2010 30 PRINCIPAL SuBSIDIARIeS Wholly-owned subsidiaries of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Principal activity Bos Brothers Fruit and Vegetables BV Produce wholesaler Farmers Boy Limited Manufacturer and distributor of fresh food products Farock Insurance Company Limited Captive insurer Neerock Limited Fresh meat processor Wm Morrison Produce Limited Produce packer Safeway Limited Holding company Rathbone Kear Limited Baker Optimisation Developments Limited Property development Wholly-owned subsidiaries of Safeway Limited Safeway Overseas Limited Grocery retailer Safeway Stores Limited Grocery retailer All of the above companies are registered in England and Wales except Bos Brothers Fruit and Vegetables BV which is incorporated in the Netherlands and Farock Insurance Company Limited which is incorporated in the Isle of Man.
The principal area of trading for all the above companies is the United Kingdom apart from Bos Brothers Fruit and Vegetables BV and Safeway Overseas Limited who also trade in the rest of Europe.
During the year the Company has also entered into a Joint Venture, with The Great Steward of Scotland Dumfries House Trust, to form The Morrisons Farm at Dumfries House Limited, whose principal activity is to farm 700 acres of agricultural land located on the Dumfries House Estate near Cumnock in Ayrshire, Scotland.
This has been accounted for as a Joint Venture in accordance with IFRS, however, as the results are not material to the Group, no further disclosure has been made of the accounting policies within the consolidated financial statements.
In addition to the above, the Company has a number of other subsidiary companies, particulars of which will be annexed to the next annual return.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010 75 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Company financial statements 52 weeks ended 31 January 2010 under UK GAAP a Financial assets CoMPany aCCounting PoLiCieS i Trade and other debtors: Trade debtors are carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Provision is made when Basis of preparation there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to recover These separate financial statements of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC balances in full, with the charge being recognised in the profit and loss the Company have been prepared on a going concern basis under the account.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is historic cost convention, except for share-based payments and derivative assessed as being remote.
financial instruments, which are measured at fair value, and pension scheme liabilities that are measured using actuarial valuations and in ii Cash: Cash includes cash-in-hand, cash-at-bank and bank overdrafts accordance with applicable accounting standards under UK GAAP and together with short-term, highly-liquid investments that are readily the Companies Act 2006. convertible into known amounts of cash, with an insignificant risk of a change in value, within three months from the date of acquisition.
In the The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing balance sheet bank overdrafts are presented within current liabilities.
with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
b Financial liabilities Trade and other creditors: Trade and other creditors are stated at cost.
accounting reference date The accounting period of the Company ends on the Sunday falling between c Derivative financial instruments 29 January and 4 February each year.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value, which normally equates to cost, and are remeasured at fair value through profit investments or loss.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
i Cash flow hedges Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when Fixed assets they hedge the Companys exposure to variability in cash flows that are Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include directly attributable or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction.
Annual reviews are made of estimated useful lives and material residual values.
To minimise the risk from potential movements in energy prices, the Company has energy price contracts which are designated as cash Depreciation flow hedges.
The policy of the Company is to provide depreciation at rates which are calculated to write off the cost less residual value of tangible fixed assets Derivatives are reviewed quarterly for effectiveness.
Where a derivative on a straight line basis.
The rates applied are: financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or highly probable forecast transaction, Freehold land 0% the effective part of any gain or loss on the movement in fair value of the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity through the Freehold buildings 2.5% statement of total recognised gains and losses STRGL.
Leasehold improvements Over the shorter of lease period and 2.5% The gain or loss on any ineffective part of the hedge is immediately Plant, equipment, 1433% recognised in the profit and loss account within cost of sales.
If a hedge of fixtures and vehicles a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial Assets under construction 0% asset or liability, the associated cumulative gains or losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified into the profit and loss account Fixed assets are reviewed for indications of impairment when events or when the transaction occurs.
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
This is performed for each income generating unit, which in Capital management the case of a supermarket is an individual retail outlet.
If there are The capital management policy of the Company is consistent with that indications of possible impairment then a test is performed on the asset of the Group set out in note 19. affected to assess its recoverable amount against carrying value.
An asset impaired is written down to its recoverable amount which is the higher of Borrowing costs value in use or its net realisable value.
In assessing value in use, the All borrowing costs are recognised in the Companys profit and loss estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using account on an accruals basis except for interest costs that are directly a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the attributable to the construction of buildings and other qualifying assets time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
which are capitalised and included within the initial cost of the asset.
Capitalisation of interest ceases when the asset is ready for use.
If there is indication of an increase in fair value of an asset that had been previously impaired, then this is recognised by reversing the impairment, Pension costs but only to the extent that the recoverable amount does not exceed the The Company operates defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
carrying amount that would have been determined if no impairment loss A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which the had been recognised for the asset.
Company pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
A defined benefit scheme is one that is not a defined contribution scheme.
Pension benefits Financial instruments under defined benefit schemes are defined on retirement based on age at Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Companys balance date of retirement, years of service and a formula using either the sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions employees compensation package or career average revalued earnings.
The Company operates a defined benefit retirement scheme which is funded by contributions from the Company and members.
The defined benefit scheme is not open to new members.
Pension scheme assets, which are held in separate trustee administered funds, are valued at market rates.
Pension scheme obligations are measured on a discounted present value basis using assumptions as shown in note 39.
The operating and financing www.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual report and financial statements 2010 Company financial statements 75 85 76 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Company financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 31 January 2010 under UK GAAP costs of the scheme are recognised separately in the income statement in Stocks Stocks are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost the period in which they arise.
Death-in-service costs are recognised on a straight line basis over their vesting period.
Actuarial gains and losses are is calculated on a weighted average basis and comprises purchase price, import duties and other non-recoverable taxes less rebates.
Stocks recognised immediately in the STRGL.
The Company has a right to recognise an asset, should one arise, in respect of the Companys net obligations to the pension schemes.
Therefore either Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
an asset or a liability is recognised in the balance sheet, and is stated net of deferred tax.
Share-based payments Payments by the Company to the defined contribution scheme are charged The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees in exchange for services rendered by them.
The fair value of the to the profit and loss account as they arise.
share-based award is calculated at the date of grant and is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase A liability or asset is recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the Companys net obligations to the scheme and is stated net of deferred tax.
This is based on the Companys estimate of share options that will eventually vest.
This takes into account movement of non-market The Company also operates a stakeholder pension scheme and conditions, being service conditions and financial performance, if relevant.
The fair value of equity-settled awards granted is not subsequently revisited.
contributions are charged to the profit and loss account as they arise.
Fair value is measured by use of a binomial stochastic model.
The expected Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange at life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currency are retranslated at behavioural considerations.
the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the profit and loss account for the period.
The cost of the share-based award relating to each subsidiary is calculated, based on an appropriate apportionment and recharged through intercompany.
Provisions Financial contracts Provisions are created where the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, where it is probable that Where the Company enters into financial contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other Companies within its Group, the Company considers it will result in an outflow of economic benefits to settle the obligation from the Company, and where it can be reliably measured.
these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability Provisions are made in respect of individual properties where there are until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to obligations for onerous contracts, dilapidations and certain make a payment under the guarantee.
decommissioning obligations for petrol filling stations.
The amounts provided are based on the Companys best estimate of the likely committed Share capital outflow to the Company.
Where material, these estimated outflows are Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly discounted to net present value.
attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Leases Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are Where the Company has purchased its own equity share capital, the retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases: all other leases are consideration paid, including directly attributable incremental costs, classified as finance leases.
The Company has no finance leases.
is deducted from retained earnings until the shares are cancelled.
On cancellation, the nominal value of the shares is deducted from share Lessor accounting operating leases capital and the amount is transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
Assets acquired and held for use under operating leases are recorded as fixed assets and are depreciated on a straight line basis to their estimated exemptions residual values over their estimated useful lives.
Operating lease income is The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a recognised on a straight line basis to the date of the next rent review.
cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 Cash Flow Statement and exemption from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29 Financial Lessee accounting operating leases instruments: disclosures.
The cash flows of the Company and financial Rental payments are taken to the profit and loss account on a straight line instruments disclosures are included in the consolidated financial basis over the life of the lease.
Deferred and current taxation The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 Related Parties Current tax payable is based on the taxable profit for the year using tax from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are part rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
Taxable profit differs from the of the Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Group.
profit as reported in the profit and loss account as it is adjusted both for items that will never be taxable or deductible and timing differences.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and not presented a profit Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result in an and loss account for the Company.
obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise, based on tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in different periods from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010 77 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Company balance sheet 31 January 2010 2010 2009 note m m Fixed assets Tangible assets 33 2,975 2,496 Investments 34 3,366 3,366 6,341 5,862 Current assets Stocks goods for resale 350 299 Debtors amounts falling due within one year 35 395 482 Cash-in-hand 151 257 896 1,038 Creditors amounts falling due within one year 36 2,766 2,588 net current liabilities 1,870 1,550 total assets less current liabilities 4,471 4,312 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year 37 455 250 Provisions for liabilities 38 90 61 net assets excluding pension asset liability 3,926 4,001 Net pension asset liability 39 16 2 net assets including pension asset liability 3,942 3,999 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital 41 265 263 Share premium 42 92 60 Capital redemption reserve 42 6 6 Merger reserve 42 2,578 2,578 Profit and loss account and hedging reserve 42 1,001 1,092 equity shareholders funds 3,942 3,999 The accounting policies on pages 75 to 76 and notes on pages 78 to 85 form part of these financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 75 to 85 were approved by the Board of Directors on 10 March 2010 and signed on its behalf by: Richard Pennycook Group Finance Director www.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual report and financial statements 2010 Company financial statements 75 85
