Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Hilmore House Gain Lane Bradford BD3 7DL Telephone: 0845 611 5000 www.
co. uk Keeping things simple Information at your fingertips Consumer Great Taste, Less Waste Webcasts This area of our website allows you to learn more All about getting more meals for your money Webcasts of the Directors delivering the about Morrisons and our offering.
by reducing waste and making the most of fresh preliminary results 2010 on 11 March 2010 food.
Includes how to store food and keep are available.
offers leftovers fresher for longer and more recipes.
Latest promotions Shareholder information Specific product offerings seasonal Other relevant shareholder information Competitions Guide on what to buy for, say, Easter, Christmas is available, like share price history, Press releases marketing and those other special times of year.
financial calendar and AGM minutes.
market street ToDAy Electronic communications More about our unique in-store offering, along Here you can find out about our Corporate Electronic communications eComms is with video presentations of where our food and Social Responsibility ethos, including the fastest and most environmentally friendly comes from and how to buy, cook and present it.
how we take good care of our environment, way to communicate with our shareholders.
society and how we go about business.
co. uk today Instead of receiving paper copies of the annual Information about our ranges, healthy eating and and interim financial results, notices of more mouth-watering recipes.
CorporATe shareholder meetings and other shareholder Work with morrisons documents, you will receive an email to let you Drink Career opportunities and information know this information is available on our website.
Information on how and what to buy, where our about working for Morrisons.
For our wines come from and, yes, more recipes.
dedicated recruitment website go to Visiting our website to obtain our results reduces www.
com our environmental impact by saving on paper and Family life also reduces our print and distribution costs.
From entertainments to bringing up baby and press office looking after your pets.
Including gardening tips Latest releases about the growing estate Sign up to eComms on our website at and even how to track where your eggs come of Morrisons, along with promotions and www.
co. uk corporate investors from.
and follow the investor eComms link.
Fresh food Investors About morrisons Giving details of seasonal food and how and User-friendly You will find information about the Group, what to buy.
Presentations, announcements and financial its operations, its strategy and structure, reports can be quickly and easily downloaded and past financial information.
Lets Grow or viewed on-screen as PDFs.
You can easily Information about our Lets Grow scheme, navigate around the Annual report and financial including how to register, facts, how it works and statements 2010 on-screen, viewing only the teaching resources.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual review 2010 29 Investor relations and financial calendar continued Contents and introduction registrars and shareholding enquiries Auditors Administrative enquiries about the holding of Morrisons shares, KPMG Audit Plc ConTenTs Our business such as change of address, change of ownership, dividend payments 1 The Embankment, Neville Street and the Dividend Reinvestment Plan should be directed to: Leeds LS1 4DW We are the UKs fourth largest food retailer by 1 Highlights Capita Registrars stockbrokers 2 Chairmans statement sales with an annual turnover in excess of 15bn.
Northern House RBS Hoare Govett Limited 4 Business review Woodsome Park 250 Bishopsgate We have 425 stores across Britain, ranging in size Fenay Bridge London EC2M 4AA 6 Strategy Huddersfield 8 A broad appeal from 10,000 to 40,000 square feet.
HD8 0GA Merrill Lynch 10 A simple model Merrill Lynch Financial Centre Over 10 million customers visit our stores 12 A real difference Telephone: 0871 664 0300 Overseas: 44 208 639 3399 2 King Edward Street London EC1A 1HQ 14 A simple commitment Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
each week served by over 134,000 employees.
16 Operating review Investment bankers www.
com 18 Board of Directors NM Rothschild & Sons Limited 1 King William Street, London EC4N 7AR solicitors 20 Summary financial statement Gordons LLP Our strategy and vision 20 Summary Directors report Riverside West, Whitehall Road Designed by salterbaxter 20 Summary corporate Leeds LS1 4AW Printed by Pureprint Group Our vision is to be the Food Specialist for Everyone.
governance report 21 Summary Directors Ashurst LLP As a food specialist we differentiate ourselves remuneration report Broadwalk House, 5 Appold Street London EC2A 2HA 25 Independent auditors statement from our major competitors by having: Cert no.
SGS-COC-0620 26 Summary financial statement Wragge & Co LLP our own manufacturing and packing facilities: 28 I nvestor relations and 55 Colmore Row financial calendar Birmingham B3 2AS more people in-store preparing food than any other retailer: and shareholder information more specialist butchers, fishmongers and bakers The number of shareholders at 31 January 2010 were 46,959 1 February 2009 were 43,949 and the number of shares in issue was 2,651,100,378 in-store than our competitors.
Information can be quickly and easily downloaded or viewed on-screen as PDFs.
co. uk annualreport10 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual review 2010 www.
