45 Consolidated financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards Customer loyalty schemes GROuP ACCOuNtING POLICIeS IFRC 13 requires customer loyalty credits to be accounted for as a separate component of the sales transaction in which they are granted.
A portion of General information the fair value of the consideration received is allocated to the award credits Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC is a public limited company incorporated and deferred.
This is then recognised as revenue over the period that the in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 Registration award credits are redeemed.
This interpretation has not had a material number 358949.
The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom impact on the Group as it is consistent with the accounting policy already and its registered address is Hilmore House, Gain Lane, Bradford, BD3 7DL, applied by the Group.
There have been no further alterations made to the accounting policies Basis of preparation as a result of considering all amendments to IFRS and IFRIC interpretations The financial statements have been prepared for the 52 weeks ended that became effective during the financial period as these were considered 31 January 2010 2009: 1 February 2009 in accordance with International to be immaterial to the Groups operations or were not relevant.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee interpretations IFRIC as adopted by the New IFRS and amendments to IAS and interpretations European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 There are a number of standards and interpretations issued by the applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
IFRS and IFRIC are issued International Accounting Standards Board that are effective for financial by the International Accounting Standards Board the IASB and must be statements after this reporting period.
The following have not been adopted into European Union law, referred to as endorsement, before adopted by the Group: they become mandatory under the IAS Regulation.
Shown below are recent standards and interpretations that have been issued by the IASB, indicating Effective for accounting their status of endorsement.
International Financial periods starting on or Reporting Standards after The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
IAS39 Embedded derivatives 30 June 2009 The Directors assessment of going concern has been considered within amendment the general information section of the Directors report.
IFRS 1 First time adoption of IFRS 1 July 2009 The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, rounded to the revised nearest million, except in some instances, where it is deemed relevant to IAS 27 Consolidated and separate 1 July 2009 disclose the amounts up to one decimal place.
They have been prepared on the historical cost basis of accounting, except for share-based payments financial statements amended and derivative financial instruments, which are measured at fair value, and pension scheme liabilities that are measured using actuarial valuations.
IAS 39 Financial instruments: 1 July 2009 Recognition and The Groups accounting policies are set out below and have, unless measurement: otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented Eligible hedged items in these consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 3 Business combinations 1 July 2009 Presentation of financial statements revised IAS 1 revised Presentation of financial statements is mandatory for the first Annual Annual improvements Various effective dates time for this financial year.
The standard provides that all owner changes improvements to IFRS 2009 from 1 July 2009 in equity may be presented in the consolidated statement of changes in equity and non-owner changes in equity in the consolidated statement IFRS 2 Group cash-settled 1 January 2010 of comprehensive income.
The Group adopts this policy and there is no share-based payment impact to the financial statements other than presentation.
The Group transactions amendment has elected to present one statement of comprehensive income.
IFRS 1 Additional exemptions 1 January 2010 for first time adopters Comparative information has been represented so that it is also in amendment conformity with the revised standard.
International Financial Reporting Segmental reporting Interpretations Committee From 2 February 2009, the Group has adopted IFRS 8 Operating IFRIC 9 Embedded derivatives 30 June 2009 segments which requires the Group to determine and present its amendment operating segments based on information which is provided internally to the chief operating decision-maker CODM.
The CODM has been IFRIC 17 Distribution of non-cash 1 July 2009 identified as the Executive Board as it is this Board that makes the key assets to owners operating decisions of the Group.
IFRIC 18 Transfers of assets 1 July 2009 from customers The Directors consider there to be one reporting segment, that of grocery retailing.
The CODMs focus is on the performance and growth of this These standards and interpretations have been endorsed by the European Union.
In making operational decisions, the CODM considers internal reports presented regularly to it, primarily the Board Management The application of these standards and interpretations is not anticipated Accounts, in order to assess the Groups performance.
These internal to have a material effect on the Groups financial statements.
reports focus on the operation of the Group as a whole and it is these reports that the CODM uses to make resourcing and operational decisions.
Therefore adoption of this standard has not led to any changes in operating segments previously reported.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual report and financial statements 2010 Group financial statements 43 74 46 Group accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation Supplier income The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts are collectively referred to as of the Company and its subsidiaries, being those undertakings that it supplier income in the retail industry.
Supplier income is recognised as a controls.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern deduction from cost of sales on an accruals basis based on the expected the financial and operating policy of an investee entity so as to obtain entitlement which has been earned up to the balance sheet date for each benefits from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used relevant supplier contract.
The accrued incentives, rebates and discounts in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared receivable at year end are included within prepayments and accrued for the same reporting period as the Parent Company and are based on income.
Where amounts received are in the expectation of future consistent accounting policies.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or business, these are recognised in line with that future business.
disposed of during the period are included in the consolidated financial statements from the effective date of acquisition up to the effective date Property transactions of disposal, as appropriate.
Property includes the balance sheet headings of property, plant and equipment, investment property, lease prepayments and non-current Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and assets classified as held for sale.
The results of transactions relating to expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing disposal of property are reported in the income statement under Profit the consolidated financial statements.
Depreciation and any impairment charges or reversals are recognised in cost of sales or administrative Significant accounting policies expenses, as appropriate.
The Directors consider the following to be significant accounting policies in the context of the Groups operations: Borrowing costs All borrowing costs are recognised in the Groups income statement on Revenue recognition an effective interest rate basis except for interest costs that are directly Revenue is recognised when significant risks and rewards of ownership attributable to the construction of buildings and other qualifying assets have been transferred to the buyer, there is reasonable certainty of which are capitalised and included within the initial cost of the asset.
recovery of the consideration and the amount of revenue, associated Capitalisation of interest ceases when the asset is ready for use.
costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably.
Deferred and current tax a Sale of goods in-store and fuel Current tax payable is based on the taxable profit for the period, using Sale of goods in-store is recorded net of value added tax, staff discounts, tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustments to tax coupons, vouchers and the free element of multi-save transactions.
payable in respect of previous periods.
Taxable profit differs from the Sale of fuel is recognised net of value added tax and Morrisons Miles award profit as reported in the income statement as it is adjusted both for items points.
Revenue is recognised when transactions are completed in-store.
that will never be taxable or deductible and temporary differences.
Current tax is charged in the income statement, except when it relates b Other sales to items charged or credited directly in equity in which case the current Other revenue primarily comprises income from concessions and tax is reflected in equity.
commissions based on the terms of the contract and manufacturing sales made direct to third party customers recognised on despatch of goods.
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method.
Provision is Revenue collected on behalf of others is not recognised as turnover, other made for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets than the related commission.
Sales are recorded net of value added tax and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for and intra-group transactions.
No deferred tax is recognised for temporary differences that arise on the initial recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition Other operating income of assets and liabilities that is not a business combination and that affects Other operating income primarily consists of income not directly related neither accounting nor taxable profits.
Deferred tax is calculated based to the operating of supermarkets and mainly comprises rental income from on tax law that is enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date investment properties and income generated from recycling of packaging.
and provided at rates expected to apply when the temporary differences Rental income arising from operating leases on investment properties is reverse.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement except accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Details of rental when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity in which case income from investment property are provided in note 11. the deferred tax is reflected in equity.
Cost of sales Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that Cost of sales consists of all costs to the point of sale including taxable profit will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
manufacturing, warehouse and transportation costs.
Store depreciation, Deferred tax assets recognised are reviewed at each reporting date as store overheads and store based employee costs are also allocated to judgement is required to estimate the availability of future taxable income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted and are offset where amounts will be settled on a net basis as there is a legally enforceable right to offset.
Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make judgements and estimates of ultimate exposures in relation to tax compliance issues.
All accruals are included in current liabilities.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010 47 Business combinations and goodwill Stocks All business combinations are accounted for by applying the Stocks are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is calculated on a weighted average basis and comprises purchase price, import duties and other non-recoverable taxes less rebates.
The assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of subsidiaries are measured Stocks represent goods for resale.
at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course recognised as goodwill.
of business, less the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Property, plant and equipment Leases a Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include directly retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases: all other leases attributable costs.
Annual reviews are made of estimated useful lives and are classified as finance leases.
The Group does not lease any assets on material residual values.
a finance lease basis either as lessor or lessee.
b Depreciation rates used to write off cost less residual value on a straight Lessor accounting operating leases line basis are: Assets acquired and made available to third parties under operating leases are recorded as property, plant and equipment and are depreciated on a Freehold land 0% straight line basis to their estimated residual values over their estimated Freehold buildings 2.5% useful lives.
Operating lease income is charged on a straight line basis to the date of the next rent review.
Leasehold buildings Over the shorter of lease period and 2.5% Lessee accounting operating leases Plant, equipment, fixtures and vehicles 14-33% Rental payments are taken to the income statement on a straight line Assets under construction 0% basis over the life of the lease.
Property leases are analysed into separate components for land and buildings and tested to establish whether the Investment property components are operating leases or finance leases.
Premiums paid for land Property held to earn rental income is classified as Investment property.
are treated as a prepayment of an operating lease rental and recognised on Investment property is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
and any recognised impairment loss.
The depreciation policy is consistent with that described for property, plant and equipment.
Provisions Provisions are created where the Group has a present obligation as a result Income from investment properties is disclosed in Other operating of a past event, where it is probable that it will result in an outflow of income and details are shown in note 11 Investment property.
economic benefits to settle the obligation from the Group, and where it The related operating costs are immaterial and are included within can be reliably measured.
Provisions are made in respect of individual properties where there are Impairment of non-financial assets obligations for onerous contracts, dilapidations and certain decommissioning Property, plant and equipment and investment property are annually obligations for petrol filling stations.
The amounts provided are based on the reviewed for indications of impairment, or when events or changes in Groups best estimate of the likely committed outflow to the Group.
Where circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
material, these estimated outflows are discounted to net present value.
This is performed for each cash generating unit, which in the case of a supermarket is an individual retail outlet.
If there are indications of possible Foreign currencies impairment then a test is performed on the asset affected to assess its Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange at recoverable amount against carrying value.
An asset impaired is written the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets down to its recoverable amount which is the higher of value in use or its fair and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currency are retranslated at value less costs to sell.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate on retranslation are included in the income statement for the period.
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
If there is indication of an increase in fair value of an asset that had been previously impaired, then this is recognised by reversing the impairment, but only to the extent that the recoverable amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no impairment loss had been recognised for the asset.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual report and financial statements 2010 Group financial statements 43 74 48 Group accounting policies continued Retirement benefits b Financial liabilities The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
i Trade and other creditors A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which the Group Trade and other creditors are stated at cost.
pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
A defined benefit scheme is one that is not a defined contribution scheme.
Pension benefits under ii Borrowings defined benefit schemes are defined on retirement based on age at date Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at of retirement, years of service and a formula using either the employees fair value, net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial compensation package or career average revalued earnings.
recognition, any difference between the redemption value and the initial carrying amount is recognised in the income statement over the period The Group operates two defined benefit retirement schemes which are of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
funded by contributions from the Group and members.
The defined benefit schemes are not open to new members.
Pension scheme assets, which are c Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting held in separate trustee administered funds, are valued at market rates.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value, Pension scheme obligations are measured on a discounted present value which normally equates to cost, and are remeasured at fair value basis using assumptions as shown in note 21.
The operating and financing through profit or loss.
costs of the scheme are recognised separately in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Death-in-service costs are recognised on a i Cash flow hedges straight line basis over their vesting period.
Actuarial gains and losses are Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
they hedge the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or The Group has a right to recognise an asset, should one arise, in respect liability, or a highly probable forecasted transaction.
of the Groups net obligations to the pension schemes.
Therefore either an asset or a liability is recognised in the balance sheet, calculated The Group has a cross-currency swap which has been designated as a separately for each scheme.
This derivative financial instrument is used to match or minimise risk from potential movements in foreign exchange rates inherent Payments by the Group to the defined contribution scheme are charged in the cash flows of certain financial liabilities.
To minimise the risk from to the income statement as they arise.
potential movements in energy prices, the Group has energy price contracts which are also designated as cash flow hedges.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain Derivatives are reviewed quarterly for effectiveness.
Where a derivative employees in exchange for services rendered by them.
The fair value of financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows the share-based award is calculated at the date of grant and is expensed of a recognised asset or liability, or highly probable forecast transaction, on a straight line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding the effective part of any gain or loss on the movement in fair value of the increase in equity.
This is based on the Groups estimate of share options derivative financial instrument is recognised in other comprehensive that will eventually vest.
This takes into account movement of non-market income and presented in the hedging reserve in equity.
conditions, being service conditions and financial performance, if relevant.
The gain or loss on any ineffective part of the hedge is immediately Fair value is measured by use of a binomial stochastic model.
The expected recognised in the income statement within finance income costs in relation life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best to the cross-currency swap and within cost of sales in relation to the energy estimate, for effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and price contracts.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in behavioural considerations.
the recognition of a financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative gains or losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified into The Group has applied fair values to all grants of equity instruments after the income statement when the transaction occurs.
7 November 2002 which were unvested as of 1 January 2005 at each balance sheet date.
Net debt Net debt is cash and cash equivalents, long term cash on deposit, Financial instruments bank and other current loans, bonds and derivative financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance stated at current fair value.
sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly a Financial assets attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity i Trade and other debtors as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Trade and other debtors are carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Provision is made when there is objective Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital, evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full, with the consideration paid, including directly attributable incremental costs, the charge being recognised in administrative expenses in the income is deducted from retained earnings until the shares are cancelled.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery On cancellation, the nominal value of the shares is deducted from share is assessed as being remote.
capital and the amount is transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
ii Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents for cash flow purposes includes cash-in-hand, cash-at-bank and bank overdrafts together with short term, highly-liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash, with an insignificant risk of a change in value, within three months from the date of acquisition.
In the balance sheet bank overdrafts are presented within current liabilities.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010 49 treasury shares The Group has an employee trust for the granting of Group shares to executives and members of the employee share plans.
Shares in the Group held by the employee share trust are treated as treasury shares and presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from retained earnings.
The shares are deducted for the purpose of calculating the Groups earnings per share.
use of critical accounting assumptions and estimates Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
a Provisions Provisions have been made for onerous leases, dilapidations and decommissioning costs.
These provisions are estimates based on the condition of each property and market conditions for the relevant location.
The actual costs and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events.
Any difference between expectations and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period when such determination is made.
b Pension scheme assumptions and mortality table The carrying value of defined benefit pension schemes is valued using actuarial valuations.
These valuations are based on assumptions including the selection of mortality tables for the profile of members in each scheme.
All these are estimates of future events.
The mortality experience study conducted as part of the Safeway scheme triennial valuation is statistically significant and the longevity assumption is adjusted to reflect its results.
As both of the Groups schemes have a similar composition and type of members, this adjustment is also made to the Morrisons scheme.
The mortality assumptions, financial assumptions and mortality experience study are based on advice received from the schemes actuaries.
Where appropriate these are corroborated from time-to-time with benchmark surveys and ad-hoc analysis.
c Determination of useful lives, residual values and carrying values of property, plant and equipment, investment property and long leasehold land prepayments Depreciation is provided so as to write down the assets to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as set out in the accounting policies for property, plant and equipment, investment property and long leasehold land prepayments.
The selection of these residual values and estimated lives, particularly in respect of plant and equipment, requires the exercise of judgement.
The Group is required to assess whether there is indication of impairment to the carrying values of assets.
In making that assessment, judgements are made in estimating value in use.
The Directors consider that the individual carrying values of stores and other operating assets are supportable either by value in use or market values.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual report and financial statements 2010 Group financial statements 43 74
