45 Consolidated financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards Customer loyalty schemes GROuP ACCOuNtING POLICIeS IFRC 13 requires customer loyalty credits to be accounted for as a separate component of the sales transaction in which they are granted.
A portion of General information the fair value of the consideration received is allocated to the award credits Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC is a public limited company incorporated and deferred.
This is then recognised as revenue over the period that the in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 Registration award credits are redeemed.
This interpretation has not had a material number 358949.
The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom impact on the Group as it is consistent with the accounting policy already and its registered address is Hilmore House, Gain Lane, Bradford, BD3 7DL, applied by the Group.
There have been no further alterations made to the accounting policies Basis of preparation as a result of considering all amendments to IFRS and IFRIC interpretations The financial statements have been prepared for the 52 weeks ended that became effective during the financial period as these were considered 31 January 2010 2009: 1 February 2009 in accordance with International to be immaterial to the Groups operations or were not relevant.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee interpretations IFRIC as adopted by the New IFRS and amendments to IAS and interpretations European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 There are a number of standards and interpretations issued by the applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
IFRS and IFRIC are issued International Accounting Standards Board that are effective for financial by the International Accounting Standards Board the IASB and must be statements after this reporting period.
The following have not been adopted into European Union law, referred to as endorsement, before adopted by the Group: they become mandatory under the IAS Regulation.
Shown below are recent standards and interpretations that have been issued by the IASB, indicating Effective for accounting their status of endorsement.
International Financial periods starting on or Reporting Standards after The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
IAS39 Embedded derivatives 30 June 2009 The Directors assessment of going concern has been considered within amendment the general information section of the Directors report.
IFRS 1 First time adoption of IFRS 1 July 2009 The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, rounded to the revised nearest million, except in some instances, where it is deemed relevant to IAS 27 Consolidated and separate 1 July 2009 disclose the amounts up to one decimal place.
They have been prepared on the historical cost basis of accounting, except for share-based payments financial statements amended and derivative financial instruments, which are measured at fair value, and pension scheme liabilities that are measured using actuarial valuations.
IAS 39 Financial instruments: 1 July 2009 Recognition and The Groups accounting policies are set out below and have, unless measurement: otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented Eligible hedged items in these consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 3 Business combinations 1 July 2009 Presentation of financial statements revised IAS 1 revised Presentation of financial statements is mandatory for the first Annual Annual improvements Various effective dates time for this financial year.
The standard provides that all owner changes improvements to IFRS 2009 from 1 July 2009 in equity may be presented in the consolidated statement of changes in equity and non-owner changes in equity in the consolidated statement IFRS 2 Group cash-settled 1 January 2010 of comprehensive income.
The Group adopts this policy and there is no share-based payment impact to the financial statements other than presentation.
The Group transactions amendment has elected to present one statement of comprehensive income.
IFRS 1 Additional exemptions 1 January 2010 for first time adopters Comparative information has been represented so that it is also in amendment conformity with the revised standard.
International Financial Reporting Segmental reporting Interpretations Committee From 2 February 2009, the Group has adopted IFRS 8 Operating IFRIC 9 Embedded derivatives 30 June 2009 segments which requires the Group to determine and present its amendment operating segments based on information which is provided internally to the chief operating decision-maker CODM.
The CODM has been IFRIC 17 Distribution of non-cash 1 July 2009 identified as the Executive Board as it is this Board that makes the key assets to owners operating decisions of the Group.
IFRIC 18 Transfers of assets 1 July 2009 from customers The Directors consider there to be one reporting segment, that of grocery retailing.
The CODMs focus is on the performance and growth of this These standards and interpretations have been endorsed by the European Union.
In making operational decisions, the CODM considers internal reports presented regularly to it, primarily the Board Management The application of these standards and interpretations is not anticipated Accounts, in order to assess the Groups performance.
These internal to have a material effect on the Groups financial statements.
reports focus on the operation of the Group as a whole and it is these reports that the CODM uses to make resourcing and operational decisions.
Therefore adoption of this standard has not led to any changes in operating segments previously reported.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual report and financial statements 2010 Group financial statements 43 74
