61 18 OtHeR FINANCIAL LIABILItIeS CONtINueD Borrowing facilities Borrowings are denominated in Sterling and Euros and bear fixed interest rates, with the exception of the floating credit facility which bears floating interest rates.
The expiry date for the floating credit facility is consistent with the undrawn element of the facility disclosed below.
In the event of default of covenants on the bank facility, the principal amounts and any interest accrued are repayable on demand.
The Group has the following undrawn floating committed borrowing facilities available in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date: 2010 2009 m m Undrawn facilities expiring: between 2 and 3 years 650 between 3 and 4 years 850 19 FINANCIAL INStRuMeNtS a Financial risk management The Groups treasury operations are controlled centrally by the Treasury Committee in accordance with clearly defined policies and procedures that have been authorised by the Board.
There is an amount of delegated authority to the Treasury Committee, but all activities are summarised in half yearly treasury reports which are presented to the Audit Committee.
The Groups principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise bank loans and overdrafts, bonds, other borrowings, finance leases and trade and other creditors.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to raise finance for the Groups operations.
The Group has various financial assets such as trade debtors and cash and short term deposits which arise directly from its operations.
The Group enters into derivative transactions, in the form of forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps and energy price contracts.
The purpose of these derivative instruments is to manage risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
As part of our normal banking arrangements, we utilise letters of credit in order to facilitate contracts with third parties.
The financial derivatives relating to commitments entered into during the year are to manage the risks arising from its usage of energy and foreign currency.
It remains the Groups policy not to engage in speculative trading of financial instruments.
The objectives, policies and processes for managing these risks, which remain unchanged from the prior year are stated below: i Foreign currency risk The Group makes the majority of its purchases in Sterling however it incurs currency exposure in respect of overseas trade purchases made in currencies other than Sterling, primarily being Euro and US Dollar.
The Groups objective is to reduce risk to short term profits from exchange rate fluctuations.
It is Group policy that any transactional currency exposures recognised to have a material impact on short term profits will be hedged through the use of derivative financial instruments.
As at the balance sheet date, the Group had entered into forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate foreign currency exposure on up to 50% 2009: 50% of its forecasted purchases within the next six months.
Exposure on debt denominated in a foreign currency is fully hedged using cross-currency swaps.
The sensitivity to a reasonably possible change - 20% in the US Dollar Euro exchange rate has been determined as being immaterial.
ii Liquidity risk The Group policy is to maintain a balance of funding with a range of maturities and a sufficient level of undrawn committed borrowing facilities to meet any unforeseen obligations and opportunities.
Short term cash balances, together with undrawn committed facilities, enable the Group to manage its liquidity risk.
The Group finances its operations with a combination of bank credit facilities and bonds.
The Treasury Committee monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity reserve on a quarterly basis, which comprises committed and uncommitted borrowing facilities on the basis of expected cash flow.
At the year end, the Group had undrawn committed facilities of 650m note 18 : these facilities remain available to the Group.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups other financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments, which includes interest payments.
Creditors and current tax liabilities have been excluded from this analysis as these balances are due within 12 months and their contractual undiscounted payments equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
As the amounts included in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these amounts do not agree to the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet for borrowings.
Where borrowings are subject to a floating rate, an estimate for interest has been made.
2010 2009 m m Less than one year 270 52 One to two years 39 281 Two to three years 487 40 Three to four years 35 288 Four to five years 185 35 More than five years 493 677 www.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual report and financial statements 2010 Group financial statements 43 74 62 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 31 January 2010 19 FINANCIAL INStRuMeNtS CONtINueD a Financial risk management continued The table below analyses the Groups derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
At 31 January 2010 1 year 12 years 23 years 34 years m m m m Derivatives settled on a gross basis Cross-currency swap cash flow hedges Outflow 160 Inflow 231 Forward contracts Outflow 51 Inflow 50 Derivatives settled on a net basis Energy price contracts cash flow hedges Outflow 14 4 2 At 1 February 2009 1 year 12 years 23 years 34 years m m m m Derivatives settled on a gross basis Cross-currency swap cash flow hedges Outflow 11 156 Inflow 14 235 Forward contracts Outflow 53 Inflow 56 Derivatives settled on a net basis Energy price contracts cash flow hedges Outflow 2 iii Credit risk Credit risk is managed on a Group basis.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, deposits with banking groups as well as credit exposures from other sources of income such as supplier income and tenants of investment properties.
The Group maintains deposits with banks and financial institutions with an acceptable credit rating for a period not exceeding six months.
Further, the Group has specified limits that can be deposited with any banking group or financial institution at any point.
The maximum exposure on cash and cash equivalents and deposits is equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
The Group does not expect any significant performance losses from counterparties.
The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties.
It is the Groups policy that tenants of investment properties who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The maximum exposure is the carrying amount as disclosed in note 15.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
iv Other risk Pricing risk: The Group manages the risks associated with the purchase of electricity, gas and diesel consumed by its activities.
This does not include fuel purchased for resale to customers.
The Treasury Committee reviews the Groups market price exposure to these commodities on a quarterly basis and determines a strategy for utilising derivative financial products in order to mitigate the volatility of energy prices.
The Group intends to hold derivatives to maintain cover of its energy purchases of up to 75% over an appropriate timescale.
Cash flow interest rate risk: The Groups long term policy is to protect itself against adverse movements in interest rates by maintaining up to 60% of its consolidated total net debt in fixed rate borrowings over a four-year horizon.
As at the balance sheet date 61% 2009: 74% of the Groups borrowings are at fixed rate, thereby substantially reducing the Groups exposure to adverse movements in interest rates.
Cash and cash equivalents are a significant interest-bearing asset held by the Group.
At year end, a 1% movement in interest rate would have had a 2m 2009: 2m impact on the Groups annual finance income expense.
There are no other significant interest-bearing assets held by the Group.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010 63 19 FINANCIAL INStRuMeNtS CONtINueD b Capital management The Groups objectives are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern providing returns to shareholders, through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance, and to maintain a strong credit rating and headroom.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes appropriate decisions in light of the current economic conditions and strategic objectives of the Group.
A key objective of the Groups capital management is to maintain compliance with the covenants set out in the revolving credit facility.
The Groups policy is to maintain both a gearing ratio and interest cover, which represents headroom of at least 10% over and above the requirements laid down in the revolving credit facility.
Throughout the year, the Group has comfortably complied with this policy.
There has been no change in the objectives, policies or processes with regards to capital management during the years ended 31 January 2010 and 1 February 2009. c Fair values i Financial assets All financial derivatives are held at fair value which has been determined by reference to prices available from the markets on which the instruments are traded.
Cash and cash equivalents and Debtors are held at book value which equals the fair value.
The values of the financial assets are disclosed within note 13. ii Financial liabilities All financial liabilities are carried at amortised cost.
The Euro bonds are retranslated at balance sheet date spot rates.
The fair value of the Sterling and Euro bonds are measured using closing market prices.
These compare to carrying values as follows: 2010 2010 2009 2009 Amortised Fair Amortised Fair cost value cost value m m m m Total bonds current 198 220 Total bonds non-current 561 598 784 781 759 818 784 781 The fair value of other items within current and non-current borrowing equals their carrying amount, as the impact of discounting is not significant.
d Hedging activities i Cash flow hedge At 31 January 2010, the Company held a cross-currency swap which has been designated as a cash flow hedge.
This derivative financial instrument is used to minimise risk from potential movements in foreign exchange rates inherent in cash flow of certain liabilities.
To minimise the risk from potential movements in energy prices, the Group has energy price contracts which are also designated as cash flow hedges.
The hedged forecast transactions denominated in foreign currency are expected to occur in the next year 2009: two years.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity note 24 on cross-currency swaps as at 31 January 2010 are recognised in the income statement in the period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement, which is in the next year 2009: two years.
ii Forward contracts The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the cost of future purchases of goods for resale, where those purchases are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the purchasing company.
The hedging instruments are primarily used to hedge purchases in Euros and US dollars.
The cash flows hedged will occur within one year of the balance sheet date.
At 31 January 2010, the total notional amount of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts to which the Group has committed was 51m 2009: 53m.
The fair value of these outstanding forward exchange contracts at the balance sheet date was a liability of 1m 2009: nil.
e Fair value hierarchy IFRS 7 requires an analysis of financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have been defined as follows: Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs All financial instruments carried at fair value within the Group at 31 January 2010 and 1 February 2009 are financial derivatives and all are categorised as Level 2 instruments.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual report and financial statements 2010 Group financial statements 43 74
