41 general information tHe DiReCtORs RePORt At the AGM of the Company held in 2009, Philip Cox, Penny Hughes and Johanna Waterous a special resolution was passed to renew the anD Business ReView joined the Board on 1 April 2009, 1 January Pages 2 to 42 inclusive of this Annual report authority given at the AGM held on 5 June 2008 2010 and 1 February 2010 respectively as to purchase by the Company up to 262,983,160 consist of a Directors report and business review Non-Executive Directors.
that has been drawn up and presented in ordinary shares representing approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital at that time.
accordance with, and in reliance on, English Marc Bolland resigned from the Board on company law.
The liabilities of the Directors in This authority remained valid on 1 February 1 February 2010.
During the period the Company did not connection with that Directors report and business review shall be subject to the limitations and purchase any of its own shares pursuant to that Martyn Jones retires by rotation at the AGM.
authority, which will expire at the close of the restrictions provided by the Companies Act 2006.
Penny Hughes and Johanna Waterous having been 2010 AGM.
appointed to the Board since the last AGM are also forward-looking statements eligible for re-election.
All of them, being eligible, The Directors report is prepared for the In addition, 21,287,110 ordinary shares were offer themselves for re-election at the AGM.
issued during the period to employees exercising members of the Company and should not be relied upon by any other party or for any other share options.
The interests of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company and their immediate purpose.
Where the Directors report includes forward-looking statements, these are made Borrowing powers families in the shares of the Company, along with The Articles of Association of the Company share options, are contained in the Directors by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the time of restrict the borrowings of the Company and its remuneration report set out on pages 32 to 40. subsidiary undertakings to a maximum amount their approval of this report.
Consequently such statements should be treated with caution equal to twice the share capital and consolidated At no time during the year did any of the Directors due to the inherent uncertainties, including reserves.
have a material interest in any significant contract both economic and business risk factors, with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
underlying such forward-looking statements substantial shareholdings and information.
As at 10 March 2010 the Company has been employee relations notified by the following shareholders excluding Morrisons is an Equal Opportunities employer.
Result and dividend Directors that they have interests in 3% or more Equal Opportunities are offered to all regardless The profit for the period after taxation of the issued share capital of the Company: of race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, attributable to the owners of the Company sex including gender reassignment, marital number % of amounted to 598m 2008 09: 460m.
or civil partnership status, disability, religion of shares holding The Directors have declared and recommend or belief, sexual orientation, age or trade Black Rock Inc 202,811,625 7.65% the following dividends: union membership.
Sir KD Morrison 171,346,034 6.46% m Brandes The Group gives full and fair consideration to Paid interim dividend of 1.08p Investment applications for employment made by people per share 2009: 0.8p 28 Partners LP 132,155,077 4.98% with disabilities.
The policy is to offer equal opportunity to all disabled candidates and Recommended final dividend Legal & General employees who have a disability or become of 7.12p per share 2009: 5.0p 189 Group Plc 131,893,054 4.97% disabled in any way during the course of their Ameriprise employment.
A full assessment of the individuals The final dividend, if approved by shareholders Financial Inc 131,284,252 4.95% needs is undertaken and reasonable adjustments at the Annual General Meeting AGM, is to be A Shelley 129,886,316 4.90% are made to the work environment or practices paid on 9 June 2010 to ordinary shareholders on in order to assist those with disabilities.
the register of members at close of business on AR Wilson 128,272,840 4.84% 7 May 2010.
If the final dividend is approved by Walter Scott & All candidates and employees are treated equally shareholders, the total ordinary dividend for the Partner Ltd 107,775,155 4.07% in respect of recruitment, promotion, training, year will be 8.2p per share.
Zurich Financial pay and other employment policies and Services 81,286,130 3.07% conditions.
All decisions are based on relevant auditors merits and abilities.
A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as The number of shares appearing above is that auditors and a separate resolution to authorise appearing in the relevant notification to the Political and charitable donations the Directors to set their remuneration is to be Company.
The percentage appearing above is During the period the Group made charitable proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
the percentage that number represents of the donations amounting to 0.1m 2009: 0.3m.
The issued share capital of the Company as at donations were mainly small donations to support annual general Meeting 10 March 2010. local communities.
In addition the Group supported The notice of the 2010 AGM of the Company to various charities and in the year over 1.8m 2009: be held at the Companys headquarters at Gain Relating to beneficial owners of 0.9m was raised by customers and colleagues Lane in Bradford on 3 June 2010 is sent to shares with information rights for the Charity of the Year and 0.8m raised for shareholders with an accompanying explanatory Beneficial owners of shares who have been Children in Need and the Haiti appeal.
No political letter from the Chairman.
The Directors believe nominated by the registered holder of those donations were made, which is Group policy.
each of the resolutions to be proposed at the shares to receive information rights under AGM are in the best interests of the Group and section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are Disclosure of information to auditors recommend shareholders to vote in favour of required to direct all communications to the The Directors who held office at the date of each of them.
Shareholders will also receive registered holder of their shares rather than approval of this Directors report confirm that, notification of the availability of the results on to the Companys registrar, Capita Registrars, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant the Groups website, unless they have positively or to the Group directly.
audit information of which the Groups auditors elected to receive a printed version of the results.
are unaware: and each Director has taken all steps Directors that he or she ought to have taken as a Director share capital The current Directors of the Group and their to make himself or herself aware of any relevant The authorised and called up share capital of the biographies are shown on page 26. audit information and to establish that the Company, together with details of shares allotted Susan Murray retired from the Board on Groups auditors are aware of that information.
during the year, are shown in note 23 of the 31 December 2009.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual report and financial statements 2010 Governance 26 42 42 general information continued going concern in place for each division of the Company and Company of a notice of an approved transfer of subsidiary companies within the Group.
Each the shares or all the information required by the The Directors assessment of the Group and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern health and safety manual contains the policy and relevant section 793 notice, whichever is the earlier.
procedures for complying with the Health and has taken into consideration the effect that the current economic climate has on the Group.
Safety at Work Act 1974, including the provision, The Directors may refuse to register any transfer based on risk assessment, of safe working of any share which is not a fully-paid share, The Groups ability to borrow cash has not been practices for all work activities across the Group.
although such discretion may not be exercised The Groups health and safety policy is approved in a way which the Financial Services Authority adversely affected by the continuing lack of liquidity in the financial markets and the Group has by the Executive Board.
The Group has adopted regards as preventing dealings in the shares of the national targets set by the Health and Safety the relevant class or classes from taking place negotiated and available committed, competitive facilities that will meet the Groups needs in the Commission for the reduction of workplace on an open or proper basis.
The Directors may accidents and work-related ill health, and is on likewise refuse to register any transfer of a share short and medium term.
In addition, the credit rating on the Groups bonds has been upgraded course to meet or exceed these targets.
Health in favour of more than four persons jointly.
and safety performance is monitored to ensure The Company is not aware of any other by Moodys for the second successive year.
continuous improvement in all areas.
restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company other than certain restrictions that The principal risks that the Group is challenged with have been set out on page 13 along with additional shareholder information may from time to time be imposed by laws and Additional information for shareholders is regulations for example, insider trading laws.
how the Directors mitigate these risks in the current economic climate.
required by the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into UK Law.
The Company is not aware of any agreements After reviewing the Groups financial forecasts between shareholders that may result in Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act restrictions on the transfer of securities or including an assessment of working capital and other medium term plans, the Directors are 2006, the Company is required to disclose voting rights.
Such disclosures, confident that the Company and the Group have adequate financial resources available which are not covered elsewhere in this report, appointment and powers of Directors to continue in operational existence for the include the following paragraphs.
Where Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution foreseeable future.
The going concern basis reference is made to the Companys Articles at a general meeting of ordinary shareholders.
has continued to be adopted in the preparation of Association, this refers to the existing set of The Directors have the power to appoint a of the financial statements.
Articles, although the changes proposed to be Director during the year but any person so made at the Companys 2010 AGM will not appointed must be put up for appointment at Payment to creditors change the relevant sections.
The disclosures the next Annual General Meeting.
Supplier credit is an important factor in the set out below are in some cases a summary of the success of the business.
It is Group policy to relevant provisions of the Companys Articles of Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant ensure all payments are made within mutually Association and the relevant full provisions can statutory law and to such direction as may be given by the Company in general meeting by agreed credit terms.
Where disputes arise the be found in the Articles which are available for Group attempts to sort these out promptly and inspection at the Companys registered office.
special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors, who may amicably to ensure delays in payment are kept to a minimum.
Trade creditors for the Group at share capital and rights attaching to the exercise all powers of the Company which are not required to be exercised by the Company the financial year end represented 29 days of Companys shares purchases 2009: 33 days.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, any in general meeting.
share in the Company may be issued with such groceries supply Code of Practice rights or restrictions, whether in regard to articles of association The Companys Articles of Association may only The Competition Commission published its final dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as report on the market investigation into the the Company may from time to time by ordinary be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
At the Companys AGM supply of groceries in the UK on 30 April 2008. resolution determine or, in the absence of any such The report included a package of remedies to determination, as the Directors may determine.
to be held on 3 June 2010, a resolution will be put to shareholders proposing the adoption of address a number of issues identified during the investigation.
At a general meeting of the Company every new Articles of Association to reflect changes introduced by the new Companies Act 2006. member has one vote on a show of hands and on One such remedy was the introduction of a a poll one vote for each share held.
The notice of Other disclosures new Groceries Supply Code of Practice GSCOP general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising to replace the existing Supermarket Code of voting rights either by proxy or present in person There are no persons with whom the Group has contractual or other arrangements which Practice.
On 4 February 2010, the Groceries in relation to resolutions to be passed at a Supply Chain Practices Market Investigation general meeting.
are essential to the business of the Group.
Order 2009 came into effect, and the Groups obligations under GSCOP began on that date.
No member is, unless the Board decides The Company is not party to any significant arrangements which take effect, alter or The new Code applies to all grocery retailers otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either with annual turnover in excess of 1bn.
personally or by proxy at a general meeting or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
to exercise any other right conferred by being a Prior to 4 February 2010, the Group appointed shareholder if he or any person with an interest The Company does not have any employee share a Code Compliance Officer, as required under in shares has been sent a notice under section the provisions of GSCOP, and provided 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers schemes where the shares to which the scheme relates have rights with regard to the control of the comprehensive training to in excess of 650 upon public companies the power to require colleagues who will work with the code in information with respect to interests in their Company which are not exercisable by employees.
their everyday dealings with suppliers.
voting shares and he or any interested person failed to supply the Company with the By the order of the Board Health and safety policy information requested within 14 days after It is the Groups intention, so far as is reasonably delivery of that notice.
The Board may also Greg McMahon Company Secretary practicable, to ensure the health, safety and decide that no dividend is payable in respect welfare of all its employees, customers and of those default shares and that no transfer of 10 March 2010 visitors to its premises.
In order to achieve this, any default shares shall be registered.
These a comprehensive health and safety manual is restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010
