43 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual report and financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material with applicable law and regulations.
departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the continue in business.
Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: for preparing a Directors report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate governance statement that complies with that law make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and those regulations.
for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair review of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and its subsidiaries included in the consolidation as a whole: and the Directors report includes a fair review of the development of the business and the position of the Company and its subsidiaries included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board 10 March 2010 www.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual report and financial statements 2010 Group financial statements 43 74
