Shareholder information Access to shareholder information Stock Exchange Listings All Wolseley plc shareholder information is available The ordinary shares of 10 pence each of the Company electronically.
Shareview, a service offered by our registrars, arelisted on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company Equiniti, allows shareholders online access to a range of alsooperates a Level I American Depositary Receipts shareholder information.
It provides access to individuals ADR programme.
American Depository Shares, shareholding details in the Company and practical help on whichareevidenced by the ADRs, are listed on the transferring shares or updating personal details.
It also allows premiertier  market OTCQX and shareholders to decide how to receive their shareholder each ADRrepresents one-tenth of an ordinary share.
communications and to submit their votes for all shareholder Furtherinformation on ADRs can be found at meetings.
com To register, shareholders simply need to log on to Published information www.
co. uk using their shareholder reference number and complete the simple on-screen registration Further copies of the Annual Report may be obtained process.
First-time users will need to enter certain information fromthe Group Communications and Investor Relations and to choose a personal identication number before they Department, Wolseley plc, Parkview 1220, Arlington are able to access their shareholding details.
Business Park, Theale, Reading RG7 4GA, United Kingdom.
Company information may also be viewed on the Companys The Company can, at shareholders request, send an website at www.
com email notication each time a new shareholder report or other shareholder communication is put on the website.
If you would like to receive a copy of the Annual Report in an Shareholders will then be able to read and or download the appropriate alternative format, such as Braille or an audio information at their leisure, but will still be able to request version on CD, please contact 44 0 118 929 8700. paper copies of the documents should they so wish.
Corporate timetable Share dealing 7 December 2010 UK-based shareholders are also offered a simple and Interim management statement released.
convenient telephone and internet share sale and purchase 20 January 2011 service by our registrars.
Equiniti Shareview dealing is Annual General Meeting.
available for telephone purchases and sales between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday on 0871 384 2020 and for 21 March 2011 internet purchases and sales via www.
co. uk Announcement of Half Year Results for the period ending dealing.
A postal dealing service is also available and a form 31January 2011. together with terms and conditions can be obtained from 23 May 2011 Equiniti by calling 0871 384 2934.
Calls to these numbers Interim management statement released.
arecharged at 8 pence per minute from a BT landline.
Othertelephony providers costs may vary.
2009 Share issue and 26 September 2011  Final results for the year ending 31 July 2011 announced.
Information relating to the corporate transaction share Dates are based on current expectations.
capitalisation and rights issue, which was approved by The Half Year and Annual Final Results announcements shareholders on 1 April 2009 including the taxable treatment andtheinterim management statements will be available of the rights or payment for rights not taken up, is available in ontheCompanys website at www.
com the prospectus issued at that time.
com 142 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
