Group accounting policies Year ended 31 July 2010 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in profit on ordinary activities from continuing operations from accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the date of acquisition or up to the date of sale.
IFRS as adopted by the European Union, including Intra-group transactions and balances and any unrealised interpretations issued by the International Accounting gains and losses arising from intra-group transactions are Standards Board IASB and its committees, and with those eliminated on consolidation.
parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The date of transition to IFRS was Discontinued operations 1 August 2004.
When the Group has disposed of or intends to dispose of a A summary of the principal accounting policies applied by business component that represents a separate major line of the Group in the preparation of the consolidated financial business or geographical area of operations it classifies such statements is set out below.
The post-tax profit or loss of the discontinued operations is shown as a single line on the face Basis of accounting of the income statement, separate from the other results of The consolidated financial statements have been prepared the Group.
under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale investments and financial Foreign currencies assets and liabilities held for trading.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups subsidiary undertakings are measured using the Accounting standards and interpretations currency of the primary economic environment in which the adopted during the year subsidiary undertaking operates the functional currency.
The Group has adopted IAS 1 Presentation of Financial The consolidated financial statements are presented in Statements revised 2007 in the year.
This requires changes sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group in equity to be shown in a primary statement.
As a result, and the functional currency of the parent company.
changes in equity are disclosed in these consolidated financial The trading results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are statements in a primary statement rather than in the notes.
translated into sterling using average rates of exchange ruling The Group has also adopted IFRS 7 amendment Improving during the relevant financial period.
The amendment The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are requires enhanced disclosures about fair value measurement translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the and liquidity risk including the disclosure of fair value period end.
Exchange differences arising between the measurements by level of a fair value measurement hierarchy.
translation into sterling of the net assets of these subsidiary The Group has also adopted the following new financial undertakings at rates ruling at the beginning and end of the reporting standards, interpretations and amendments to year are recognised in the currency translation reserve as are published standards in the year which have not had a material exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings to the effect on the results or the financial position of the Group for extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge the year ended 31 July 2010. against foreign currency net assets.
IFRS 2 amendment Share-based Payment Changes in the fair value and the final settlement value of derivative financial instruments, entered into to hedge foreign IAS 23 revised Borrowing Costs currency net assets and that satisfy the hedging conditions IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes of IAS 39, are recognised in the currency translation reserve see the separate accounting policy on derivative financial IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations instruments.
IAS 27 revised Consolidated and Separate Financial In the event that an overseas subsidiary undertaking is sold, Statements the gain or loss on disposal recognised in the income IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation statement is determined after taking into account the cumulative currency translation differences that are Exceptional items attributable to the subsidiary undertaking concerned.
Exceptional items are those material items which, by virtue of Foreign currency transactions entered into during the year are their size or incidence, are presented separately in the income translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the statement to enable a full understanding of the Groups dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities financial performance.
These exclude impairments of acquired denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate intangibles which are also presented separately in the income of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Transactions which may give rise to exceptional translation differences are taken to the income statement with items include restructurings of business activities and gains or the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings to losses on the disposal of businesses.
the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge against foreign currency net assets as detailed above.
Consolidation Revenue The consolidated financial information includes the results of the parent company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up Revenue is the amount receivable for the provision of goods to 31 July 2010. and services falling within the Groups ordinary activities, excluding intra-group sales, estimated and actual sales The trading results of businesses other than discontinued returns, trade and early settlement discounts, value added tax operations acquired or sold during the year are included in and similar sales taxes.
72 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Revenue from the provision of goods is recognised when management purposes and are not larger than the reporting the risks and rewards of ownership of goods have been segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating transferred to the customer.
The risks and rewards of Segments.
ownership of goods are deemed to have been transferred Other intangible assets when the goods are shipped to, or are picked up by, the customer.
An intangible asset, which is an identifiable non-monetary asset without physical substance, is recognised to the extent Revenue from services is recognised when the service that it is probable that the expected future economic benefits provided to the customer has been completed.
attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and that its Customer loyalty credits are accounted for as a separate cost can be measured reliably.
The asset is deemed to be component of the sales transaction in which they are granted.
identifiable when it is separable or when it arises from A portion of the fair value of the consideration received is contractual or other legal rights.
allocated to the loyalty credits and deferred over the period Intangible assets, primarily brands, trade names and customer that loyalty credits are redeemed.
relationships, acquired as part of a business combination are Revenue from the provision of goods and services is only capitalised separately from goodwill and are carried at cost recognised when the amounts to be recognised are fixed less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured.
Amortisation is calculated using the reducing balance method for customer relationships and the straight-line Cost of sales method for other intangible assets.
The cost of the intangible assets is amortised over their estimated useful lives as follows: Cost of sales includes purchased goods, the cost of bringing inventory to its present location and condition, and labour and Customer relationships 4 25 years overheads attributable to assembly and construction services.
Trade names and brands 1 15 years Other 1 4 years Vendor rebates Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, The Group enters into arrangements with certain vendors plant and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible providing for inventory purchase rebates.
These purchase asset and is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation rebates are accrued as earned and are recorded initially as a and accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include software reduction in inventory with a subsequent reduction in cost of licences, consulting costs attributable to the development, sales when the related product is sold.
design and implementation of the computer software and internal costs directly attributable to the development, design Business combinations and implementation of the computer software.
Costs in respect of training and data conversion are expensed as The Group has applied the purchase method in its accounting incurred.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
method so as to charge the cost of the computer software to The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the the income statement over its estimated useful life as follows: assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred Computer software 3 5 years or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a Property, plant and equipment PPE business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any PPE is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and minority interest.
Acquisition related costs are expensed.
accumulated impairment losses, except for land and assets in the course of construction, which are not depreciated and The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than acquisition of the items.
In addition, subsequent costs are the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that the income statement.
future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the Goodwill income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable Depreciation on assets is calculated using the straight-line assets of the acquired subsidiary undertaking at the date method to allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiary over its estimated useful life, as follows: undertakings is included in intangible assets.
Freehold buildings and long leaseholds 35 50 years Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment Short leaseholds over the period and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
of the lease Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the Plant and machinery 7 10 years carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Fixtures and fittings 5 7 years Computer hardware 3 5 years Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units or groups of Motor vehicles 4 years cash-generating units CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
Each of those CGUs represents the lowest level within The residual values and useful lives of PPE are reviewed and the Group at which the associated goodwill is monitored for adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
Wolseley plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Group accounting policies continued Year ended 31 July 2010 Borrowing costs directly attributable to the long-term Impairment of assets construction or production of an asset are capitalised as part Assets that have an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, of the cost of the asset.
are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment and whenever events or changes in circumstance Leased assets indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where Assets that are subject to amortisation and assets under substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the construction are tested for impairment whenever events or asset have transferred to the Group, are capitalised in the changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount balance sheet and depreciated over the shorter of the lease may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for term or their useful lives.
The asset is recorded at the lower the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of payments at the inception of the lease.
The capital elements an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
of future obligations under finance leases are included in liabilities in the balance sheet and analysed between current Inventories and non-current amounts.
The interest elements of future Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable obligations under finance leases are charged to the income value.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO statement over the periods of the leases and represent a method or the average cost method as appropriate to the constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments nature of the transactions in those items of inventory.
The cost outstanding in accordance with the effective interest rate of goods purchased for resale includes import and custom method.
duties, transport and handling costs, freight and packing Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and costs and other attributable costs less trade discounts, rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
The cost of operating leases net of any incentives received Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the from the lessor is charged to the income statement on a ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling straight-line basis over the periods of the leases.
Assets and disposal groups held for sale Taxation Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount Current tax represents the expected tax payable or will be recovered by sale rather than by continuing use in recoverable on the taxable income for the year using tax the business.
Where a group of assets and their directly rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet associated liabilities are to be disposed of in a single date and taking into account any adjustments arising from transaction, such disposal groups are also classified as held prior years.
For this to be the case, the asset or disposal group Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on must be available for immediate sale in its present condition, temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and management must be committed to and have initiated a and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated plan to sell the asset or disposal group which, when initiated, financial statements.
Deferred tax is not accounted for if it was expected to result in a completed sale within 12 months.
arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a Assets that are classified as held for sale are not depreciated.
transaction, other than a business combination, that at the Assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair profit or loss.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have Associates been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred influence but not control, generally accompanying a tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that shareholding of between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the future taxable profit will be available against which the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for temporary differences can be utilised.
using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in in the foreseeable future.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
74 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Derivative financial instruments Pensions and other post-retirement benefits Derivative financial instruments, in particular interest rate swaps and currency swaps, are used to manage the financial Contributions to defined contribution pension plans and other risks arising from the business activities of the Group and the post-retirement benefits are charged to the income statement financing of those activities.
There is no trading activity in as incurred.
For defined benefit pension plans and other retirement At the inception of a hedging transaction entailing the use of benefits, the cost is calculated annually using the projected derivative financial instruments, the Group documents the unit credit method and is recognised over the average relationship between the hedged item and the hedging expected remaining service lives of participating employees, instrument together with its risk management objective and in accordance with the recommendations of independent the strategy underlying the proposed transaction.
The current service cost of defined benefit also documents its assessment, both at the inception of the plans is recorded within operating profit.
The total expected hedging relationship and subsequently on an ongoing basis, return from pension scheme assets less the total interest on of the effectiveness of the hedge in offsetting movements in pension scheme liabilities is recorded within finance revenue the fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
if a gain and finance costs if an expense.
Past service costs resulting from enhanced benefits are recorded within Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and operating profit and recognised on a straight-line basis over liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet the vesting period, or immediately if the benefits have vested.
Where derivative financial instruments do not fulfil the Actuarial gains and losses, which represent differences criteria for hedge accounting contained in IAS 39, changes in between the expected and actual returns on the plan assets their fair values are recognised in the income statement.
and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions, are When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging recognised in full in the statement of comprehensive income in relationships are classified as fair value hedges, cash flow the period in which they occur.
The defined benefit liability or hedges or net investment hedges.
Where the hedging asset recognised in the balance sheet comprises the net total relationship is classified as a fair value hedge, the carrying for each plan of the present value of the benefit obligation at amount of the hedged asset or liability is adjusted by the the balance sheet date, less any past service costs not yet increase or decrease in its fair value attributable to the hedged recognised, less the fair value of the plan assets, if any, at the risk and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income balance sheet date.
Where a plan is in surplus, the asset statement where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, it recognised is limited to the amount of any unrecognised past will be offset by the change in the fair value of the hedging service costs and the present value of any amount which the instrument.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge Group expects to recover by way of refunds or a reduction in accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a future contributions.
hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss over the period to maturity.
Where Trade receivables the hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow hedge or Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and as a net investment hedge, to the extent the hedge is measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective effective, changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for arising from the hedged risk are recognised directly in equity impairment of trade receivables is established when there is rather than in the income statement.
When the hedged item is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all recognised in the financial statements, the accumulated gains amounts due according to the original terms of the and losses recognised in equity are either recycled to the receivables.
Examples of such evidence include significant income statement or, if the hedged item results in a nonfinancial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor financial asset, are recognised as adjustments to its initial will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or carrying amount.
When a hedging instrument expires or is delinquency in payments.
The amount of the provision is the sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge difference between the assets carrying amount and the accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the the original effective interest rate.
The amount of the loss is forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected written off against the provision when recoverability is to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in assessed as being remote.
Subsequent recoveries of equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
amounts previously written off are credited to the income statement.
Wolseley plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Group accounting policies continued Year ended 31 July 2010 Construction loans Share capital Construction loan receivables are secured loans made to The Company has two classes of shares, ordinary and builders to finance the construction of properties or the deferred shares, which are both classified as equity.
These receivables are financed from bank Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new facilities which have a purpose clause under which the Group shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from can borrow to finance construction loan receivables, but only the proceeds, net of tax.
to the extent that it has sufficient receivables to offset these borrowings.
This clause has the consequence that any Where any group company purchases the Companys equity borrowings designated for this purpose are repayable when share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, the corresponding receivables are either collected or go into including any directly attributable incremental costs net of default.
In the latter case, amounts not expected to be tax, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys recoverable have to be funded from the Groups normal equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or facilities.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly Accordingly, the Group restricts the amount designated as attributable incremental transaction costs and the related tax construction loan borrowings to the recoverable amount of the effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys loan portfolio.
This amount is then disclosed separately in the equity holders.
financial statements as it is not considered part of the Groups net debt.
The construction loan borrowings are classified as a Borrowings current liability since the amounts are repayable when the corresponding receivables are collected, and the receivables Borrowings are recognised initially at the fair value of the are classified as current assets.
consideration received net of transaction costs incurred.
Construction loan receivables are recognised initially at fair Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost with value and measured subsequently at amortised cost using any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
and the redemption value being recognised in the income A provision for impairment of construction loan receivables is statement over the period of the borrowings using the established when there is objective evidence that the Group effective interest method.
will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group original terms of the receivables.
Examples of such evidence has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for include significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments.
The amount of the Financial assets provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows The Group classifies its financial assets in the following collectible from the debtor or recoverable from the disposal categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: of the asset on which the receivable is secured, discounted loans and receivables: held-to-maturity investments: and at the original effective interest rate.
The amount of the loss available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends is recognised in the income statement.
Construction loan on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
receivables are written off against the provision when Management determines the classification of its financial recoverability is assessed as being remote.
Subsequent assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited at every reporting date.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Cash and cash equivalents This category comprises financial assets held for trading which have been acquired principally for the purpose of Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits selling in the short term.
Derivatives also fall within this held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid category unless they are designated as hedges and the investments with original maturities of three months or less, hedge is effective for accounting purposes.
Assets in this and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within category are classified as current.
borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet to the extent that there is no right of offset and no practice of net settlement with cash balances.
76 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 b Loans and receivables Provisions Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with Provisions for environmental restoration, restructuring costs, fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an product and service warranties and legal claims are active market and with no intention of trading.
They are recognised when the Group has a present legal or included in current assets, except for maturities greater than constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more 12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classified likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required as non-current assets.
Construction loans are shown to settle the obligation, and the amount can be reliably separately on the balance sheet.
Other loans and receivables estimated.
Such provisions are measured at the present value are included in trade and other receivables in the balance of managements best estimate of the expenditure required to sheet.
settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date.
The discount rate used to determine the present value reflects c Held-to-maturity investments current market assessments of the time value of money.
Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed Provisions for insurance represent an estimate, based maturities that the Groups management has the positive on historical experience, of the ultimate cost of settling intention and ability to hold to maturity.
They are included in outstanding claims and claims incurred but not reported at the non-current assets unless the investment is due to mature balance sheet date on certain risks retained by the Group.
within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
d Available-for-sale financial assets Share-based payments Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the assets that are either designated in this category or not Groups executive share option, long-term incentive and classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in employee share purchase schemes.
The Group recognises a non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of compensation cost in respect of these schemes that is based the financial asset within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
on the fair value of the awards, measured using BlackScholes, Binomial and Monte Carlo valuation methodologies.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus For equity-settled schemes, the fair value is determined at transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value the date of grant including the impact of any non-vesting through profit or loss.
Financial assets are derecognised when conditions such as a requirement for employees to save and the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have is not subsequently re-measured unless the conditions on expired or have been transferred and the Group has which the award was granted are modified.
For cash-settled transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
schemes, the fair value is determined at the date of grant and Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair is re-measured at each balance sheet date until the liability is value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair settled.
Generally, the compensation cost is recognised on a value.
Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Adjustments are investments are subsequently carried at amortised cost using made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the the effective interest method.
Realised and unrealised gains vesting period due to the failure to satisfy service conditions and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the or non-market performance conditions.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are included in the income statement in the period in which Dividends payable they arise.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in the Groups in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as financial statements in the period in which the dividends are available-for-sale are recognised in equity.
When securities approved by the shareholders of the Company generally in classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the the case of the final dividend or paid in the case of interim accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income dividends.
statement as gains and losses from investment securities.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a Group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss, measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss, is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Wolseley plc 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
