Operational Operational performance performance Operational Value creation 3 Operational performance Strategy performance nit it it Within With Within Within Withi ithin hin Cr C Cr Cr Cr Cr Cr Cr ross o oss oss oss o oss ss ss ss s s buisiness unit b bui buisines inessu s unit unit unit t buisiness unit bu bui buisine bu sines sines sine s unit Resource Business unit Within Cross allocation strategies buisiness unit buisiness unit Pr Pro otable table See pageg gr 5 rowth owth for Value Creation model We will focus on each business units strategy to ensure that we are our customers distributor of choice, in our chosen markets, by delivering the best customer service and best vendor management through the best people in our industry.
Within business units Gain share of existing customers and gain Best customer service new customers Wolseley is a relationship business andthere is a strong correlation in Our objective for each successful businesses between business unit strategy is to satisfied customers and profitable growth.
Our focus is to meet our grow profitably faster than customers needs better than the ourcompetition.
Our business competition ensuring we deliver the islocal in the sense that the right products, at the right price, at the majority of our 1 million right time, on every occasion they do business with us.
During the year we customers travel less than have implemented regular customer 20miles to reach a branch.
surveys in all of our business units Our objective therefore in sowe can take actions to improve everybranch is togain a ourperformance.
Best branch staff greater share of our existing customers business and In order to achieve the best customer alsogain new customers service in the industry we need to have the right talent with relevant training, byproviding the best local skills and competence in our locations.
customer service, delivered Within each of the business units there bythe best branchstaff in the is a strong focus on ensuring that industry.
Underpinning this is training programmes and tools are available for our people so they are alow cost, efficient operating equipped to give the best service in model which ensures we are theindustry.
competitive and can attract favourable terms from our vendors.
Preferred vendor Our strategy is to drive improvements in customer Our vendors need distributors who service, branch staff and can give them access to many smaller customers cost effectively.
We want vendor relationships in every to build strong relationships with business.
Thisis explained our vendors, grow our business with inmore detail opposite and them and benefit from improved some examples are outlined terms and rebates.
inthe Our business section on pages 14 to 25.
08 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Cross-business unit There are two primary areas where crossbusiness unit synergies can be achieved by being part of the Group.
Management synergies such as sharing best practice management development and corporate finance.
Operating synergies in the areas of joint sourcing, own label development and the sharing of costs and infrastructure.
The performance review process is highlighting the key areas of best practice where we believe we can achieve the greatest benets across theGroup.
Some examples of current projects are outlined in the review of our operations onpages14 to 25.
Most efficient Beat the operating model best local Our objective is to operate thelowest cost, most efficient competitor operating model in our industry.
This means ensuring that ourdistribution activities benetfrom national scale andan efficient supply chain either through a network of distribution centres or direct deliveries from our vendors tothe customer.
Wolseley plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
