Forward-looking statements Certain information included in this Annual Report and Accounts is forward-looking and involves risks, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forwardlooking statements.
Forward-looking statements cover all matters which are not historical facts and include, without limitation, projections relating to results of operations and financial conditions and the Companys plans and objectives for future operations, including, without limitation, discussions of expected future revenues, nancing plans, expected expenditures and divestments, risks associated with changes in economic conditions, the strength of the plumbing and heating and building materials market in North America andEurope, uctuations in product prices and changes in exchange and interest rates.
Forward-looking statements can be identied by the use offorward-looking terminology, including terms such as believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, forecasts, intends, plans, projects, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
All forward-looking statements in this Annual Report and Accounts are based upon information known tothe Company on the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only at their respective dates.
Additionally, forward-looking statements regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts shall exclude any liability under applicable laws that cannot be excluded in accordance with such laws.
144 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Credits Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com Board photography by Andy Wilson Paper This report is printed on Revive 50:50 paper and cover board, with Revive PureWhite Uncoated used in the financial section.
Revive 50:50 is made from50 per cent recovered waste bre and 50 per cent virgin wood bre.
Revive Pure White Uncoated is made from 100 per cent fide-inked postconsumer waste.
Both products are fully biodegradable and recyclable andproduced in mills which hold ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 accreditation.
Printing Printed by St Ives Westerham Press.
The printing inks are made with nonhazardous vegetable oil from renewable sources.
Over 90 per cent of solvents and developers are recycled for further use and recycling initiatives are in place for all other waste associated with this production.
St Ives Westerham Press is FSC and ISO 14001 certied with strict procedures in place to safeguard the environment through all processes.
The greenhouse gas emissions from the production and distribution of this Annual Report and Accounts have been neutralised through a methane capture project in Texas, USA.
Wolseley plc Parkview 1220 Arlington Business Park Theale Reading RG7 4GA United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 118 929 8700 Fax 44 0 118 929 8701 Registration No.
