How were rewarded Compensation Committee report onbehalfofthe Board Dear share owner What changed in 2010?
ollowing a very challenging 2009, the performance of Details of all elements of compensation and any changes the Group improved considerably in 2010.
The design made to them are set out in the following pages.
To summarise, F of compensation policy at WPP ensures that there is a the key decisions and changes to compensation during the clear and direct link between the performance of the Group year were as follows: and executive compensation throughout the Group.
In 2010, the fees of the chairman and the non-executive directors, the strong performance of the Group therefore resulted in both all of which have been in place since 1 January 2007, were increased incentive levels for management and strong returns increased with effect from January 2011: for share owners.
The use of performance-driven compensation bonuses for 2010 performance were larger than those in ensures the continued alignment of share owner and executive 2009, reflecting the strong Group performance over the year.
interests and is essential to enable the Company to attract, In accordance with the Companys policy, a substantial retain and motivate the most gifted talent in the industry.
proportion of the 2010 bonus was paid in the form of deferred shares that vest two years after grant: changes to the compensation packages for the executive 2010 highlights directors were considered and increases in base salary for both Paul Richardson and Mark Read were agreed and The committees work during 2010 included: implemented, with effect from January 2011: and a review of the total compensation packages of the executive a review of the Group chief executives overall incentive directors relative to the marketplace to ensure competitiveness: structure commenced and is continuing.
The committee the approval of all stock plan awards used to attract, intends to consult share owners on this subject before the retain, reward and motivate employees: proposals are finalised.
The final changes agreed will be a review of the fees of the chairman and the non-executive disclosed in the 2011 Compensation Committee report.
directors: As always, I would like to thank my fellow committee the approval of all incentive payments, payable in cash members, Philip Lader, Esther Dyson, Tim Shriver and or in shares, for senior executives throughout the Group Colin Day, as well as Bud Morten, the former chairman of and setting appropriate performance targets for the Group the committee, for their continued support.
The committees chief executive and the other executive directors: thanks also go to Marie Capes the Company Secretary, approving the deferral and further deferral of significant Mark Linaugh the chief talent officer and Derek Steptoe share incentive awards by the Group chief executive: and the worldwide compensation & benefits director.
implementation of clawback provisions in the Companys senior management share incentive plans.
Jeffrey Rosen Chairman of the Compensation Committee 18 April 2011 WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 135
