About share ownership  Access numbers Ticker symbols Tax information NASDAQ Reuters Bloomberg Ordinaryshares WPP.
L WPPLN UK taxation  WPPGY WPPGY.
O WPPGYUS Income tax credits on dividends For dividends received direct from WPP plc or from WPP Online information DAS Limited via the Dividend Access Plan, the tax credit available to individual share owners resident in the UK is WPPs public website, www.
com, provides current one-ninth of the dividend: tax credits are not repayable to and historical financial information, news releases, UK holders with no tax liability.
Individuals whose income trading reports and share price information.
Go to is within the lower or basic tax rate bands are liable to tax www.
at 10% on the dividend income and the tax credit will satisfy their income tax liability on UK dividends.
For higher tax rate payers the rate of tax on dividend income for dividends Registrar and transfer office received on or after 6 April 2010 is either 32.5% or 42.5% for individuals with income of 150,000 or more, with relief Computershare Investor Services Jersey Limited available for the tax credit referred to above.
The gross Queensway House amount of the dividend will be regarded as the top slice of Hilgrove Street the WPP share owners income and will be subject to UK St Helier income tax as set out above.
Jersey Dividends paid by WPP plc will generally be subject to JE1 1ES Irish dividend withholding tax DWT at the standard rate Enquiry number: 0870 707 1411 of income tax currently 20% unless the share owner is within one of the categories of exempt share holders as provided in Irish law or by virtue of a relevant tax treaty.
American Depositary Receipts ADRs office DWT is not payable where an exemption applies provided that WPP plc has received all necessary documentation Citibank N. A. required by the relevant legislation from a WPP share PO Box 43077 owner prior to the payment of the dividend.
Share owners Providence are advised to consult their professional advisors on this RI 02940-3077 point.
Where a non-Irish resident share owner is entitled to exemption from DWT but DWT has to be deducted Telephone enquiries: within the US 1 877 248 4237 from the dividend by WPP, a claim may be made for a Telephone enquiries: outside the US 1 781 575 4555 refund of the DWT to the Irish tax authorities.
com Dividends received from WPP plc by individual share owners resident in the UK will generally be subject to UK income tax on the gross amount of any dividends paid by WPP registered office WPP before deduction of Irish withholding tax if any with a tax credit equal to one-ninth of the dividend received.
22 Grenville Street UK resident WPP share owners may be able to apply for an St Helier exemption from withholding taxes under Irish domestic law Jersey JE4 8PX or the UK-Ireland double tax treaty.
Her Majestys Revenue & Customs will generally give credit such credit being The Companys registered number is 101749. limited to the UK-Ireland double tax treaty rate for any Irish DWT withheld from the payment of a dividend if any and not recoverable from the Irish tax authorities against the UK income tax payable in respect of the gross amount of the dividend.
