Our 2010 financial statements Accountingpolicies In the current year IFRS 2 amended Share-Based Directors responsibility statement Payment became effective.
The adoption of this Standard has not led to any changes in the Groups accounting policies.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: The Group adopted IFRS 3 revised Business the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the Combinations and IAS 27 revised Consolidated and applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair Separate Financial Statements during the year.
The revisions view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or to these standards applied to business combinations loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the completed after 1 January 2010.
The main impact of these consolidation taken as a whole: and revised standards was as follows: the management report, which is incorporated into the In the year to 31 December 2010, all acquisition-related Directors report, includes a fair review of the development costs have been recognised as an operating cost in the and performance of the business and the position of the consolidated income statement whereas previously they were Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation capitalised.
Prior periods have not been restated as this taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal change in accounting is required to be applied prospectively risks and uncertainties they face.
from 1 January 2010: The term minority interest has been changed to non-controlling interest: Sir Martin Sorrell Paul Richardson Contingent consideration payable is to be measured at Group chief executive Group finance director fair value at the acquisition date.
Any subsequent movements 18 April 2011 in the fair value of such consideration as a result of postacquisition events must be recognised as a gain or loss in the consolidated income statement: Equity interests held prior to control being obtained are re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date, with any resulting gain or loss recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The Group excludes such gains or losses from headline profits: Changes in ownership interest in a subsidiary that does not result in a change of control are treated as transactions among equity holders and are reported within equity shareowners funds.
No gain or loss is recognised on such transactions and goodwill is not re-measured: and Cash consideration for non-controlling interests is classified as a financing activity rather than an investing activity in the consolidated cash flow statement.
Prior periods have been restated accordingly as this change in disclosure is required to be applied retrospectively.
Critical judgements in applying accounting policies Management is required to make key decisions and judgements in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The most significant areas where such judgements have been necessary are revenue recognition, goodwill and other intangibles, acquisition reserves, taxation and accounting for pension liabilities.
Where judgement has been applied, the key factors taken into consideration are disclosed in the accounting policies and the appropriate note in these financial statements.
