About share ownership  Access numbers Ticker symbols Tax information NASDAQ Reuters Bloomberg Ordinaryshares WPP.
L WPPLN UK taxation  WPPGY WPPGY.
O WPPGYUS Income tax credits on dividends For dividends received direct from WPP plc or from WPP Online information DAS Limited via the Dividend Access Plan, the tax credit available to individual share owners resident in the UK is WPPs public website, www.
com, provides current one-ninth of the dividend: tax credits are not repayable to and historical financial information, news releases, UK holders with no tax liability.
Individuals whose income trading reports and share price information.
Go to is within the lower or basic tax rate bands are liable to tax www.
at 10% on the dividend income and the tax credit will satisfy their income tax liability on UK dividends.
For higher tax rate payers the rate of tax on dividend income for dividends Registrar and transfer office received on or after 6 April 2010 is either 32.5% or 42.5% for individuals with income of 150,000 or more, with relief Computershare Investor Services Jersey Limited available for the tax credit referred to above.
The gross Queensway House amount of the dividend will be regarded as the top slice of Hilgrove Street the WPP share owners income and will be subject to UK St Helier income tax as set out above.
Jersey Dividends paid by WPP plc will generally be subject to JE1 1ES Irish dividend withholding tax DWT at the standard rate Enquiry number: 0870 707 1411 of income tax currently 20% unless the share owner is within one of the categories of exempt share holders as provided in Irish law or by virtue of a relevant tax treaty.
American Depositary Receipts ADRs office DWT is not payable where an exemption applies provided that WPP plc has received all necessary documentation Citibank N. A. required by the relevant legislation from a WPP share PO Box 43077 owner prior to the payment of the dividend.
Share owners Providence are advised to consult their professional advisors on this RI 02940-3077 point.
Where a non-Irish resident share owner is entitled to exemption from DWT but DWT has to be deducted Telephone enquiries: within the US 1 877 248 4237 from the dividend by WPP, a claim may be made for a Telephone enquiries: outside the US 1 781 575 4555 refund of the DWT to the Irish tax authorities.
com Dividends received from WPP plc by individual share owners resident in the UK will generally be subject to UK income tax on the gross amount of any dividends paid by WPP registered office WPP before deduction of Irish withholding tax if any with a tax credit equal to one-ninth of the dividend received.
22 Grenville Street UK resident WPP share owners may be able to apply for an St Helier exemption from withholding taxes under Irish domestic law Jersey JE4 8PX or the UK-Ireland double tax treaty.
Her Majestys Revenue & Customs will generally give credit such credit being The Companys registered number is 101749. limited to the UK-Ireland double tax treaty rate for any Irish DWT withheld from the payment of a dividend if any and not recoverable from the Irish tax authorities against the UK income tax payable in respect of the gross amount of the dividend.
WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 191 About share ownership  Capital gains tax Capital gains The market value of an ordinary share at 31 March 1982 As liability to capital gains tax on a disposal of WPP shares was 39p.
Since that date rights issues have occurred in will depend on individual circumstances, share owners are September 1986, August 1987 and April 1993.
For capital advised to consult their professional advisors.
gains tax purposes the acquisition cost of ordinary shares is adjusted to take account of such rights issues.
Since any Scrip dividend adjustments will depend on individual circumstances, share Subject to share owner approval at the Companys Annual owners are advised to consult their professional advisors.
General Meeting, the Board also proposes to put in place a scrip dividend scheme which will enable share owners to elect Republic of Ireland taxation to receive new fully paid ordinary shares in the Company instead of cash dividends, commencing with the second Income tax credits on dividends interim dividend for 2010.
Details of the scrip dividend An Irish resident or ordinarily resident individual WPP share scheme, including the taxation of the scrip dividend and owner who is an individual who does not make, or is not details of the election date for the proposed scrip dividend deemed to have made, an election to receive dividends via the alternative in respect of the second interim dividend for 2010, Dividend Access Plan will be subject to Irish income tax on will be sent to share owners together with the notice of the the gross dividend at their marginal rate of tax plus the health Companys Annual General Meeting.
levy and, in certain circumstances, PRSI pay related social insurance.
The gross dividend is the dividend received plus DWT withheld.
Irish resident individual WPP share owners are generally entitled to credit for the DWT deducted against their income tax liability and to have refunded to them any amount by which DWT exceeds such income tax liability.
If a WPP share owner makes, or is deemed to have made, an election in accordance with the terms of the Dividend Access Plan in respect of dividends to be paid by WPP, such WPP share owner will receive dividends direct from WPP DAS Limited.
No DWT will be levied on dividends paid by WPP DAS Limited.
An Irish resident or ordinarily resident individual WPP share owner who receives dividends from WPP DAS Limited via the Dividend Access Plan will be taxed upon the cash dividend received at their marginal rate of tax plus the health levy and, in certain circumstances, PRSI.
Irish resident taxpayers will not be entitled to claim credit for, or repayment of, the one-ninth UK tax credit attaching to such dividends for UK tax purposes.
