Our 2010 financial statements Accountingpolicies Derecognition of financial liabilities client.
Where we act as an agent, the revenue recorded is the net amount retained when the fee or commission is earned.
In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Although the Group may bear credit risk in respect of these Recognition and Measurement, a financial liability of the activities, the arrangements with our clients are such that Group is only released to the consolidated income statement we consider that we are acting as an agent on their behalf.
when the underlying legal obligation is extinguished.
In such cases, costs incurred with external suppliers such as media suppliers are excluded from our revenue.
Where the Group acts as a principal and contracts directly with Convertible debt suppliers for media payments and production costs, the revenue recorded is the gross amount billed.
Convertible debt is assessed according to the substance of Incentive-based revenue typically comprises both the contractual arrangements and is classified into liability quantitative and qualitative elements: on the element related and equity elements on the basis of the initial fair value to quantitative targets, revenue is recognised when the of the liability element.
The difference between this figure quantitative targets have been achieved: on the element and the cash received is classified as equity.
related to qualitative targets, revenue is recognised when The consolidated income statement charge for the finance the incentive is received or receivable.
cost is spread evenly over the term of the convertible debt so The Group receives volume rebates from certain suppliers that at redemption the liability equals the redemption value.
for transactions entered into on behalf of clients that, based on the terms of the relevant contracts and local law, are either remitted to clients or retained by the Group.
If amounts are Bank borrowings passed on to clients they are recorded as liabilities until settled or, if retained by the Group, are recorded as revenue Other interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are when earned.
recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Consumer Insight Borrowing costs Revenue recognised in proportion to the level of service performed for market research contracts is based on Finance costs of borrowing are recognised in the consolidated proportional performance.
In assessing contract performance, income statement over the term of those borrowings.
both input and output criteria are reviewed.
Costs incurred are used as an objective input measure of performance.
The primary input of all work performed under these arrangements Revenue recognition is labour.
As a result of the relationship between labour and cost, there is normally a direct relationship between costs Revenue comprises commission and fees earned in respect incurred and the proportion of the contract performed to of amounts billed.
Direct costs include fees paid to external date.
Costs incurred as a proportion of expected total costs suppliers where they are retained to perform part or all of is used as an initial proportional performance measure.
a specific project for a client and the resulting expenditure is This indicative proportional performance measure is directly attributable to the revenue earned.
Revenue is stated subsequently validated against other more subjective criteria exclusive of VAT, sales taxes and trade discounts.
i. e. relevant output measures such as the percentage of interviews completed, percentage of reports delivered to a Advertising and Media Investment Management client and the achievement of any project milestones stipulated in the contract.
In the event of divergence between the objective Revenue is typically derived from commissions on media and more subjective measures, the more subjective measures placements and fees for advertising services.
Revenue may take precedence since these are output measures.
consist of various arrangements involving commissions, fees, While most of the studies provided in connection incentive-based revenue or a combination of the three, as with the Groups market research contracts are undertaken agreed upon with each client.
in response to an individual clients or group of clients Revenue is recognised when the service is performed, specifications, in certain instances a study may be developed in accordance with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
as an off-the-shelf product offering sold to a broad client The amount of revenue recognised depends on whether we base.
For these transactions, revenue is recognised when the act as an agent or as a principal in an arrangement with a product is delivered.
Where the terms of transaction provide 152 WPP ANNUALREPORT2010
