Our 2010 financial statements Accountingpolicies statement if the benefits have vested.
If the benefits have and the year-end net assets of these companies are translated not vested, the costs are recognised over the period until at year-end exchange rates.
The interest cost and the expected return Exchange differences arising from retranslation of the on assets are shown within finance costs and finance income opening net assets and on foreign currency borrowings respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised to the extent that they hedge the Groups investment in immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
such operations are reported in the consolidated statement Where defined benefit plans are funded, the assets of of comprehensive income.
the plan are held separately from those of the Group, in Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the separate trustee-administered funds.
Pension plan assets acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term Share-based payments to the plan liabilities.
The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments Recognition of a surplus in a defined benefit plan is including share options to certain employees and accounts limited based on the economic gain the company is expected for these awards in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-Based to benefit from in the future by means of a refund or Payment.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured reduction in future contributions to the plan, in accordance at fair value excluding the effect of non-market-based with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
vesting conditions at the date of grant.
Details regarding the fair value of equity settled share-based transactions are set out in notes 22 and 26.
Finance leases The fair value determined at the grant date is recognised in the consolidated income statement as an Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets expense on a straight-line basis over the relevant vesting of the Group at the inception of the lease at the lower period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of of their fair value and the present value of the minimum shares that will ultimately vest and adjusted for the effect lease payments.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged of non-market-based vesting conditions.
to the consolidated income statement on the same basis as owned assets.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the interest is charged New IFRS accounting pronouncements to the consolidated income statement as it is incurred.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations, which have not Operating leases been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: Operating lease rentals are charged to the consolidated IFRIC 14 amended IAS 19 amended : The Limit on income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements Any premium or discount on the acquisition of a lease is and their Interaction: spread over the life of the lease on a straight-line basis.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments: IFRS 7 amended : Financial Instruments: Disclosure: Translation of foreign currencies IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: IAS 1 amended : Presentation of Financial Statements: Foreign currency transactions arising from normal trading IAS 12 amended : Income Taxes: activities are recorded at the rates in effect at the date of IAS 24 revised : Related Party Transactions: the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in IAS 32 amended : Classification of Rights Issues.
foreign currencies at the year end are translated at the year-end The Group does not consider that these Standards and exchange rate.
Foreign currency gains and losses are credited Interpretations will have a significant impact on the financial or charged to the consolidated income statement as they arise.
statements of the Group except for additional disclosures The income statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings when the relevant standards come into effect for periods are translated into pounds sterling at average exchange rates commencing on or after 1 January 2011.
