Financial Statements Financial Statements 83 Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is stated at cost less impairment.
Prior to 1 April 2004, goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful economic life.
Amortisation ceased on 1 April 2004 and the carrying value of existing goodwill was frozen at that date and subject to annual impairment review.
On acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired business at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill arises when the fair value of the consideration given for a business exceeds the fair value of the net assets.
In accordance with IFRS 3, Business combinations, goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is subject to impairment review both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill that arose prior to 1 April 1997 was written off to retained earnings loss.
profit or loss on disposal of the underlying businesses to which this goodwill related will not include goodwill previously recorded as a deduction from equity.
Acquired customer relationships Acquired customer relationships consist of intangible assets arising on the consolidation of recently acquired business, principally future order books, that do not appear within the balance sheet of the acquired entity itself, and which are separable from goodwill in accordance with IFRS 3, Business combinations and IAS 38, Intangible assets.
Customer relationships are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives of between one and three years.
Corporate information systems In accordance with IAS 38, Intangible assets, the Groups corporate information systems are treated as an intangible asset.
Costs included are those directly attributable to the design, construction and testing of new systems including major enhancements and internally generated costs from the point of inception to the point of satisfactory completion where the probable future economic benets arising from the investment can be assessed with reasonable certainty at the time the costs are incurred.
Maintenance and minor modications are expensed in the income statement as incurred.
The corporate information systems are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic life of six years.
Software licences Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specic software.
These costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives of between two and five years.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Cost comprises purchase price after discounts and rebates plus all directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis calculated at annual rates to write off the cost less residual value of each asset over the term of its estimated useful economic life as follows: Freehold buildings 10 to 50 years Short leasehold over the life of the lease Plant and machinery 3 to 10 years Special-purpose industrial motor vehicles 3 to 12 years Other motor vehicles 3 to 4 years Information technology 2 to 5 years No depreciation is provided in respect of freehold land.
The directors annually review the estimated useful economic lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment.
Impairment Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are reviewed for impairment annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment wherever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identiable cash ows cash-generating units.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairments.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
