64 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued of non-material systems or project services, Allan Cook wrote to the Companys that may be awarded with the approval of major institutional investors following his the executive directors within certain limited appointment as chairman-elect, setting out his financial parameters and other work, such as and the Boards commitment to shareholder the provision of material systems or project engagement and offering to meet with them services, that requires specic approval of the to gain a better understanding of their views.
Certain work, such as providing Representatives covering over 33% of the bookkeeping services, is prohibited.
The issued share capital of the Company accepted Committee also regulates the appointment of the offer and have now met with him to former employees of the independent auditor discuss their views.
The feedback from these to positions in the Group.
The Committee meetings has been discussed by the Chairman regularly reviews all fees for non-audit work with the Board.
paid to the independent auditor.
Details of these fees can be found in note 5 to the The non-executive directors are also kept Financial Statements page 93. informed of the views of shareholders with the executive directors providing updates The independent auditor also operates on investor meetings.
The Groups broker procedures designed to safeguard its provides briengs to the Board on shareholder objectivity and independence.
These include opinions and compiles independent feedback the periodic rotation of the audit partner, from investor meetings.
use of independent concurring partners, use of a technical review panel where Following the appointment of Allan Cook, appropriate and annual independence the Board engaged a third party to conduct conrmations by all staff.
The independent an independent appraisal of shareholder external auditor reports to the committee engagement by the Company.
The results on matters including independence and of this appraisal were presented to the Board non-audit work on an annual basis.
D. 2 Constructive use of the AGM D. Relations with shareholders The Companys shareholders are invited D. 1 Dialogue with institutional to attend the AGM at which all directors shareholders are present.
Shareholder participation is The Board regards effective communication encouraged by enabling proxy votes to with shareholders as key.
Relations with be lodged online via the Companys share shareholders are managed principally by the portal, www.
chief executive and Group finance director.
Meetings are held regularly throughout the Statement of compliance with year with institutional investors, fund the Combined Code managers and analysts.
The Groups website Throughout the year ended 31 March 2010 contains information on current business the Company complied with the provisions activities including the annual and half-year of Section 1 of the Code.
Approved by the Board and signed on its The chairman, senior independent director and behalf by other non-executive directors make themselves available for meetings with major shareholders.
Richard Webster This provides shareholders with the Company secretary opportunity to take up with these individuals 16 June 2010 any issue they feel unable to raise with the chief executive or Group finance director.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
