80 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Foreign currency transactions and translation Functional and presentation currency Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys and Groups functional and presentation currency.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash ow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Group companies Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Trading results of overseas subsidiaries are translated at average rates of exchange.
Differences resulting from the retranslation of opening net assets and results for the period at closing rates are taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
Operating segments IFRS 8, Operating segments, replaces IAS 14, Segment reporting.
It requires a management approach under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
This has resulted in an increase in the number of reportable segments presented as the previously reported Middle East, China and Europe segment has been split into Middle East and China and Europe.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker CODM.
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identied as the chief executive and the Group finance director.
The Group is organised into seven operating segments for management purposes, reecting its key markets and service offerings.
The segments are: Design and Engineering Solutions: Highways and Transportation: Rail: Middle East: China and Europe: Management and Project Services: and Asset Management.
These segments form the basis for reporting the Groups segment information as it is the main determinant of the Groups risks and returns.
The Group considers the United Kingdom to be its country of domicile.
No other single country contributes more than 10% of the Groups revenue or non-current assets.
Inter-segment transfers and transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
Revenue Revenue from long-term contracts comprises the value of work performed during the period calculated in accordance with the Groups policy for contract accounting set out below.
Revenue from other contract activities represents fee income receivable in respect of services provided during the period.
Under certain services contracts, the Group manages customer expenditure and is obliged to purchase goods and services from third-party contractors and recharge them on to the customer at cost.
The amounts charged by contractors and recharged to customers are excluded from revenue and cost of sales where the Group is acting as an agent.
Receivables, payables and cash relating to these transactions are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Revenue recognition and contract accounting The value of contract work in progress comprises the costs incurred on contracts plus an appropriate proportion of overheads and attributable profit.
Fees invoiced on account are deducted from the value of work in progress and the balance is separately disclosed in trade and other receivables as amounts recoverable on contracts, unless such fees exceed the value of the work in progress on any contract when the excess is separately disclosed in trade and other payables as fees invoiced in advance.
profit is recognised on a percentage completion basis when the outcome of a contract or project can be reasonably foreseen.
Provision is made in full for estimated losses.
Where the outcome of a contract cannot be reasonably foreseen, profit is taken on completion.
Where contracts span two or more accounting periods, profit is not generally recognised until the contract is 50% complete.
Revenue recognition on outsourcing contracts is determined by reference to the proportion of the annual service delivered to date.
Where the costs of obligations in relation to the non-renewal or termination of a contract are higher in the final period of the contract a proportion of revenue is deferred each period to meet these anticipated costs.
Full provision is made for losses on outsourcing contracts if the forecast costs of fullling the contract throughout the contract period exceed the forecast income receivable.
In assessing the amount of the loss to provide on an outsourcing contract, account is taken of the Groups share of the forecast results from any Joint Ventures which the contract is servicing.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
