126 Investor Information Investor Information Investor relations website Giving your shares to charity WS Atkins plc Many commonly asked shareholders If you only have a small number of shares Registered in England.
questions are addressed in the investor whose value makes it uneconomic to sell Company no.
1885586 relations section of our website them, you may wish to consider donating www.
com investors them to charity though ShareGift, an Company secretary independent share donation scheme.
and registered ofce E-communications The relevant share transfer form can be Shareholders can choose to receive all obtained from the Registrar.
ShareGift Richard Webster Company communications electronically.
is administered by The Orr Mackintosh WS Atkins plc To register please visit our share portal at Foundation, registered charity number Woodcote Grove www.
Further information may be Ashley Road obtained on 44 0 20 7930 3737 or Epsom Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP from www.
org Surrey KT18 5BW The Company offers a dividend reinvestment plan to shareholders as a cost-efficient Identity theft Financial calendar way of increasing their shareholding in the Identity theft is on the increase.
Criminals Ex-dividend date 18 August 2010 Company.
Should you wish to participate may steal your personal information, Record date 20 August 2010 in the DRIP please contact the Registrar putting your Atkins shareholding at risk.
Annual General Meeting 9 September 2010 on the telephone number given above to Final dividend request a mandate form and an explanatory Tips for protecting your Atkins shares: payment date 24 September 2010 booklet.
Your completed mandate form must be received by the Registrar no later s Ensure all your certicates are kept in a Shareholder services than 25 August 2010 if you wish your final safe place or hold your shares electronically dividend for the year to be reinvested to in CREST via a nominee.
s Keep all correspondence from the Registrar Enquiries and notications concerning that shows your shareholder reference dividends, share certicates, transfers and Amalgamation of accounts number in a safe place, or destroy your address changes should be sent to the Shareholders who receive duplicate sets correspondence by shredding it.
Registrar, whose address is: of Company mailings owing to multiple s If you change address inform the accounts in their name should write to Registrar in writing or via our share portal Capita Registrars the Registrar to have their accounts www.
s Know when dividends are paid and Woodsome Park consider having your dividend paid directly Fenay Bridge Unsolicited mail into your bank account.
This will reduce Hudderseld The Company is obliged by law to make the risk of the cheque being intercepted West Yorkshire its share register available to third parties or lost in the post.
If you change your HD8 0GA who may then use it for a mailing list.
If you bank account, inform the Registrar of the are a UK shareholder and you wish to limit details of your new account.
You can do Telephone: 0871 664 0300 UK callers, receipt of unsolicited mail you may do so this by post or online using our share portal calls cost 10p per minute including VAT plus by registering with the Mailing Preference www.
com Respond any additional network charges, lines are Service MPS.
Registration can be made to any letters the Registrar sends you open 0830 to 1730 Monday to Friday or online at www.
telephone on 0845 703 4599. s If you receive a letter from the Registrar regarding a change of address or a dividend Other shareholder enquiries should be instruction but have not recently moved addressed to Atkins company secretary or requested a change to how you receive at the registered ofce.
your dividends please contact them immediately as you may have been a victim of identity theft.
s If you are buying or selling shares only deal with brokers registered in your country of residence or the UK.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
