Subsidiary undertakings The following companies were the principal subsidiary undertakings as at 31 March 2010: Country of Class and registration percentage incorporation of shares held Nature of business Atkins China Limited China 100% ordinary Consulting engineers Atkins Facilities Management Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Property services 1 Atkins Investments Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Investment company 1 Atkins Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Consulting engineers Atkins Investments UK Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Holding company 1 Faithful & Gould Inc USA 100% ordinary Project and programme management consultants 1 Faithful Gould Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Quantity surveyors and cost estimators 1 WS Atkins & Partners Overseas Gibraltar 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 WS Atkins Insurance Guernsey Limited Guernsey 100% ordinary Insurance 1 WS Atkins International Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1.
Owned by a subsidiary undertaking other than WS Atkins plc.
The percentage of the issued share capital held by the Group is equivalent to the percentage of voting rights held.
The Group holds the whole of all classes of issued share capital.
All the above operate in the country of registration, except for WS Atkins & Partners Overseas, which operates in the Middle East.
A full list of subsidiary companies will be led at Companies House with the Companys Annual Return.
Joint Ventures The following represents the principal Joint Ventures in which the Group participated during the year: Date of last audited Proportion of financial External 2 Name Nature of business shares held statements auditors 1 RMPA Holdings Limited Holding company for companies involved in the design, nancing and construction of the MoD garrison facility at Colchester.
14.0% 31 Mar 2009 KPMG Audit PLC Connect Plus Services unincorporated Joint Venture undertaking operation and maintenance on the M25 over the next 30 years.
n a n a n a All Joint Ventures operate in the United Kingdom unless otherwise stated.
Proportion of shares held is in respect of ordinary share capital.
There are no special rights or constraints on the shares.
There are no restrictions on distributions from any of these Joint Ventures.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
