Financial Statements Financial Statements 79 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2010 1.
Accounting policies WS Atkins plc is a public limited company which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered ofce is Woodcote Grove, Ashley Road, Epsom, Surrey KT18 5BW, England.
Basis of preparation The Consolidated Financial Statements of WS Atkins plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modied by the valuation of pensions, share-based payments and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Material estimates applied across the Groups businesses and Joint Ventures are reviewed to a common standard and adjusted where appropriate to ensure that consistent treatment of similar and related issues that require judgement is achieved upon consolidation.
Any revisions to estimates are recognised prospectively.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Consolidated Financial Statements, are disclosed under Critical Accounting Policies on page 33 of the Business Review.
Basis of consolidation The accounting policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented including the application of new IFRSs and interpretations.
The Consolidated Income Statement and Balance Sheet include the accounts of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings and its share of Joint Ventures.
The results of the subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition.
The results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the year are included in the income statement up to the date of disposal.
Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Goodwill is reviewed on nalisation of fair values and any adjustments required to the accounting are recorded within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Where subsidiaries adopt accounting policies that are different from the Group, their reported results are restated to comply with the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation.
Where subsidiaries do not adopt accounting periods that are co-terminous with the Groups, results and net assets are based upon accounts drawn up to the Groups accounting reference date based on unaudited accounts.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred.
The accounts of the Employee benefit Trusts EBTs are incorporated into the results of the Group as, although they are administered by independent trustees and their assets are held separately from those of the Group, in practice the Groups advice on how the assets are used for the benefit of employees is normally accepted.
The Group bears the major risks and rewards of the assets held by the EBTs until the shares vest unconditionally with the employees.
Shares in WS Atkins plc held by the EBTs are shown as a reduction in retained loss earnings.
Other assets and liabilities held by the EBTs are consolidated with the assets of the Group.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
