Financial Statements Financial Statements 81 Interest income is recognised on a time-apportionment basis using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash ow discounted at the original effective interest rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as interest income.
Interest income on impaired loans is recognised using the original effective interest rate.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Pre-contract costs The Group accounts for all pre-contract costs in accordance with IAS 11, Construction contracts.
Costs incurred before it becomes probable that a contract will be obtained are charged to expenses.
Directly attributable costs incurred after that point are recognised in the balance sheet and charged to the income statement over the duration of the contract or, in the case of PPP PFI concessions, over the same period as the Groups interest in any Special Purpose Company SPC charges the equivalent capitalised amounts to the income statement.
Bid recovery fees are deferred and credited to the income statement over the duration of the contract or, in the case of PPP PFI concessions, over the same period as the Groups interest in any SPC charges the equivalent capitalised amounts to the income statement.
Where the Groups interest in any SPC reduces, the deferred bid recovery fees are credited to the income statement in proportion to the reduction of the Groups interest.
Exceptional items Where certain expense or revenue items recorded in a period are material by their size or incidence, the Group reects such items as exceptional items and these are shown separately in the income statement.
Exceptional items are also summarised by class in the segmental analyses, excluding those that relate to interest and tax.
Retirement benefit schemes The Group operates dened contribution and dened benefit pension schemes which require payments to be made into separately administered funds.
For dened benefit schemes, regular valuations are prepared by independent professionally qualied actuaries to determine the level of contributions required to fund the benets set out in the scheme rules.
The Group accounts for pensions in accordance with IAS 19, Employee benets.
The cost of the dened contribution schemes is charged to operating profit as incurred.
The cost of the dened benefit schemes is charged as follows: s the current service cost incurred during the period to provide retirement benets to employees is charged to operating profit s gains or losses arising from settlements or curtailments not covered by actuarial assumptions are included in operating profit s a charge representing the expected increase in scheme liabilities is included in net finance costs.
This is based on the present value of scheme liabilities at the beginning of the period s a credit representing the expected return on scheme assets is included within net finance costs.
This is based on the market value of the assets of the schemes at the start of the period allowing for expected cash ows during the period.
For dened benefit schemes, all actuarial gains and losses asset experience, liability experience and changes in assumptions are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
The difference between the market value of scheme assets and the present value of scheme liabilities is recognised as a retirement benefit asset or liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
To the extent that it is recoverable, any related deferred tax asset or liability is included in the relevant category of receivable payable.
The Group has elected to recognise actuarial gains and losses in full as they arise through retained loss earnings.
Share-based payments In accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based payments, the cost of share-based payments awarded after 7 November 2002 is charged to the income statement over the performance and vesting periods of the instruments.
The cost is based on the fair value of the awards made at the date of grant adjusted for the number of awards expected to vest.
In accordance with the transitional provisions within IFRS 2, no charge is made in respect of instruments awarded before 7 November 2002.
The credits associated with the amounts charged to the income statement are included in retained earnings loss until the awards are exercised.
Where awards are settled by new issue shares any proceeds received in respect of share options are credited to share capital and share premium.
Where awards are settled in shares held by the EBTs any proceeds are credited to retained earnings loss.
Share awards are granted by the Parent Company to employees of its subsidiaries.
The Company charges to cost of investment in subsidiaries an amount equivalent to the equity-settled element of the annual IFRS 2 charge, with an equivalent credit to reserves in accordance with IFRIC 11, Group and treasury share transactions.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
