84 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Financial assets The Group classies its financial assets into the following two categories: at fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets Level 1 is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from on exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
The quoted market price used by the Group is the mid-market price.
The fair values of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market Level 2 are determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on estimates.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included within current assets except where the maturity is greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date in which case they are included as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables consist of trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents, which are shown separately within the balance sheet.
Trade receivables are recognised at original invoice amount less provision for impairment, which, due to their short-term nature, approximates to their fair value.
Other receivables include loan notes receivable in respect of disposals, which are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any provision for impairment.
This valuation approximates to their fair value.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Any impairment is charged to the income statement.
Impairment testing for trade receivables is described below in the accounting policy paragraph relating to trade receivables.
Inventories Inventories are stated at cost less impairment.
Cost is calculated on a first-in, first-out basis.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised at original invoice amount.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, demand deposits and short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignicant risk of changes in value.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments are initially accounted for and measured at fair value on the date a contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
Where a derivative is designated as a fair value hedge and is assessed as being effective in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement, the gain or loss on re-measurement is recognised in the income statement together with the corresponding changes in the fair value of the hedged item that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Where a derivative is designated as a cash ow hedge and is assessed as being effective in accordance with IAS 39, the gain or loss on re-measurement is recognised in equity.
Amounts accumulated in equity are transferred to the income statement when the underlying transaction being hedged occurs or, if the transaction results in the creation of a non-financial asset or liability, are included in the initial cost of the asset or liability.
Where the derivative is designated as a hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation and is assessed as being effective in accordance with IAS 39, the gain or loss on re-measurement is recognised in equity.
Amounts accumulated in equity are transferred to the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
Similar treatment is applied where the hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation is a non-derivative financial instrument such as a foreign currency loan.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
