Financial Statements Financial Statements 85 Lease obligations Finance leases Lease arrangements that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee are treated as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised within property, plant and equipment and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the useful life of the asset.
A liability is recognised for the present value of the minimum lease payments within current and or non-current liabilities as appropriate.
Rental payments are apportioned between capital and interest expense to achieve a constant rate of interest charge on the outstanding obligation.
Where the Group acts as a lessor in a finance lease, receivables under finance leases represent outstanding amounts due under these agreements less finance charges allocated to future periods.
Finance lease interest is recognised over the primary period of the lease so as to produce a constant rate of return on the net cash investment.
Operating leases Where the Group acts as lessee in an operating lease arrangement, the lease payments are charged as an expense to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives received are also recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Where the Group acts as lessor in an operating lease arrangement, rental income from operating leases is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Lease incentives provided are also recognised over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognised at original invoice amount.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Onerous contract provisions are recognised for losses on contracts where the forecast costs of fullling the contract throughout the contract period exceed the forecast income receivable.
In assessing the amount of the loss to provide on any contract, account is taken of the Groups share of the forecast results from any Joint Ventures which the contract is servicing.
The provision is calculated based on discounted cash ows to the end of the contract.
Vacant property provisions are recognised when the Group has committed to a course of action that will result in the property becoming vacant.
The provision is calculated based on discounted cash ows to the end of the lease.
Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups Financial Statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Application of new IFRSs and interpretations a The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective in the current financial year and have been adopted by the Group: s IFRS 8, Operating segments effective 1 January 2009 IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14, Segment reporting.
It requires a management approach under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
The impact of these changes is detailed in the operating segments accounting policy.
s IAS 1 revised, Presentation of financial statements effective 1 January 2009 The revised standard prohibits the presentation of items of income and expenses that is, non-owner changes in equity in the statement of changes in equity, requiring non-owner changes in equity to be presented separately from owner changes in equity in a statement of comprehensive income.
As a result the Group presents in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity all owner changes in equity, whereas all non-owner changes in equity are presented in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Comparative information has been re-presented so that it is also in conformity with the revised standard.
As the change in accounting policy only impacts presentation aspects, there is no impact on earnings per share.
s Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures effective 1 January 2009 The amendment requires enhanced disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
In particular, the amendment requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of a fair value measurement hierarchy.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
