82 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Joint Ventures In accordance with IAS 31, Interests in Joint Ventures, the Group accounts for Joint Ventures under the equity method of accounting.
The Groups share of a Joint Ventures profit after tax is included from the date on which the Group acquires joint control.
Within the Consolidated Balance Sheet the investment is recorded at cost classied as a non-current asset and subsequently adjusted to reect the Groups share of the movements in the Joint Ventures net assets post acquisition.
The results, assets and liabilities of Joint Ventures are stated in accordance with Group accounting policies.
Where Joint Ventures adopt accounting policies that are different from the Group, their reported results are restated to comply with the Groups accounting policies.
Where Joint Ventures do not adopt accounting periods that are co-terminous with the Groups, results and net assets are based upon unaudited accounts drawn up to the Groups accounting reference date.
PPP PFI concessions Assets constructed by PPP PFI concession companies are classied in the accounts of the Joint Ventures as financial assets or intangible assets, depending on whether the grantor or user has the primary responsibility to pay the operator for the concession services.
To date, all of the Groups PPP PFI concession assets have been classed as financial assets.
The financial asset represents an interest-bearing, long-term receivable.
The cost of the financial asset at any one time is equal to the accumulated value of service delivery plus accumulated interest charged to the financial asset less amounts received to date.
The financial asset is measured at fair value.
Where it is classed as a loan receivable any movement in fair value is taken to the income statement.
Where it is classed as available for sale any movement in fair value is taken to reserves.
Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received for goods and services provided in the normal course of business net of value-added tax rebates and discounts.
Revenue from contracting activities represents the value of work carried out during the year including amounts not invoiced.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying value amount.
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be measured reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date as measured by the contract costs incurred.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that contract costs incurred will be recovered.
When it is probable that the total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected resultant loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Income tax Current and deferred income tax are recognised in the income statement for the period except where the taxation arises as a result of a transaction or event that is recognised directly in equity.
Income tax arising on transactions or events recognised directly in equity is charged or credited directly to equity.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
However, the deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and Joint Ventures.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
