Governance Governance 59 Ed Wallis, chairman until 31 January 2010, A.
3 Board balance and independence The non-executive directors terms of usually spent two days per week on the The Board considers the independence of appointment are available for inspection business of the Group.
His successor, the non-executive directors annually against at the Companys registered ofce during Allan Cook, currently spends at least three the criteria set out in the Code with each normal business hours and also at the days per week with Atkins.
He has made being determined as independent of Companys AGM.
this additional time commitment to obtain a management having no business or other thorough understanding of the Group and relationship that could interfere materially During the year the Committee its operations, to meet staff and to engage with the exercise of their judgement.
recommended the appointment of with shareholders.
Allan Cook as a non-executive director Lord Boyce succeeded James Morley and chairman-elect with effect from On appointment, Allan Cook met the as senior independent director on 10 September 2009.
Ed Wallis did not attend independence criteria set out in the Code.
His responsibilities include meetings regarding the appointment of He also disclosed his other significant leading the non-executive directors his successor and these meetings were commitments to the Board prior to his annual consideration of the chairmans therefore chaired by James Morley initially, appointment and his current commitments performance.
Lord Boyce is also available and subsequently Lord Boyce, as senior are disclosed in his biography page 52.
The to shareholders in the event they feel independent director.
The Committee Board considers that these commitments it inappropriate to communicate via used an external search consultancy to do not hinder his ability to discharge his the chairman, the chief executive or assist in making the recommendation for responsibilities to the Company effectively.
As part of the Indeed, his involvement with organisations search process, the Committee prepared a job specication including a clear indication that promote the education of future Directors conicts of interest engineers complements the Groups Directors are required to notify the company of the time commitment expected.
The Board believes that Allan Cook will be a efforts to promote engineering and secretary of any potential conicts of interest technical professions.
when they are appointed to the Board and, considerable asset to the Company, bringing his experience to bear as it continues to following appointment, as new potential The chief executive is responsible for the conicts arise.
These notications are then grow the business.
operational management and leadership considered and authorised by the Board as of the Group.
In addition, the Company has A.
5 Information and professional development and recommending the Groups strategy put in place an annual process to review for Board approval in addition to executing conict authorisations with the last review The company secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all governance the approved strategy.
The chief executive undertaken in October 2009. coordinates the operational management matters and, under the chairmans direction, is also responsible for ensuring of the Group via the Group Executive, A.
4 Appointments to the Board the membership of which includes the Allan Cook, Keith Clarke, Lord Boyce, Fiona that relevant information ows within and between the Board, its committees, managing directors of the Groups principal Clutterbuck, Joanne Curin, Raj Rajagopal businesses, the Group finance director, and Sir Peter Williams are members of the the non-executive directors and senior management function effectively.
the Group HR director and the Group Nomination Committee.
Ed Wallis was communications director.
Those members committee chairman until his retirement On joining the Board, directors take part of the Group Executive who are not from the Board on 31 January 2010 with directors of the Company meet with the Allan Cook succeeding him as chairman.
This includes the provision of past Board materials to Board at least biannually and proactively James Morley was a member of the engage with the non-executive directors.
committee until his retirement from the provide background information on the Group, information on Board processes Board on 30 June 2009.
The Committees responsibilities include: and governance framework, site visits and meetings with employees.
The induction s reviewing the structure, size and is tailored to each new directors specic needs with Allan Cook in the process composition of the Board s identifying and nominating candidates of completing and Heath Drewett having undertaken a comprehensive for appointment to the Board s ensuring planned and orderly succession induction programme.
s making recommendations to the Board regarding the continuing service of directors and, if appropriate, their re-election to the Board, subject to shareholder approval.
See pages 52 to 53 for Directors biographies WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
