126 Investor Information Investor Information Investor relations website Giving your shares to charity WS Atkins plc Many commonly asked shareholders If you only have a small number of shares Registered in England.
questions are addressed in the investor whose value makes it uneconomic to sell Company no.
1885586 relations section of our website them, you may wish to consider donating www.
com investors them to charity though ShareGift, an Company secretary independent share donation scheme.
and registered ofce E-communications The relevant share transfer form can be Shareholders can choose to receive all obtained from the Registrar.
ShareGift Richard Webster Company communications electronically.
is administered by The Orr Mackintosh WS Atkins plc To register please visit our share portal at Foundation, registered charity number Woodcote Grove www.
Further information may be Ashley Road obtained on 44 0 20 7930 3737 or Epsom Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP from www.
org Surrey KT18 5BW The Company offers a dividend reinvestment plan to shareholders as a cost-efficient Identity theft Financial calendar way of increasing their shareholding in the Identity theft is on the increase.
Criminals Ex-dividend date 18 August 2010 Company.
Should you wish to participate may steal your personal information, Record date 20 August 2010 in the DRIP please contact the Registrar putting your Atkins shareholding at risk.
Annual General Meeting 9 September 2010 on the telephone number given above to Final dividend request a mandate form and an explanatory Tips for protecting your Atkins shares: payment date 24 September 2010 booklet.
Your completed mandate form must be received by the Registrar no later s Ensure all your certicates are kept in a Shareholder services than 25 August 2010 if you wish your final safe place or hold your shares electronically dividend for the year to be reinvested to in CREST via a nominee.
s Keep all correspondence from the Registrar Enquiries and notications concerning that shows your shareholder reference dividends, share certicates, transfers and Amalgamation of accounts number in a safe place, or destroy your address changes should be sent to the Shareholders who receive duplicate sets correspondence by shredding it.
Registrar, whose address is: of Company mailings owing to multiple s If you change address inform the accounts in their name should write to Registrar in writing or via our share portal Capita Registrars the Registrar to have their accounts www.
s Know when dividends are paid and Woodsome Park consider having your dividend paid directly Fenay Bridge Unsolicited mail into your bank account.
This will reduce Hudderseld The Company is obliged by law to make the risk of the cheque being intercepted West Yorkshire its share register available to third parties or lost in the post.
If you change your HD8 0GA who may then use it for a mailing list.
If you bank account, inform the Registrar of the are a UK shareholder and you wish to limit details of your new account.
You can do Telephone: 0871 664 0300 UK callers, receipt of unsolicited mail you may do so this by post or online using our share portal calls cost 10p per minute including VAT plus by registering with the Mailing Preference www.
com Respond any additional network charges, lines are Service MPS.
Registration can be made to any letters the Registrar sends you open 0830 to 1730 Monday to Friday or online at www.
telephone on 0845 703 4599. s If you receive a letter from the Registrar regarding a change of address or a dividend Other shareholder enquiries should be instruction but have not recently moved addressed to Atkins company secretary or requested a change to how you receive at the registered ofce.
your dividends please contact them immediately as you may have been a victim of identity theft.
s If you are buying or selling shares only deal with brokers registered in your country of residence or the UK.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Investor Information Investor Information 127 Warning to shareholders s The FSA also maintains on its website a list In recent years many companies have of unauthorised overseas rms who are become aware that their shareholders targeting, or have targeted, UK investors have received unsolicited telephone and any approach from such organisations calls or correspondence concerning should be reported to the FSA so that this investment matters.
These are typically list can be kept up to date and any other from overseas-based brokers who target appropriate action can be considered.
UK shareholders offering to sell them what The FSA can be contacted by completing often turn out to be worthless or high-risk an online form at www.
uk shares in US or UK investments.
These pages doing regulated law alerts operations are commonly know as overseas.
These brokers can be very s Inform our Registrar.
persistent and extremely persuasive and it has been reported that the average amount If you deal with an unauthorised rm you will lost by investors is around 20,000, with the not be eligible to receive payment under the largest individual loss being 1.2m.
It is not Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
just the novice investor who has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been Details of any share dealing facilities that successfully investing for several years.
the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings or on our website.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares More detailed information on this or similar at a discount or offers of free company activity can be found on the Consumer reports.
The following advice is provided: Financial Education Body website www.
uk s Only ever deal with companies authorised by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
You can check the register of authorised rms at www.
uk register s Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation who contacted you.
Call the organisation back using the telephone number listed for them on the FSA register to verify their identity.
s Callers may be persistent, so hang up the phone if they continue to contact you.
s Under normal circumstances authorised rms cannot make cold calls.
If you receive an uninvited call or email from an organisation of which you are not a customer, treat it with extreme caution and report the incident to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or by visiting www.
uk WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 128 Investor Information You can help us to reduce our environmental impact by opting to receive shareholder communications online at www.
com investors To help you nd the information youre looking for, the key features of our investor relations website are highlighted below Reports and presentations Corporate responsibility Our reports can be accessed Find out more about our and or downloaded from here.
Corporate Responsibility strategy and performance by visiting this Links to results presentations, section of our website.
videos, press releases and webcasts are also provided.
Share price Shareholders queries Chart showing one, two or three We provide a number of services months share price activity.
Click to help our shareholders the chart to see the share price manage their holdings, keep up table and to access our calculators.
to date with our progress and communicate with us.
Latest financial news Access our latest financial press releases here.
Register for ecomms You can help us to reduce our environmental impact by opting Alerts to receive electronic versions Receive automated announcements of shareholder communications and news by signing up to our ecomms.
We will donate 1 to RedR Register for Engineers for Disaster Relief for each shareholder who chooses this method of communication.
Investor information can also be viewed on your mobile phone at www.
mobi Share price charts Share price Latest news Investor relations team Calendar WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 This Annual Report is printed on Revive Pure White Uncoated, a 100% recycled paper made from post-consumer collected waste and manufactured to the certied environmental management system ISO 14001.
It is TCF Totally Chlorine Free, totally recyclable and has biodegradable NAPM recycled certication.
The Atkins logo, Carbon Critical Design and the strapline Plan Design Enable are trademarks of Atkins Limited, a WS Atkins plc company.
WS Atkins plc except where stated otherwise.
