Financial risk management Risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash ow interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board of directors.
Group Treasury identies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close cooperation with the Groups operating units.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specic areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
These policies are further described within the Treasury policies and objectives section of the Business Review.
Where individual sensitivities are disclosed below, all other variables are held constant.
a Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The Group operates in a number of international territories.
Each business undertakes a large proportion of its commercial transactions within its local market and in its local functional currency.
Foreign exchange risk arises from the small proportion of commercial transactions undertaken in currencies other than the local functional currency, from financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency and on the Groups net investments in foreign operations.
Group policy is for each business to undertake commercial transactions in its own functional currency whenever possible.
When this is not possible, the Group manages its foreign exchange risk from future commercial transactions using appropriate derivative contracts arranged via Group Treasury.
Cash ows are reviewed on a monthly basis throughout the duration of projects and the future cover amended as appropriate.
Trade receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency arise from commercial transactions and are therefore largely hedged as part of the process described above.
Remaining financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency include bank accounts, loans and intercompany funding balances.
These are unhedged, with the exception of balances that are themselves designated as hedging instruments used to hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
The Groups primary exposure to foreign exchange rate risk on unhedged financial instruments arises mainly in respect of movements between the US dollar including dollar-pegged currencies and sterling and between the euro and sterling.
At 31 March 2010, if sterling had strengthened weakened by 10% against the US dollar, then profit after tax would be higher lower by approximately 0.1m 2009: 0.1m lower higher and equity would be 0.1m higher lower 2009: 0.1m lower higher.
If sterling had strengthened weakened by 10% against the euro then profit after tax would be lower higher by approximately 0.5m 2009: 0.5m lower higher and equity would be 0.5m lower higher 2009: 0.5m lower higher.
ii Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to interest rate risk arises from loan notes, cash and cash equivalents and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss which are all interest bearing, offset in part by interest bearing borrowings.
The majority of items included in the above are at oating rates of interest or xed deposits for periods of less than six months: changes in the interest rate result in changes in interest-related cash ows.
No interest hedging is currently undertaken by the Group or its subsidiaries.
If interest rates for the year to 31 March 2010 had been 10 basis points higher lower, then profit after tax for the year would have been approximately 0.2m 2009: 0.2m higher lower, principally due to increased interest received on short-term bank deposits.
iii Price risk The Group does not have any equity securities in its balance sheet and is not materially exposed to commodity price risk.
Certain longer term project and framework contracts include indexation clauses that are applied to unit rates to offset the effect of ination on input costs over the duration of the agreement.
The Group is exposed to price risk to the extent that ination differs from the index used and forecast project outcomes that form the basis of revenue recognition include an estimate of this risk where it is present.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 88 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the Group will suffer financial loss as a result of counterparties defaulting on their contractual obligations.
The risk arises on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss, cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables, with the maximum exposure to risk equivalent to 100% of the carrying value disclosed in the Groups Balance Sheet at 31 March.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
The majority of the Groups cash deposits are placed with its relationship banks, which carry at least an A-1 P1 credit rating.
For deposits and money market investments placed with banks and financial institutions, only independently rated parties with a minimum rating of A are accepted.
Investments carry a minimum credit rating of A-1 P1.
Cash and investments are not concentrated with any one counterparty.
For trade and other receivables, an assessment of credit quality of the customer is made where appropriate using a combination of external rating agencies, past experience and other factors.
In circumstances where credit information is unavailable or poor, the risk is mitigated by use of advance payments and, by exception, through credit risk insurance.
Exposure and payment performance are monitored closely both at individual project and client level, with a series of escalating debt recovery actions taken where necessary.
The Groups customer base is broad and dispersed.
In view of current economic circumstances additional management attention has been focused on the recovery of debtors, in particular within the Middle East.
c Liquidity risk The Group funds its activities through cash generated from its operations and, where necessary, bank borrowings and finance leases.
The Groups banking facilities include cash facilities and bank guarantees.
Cash ow forecasts are prepared covering various periods from short to long term to ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet the Groups commitments as they fall due.
The table below analyses the maturity prole of the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities: On demand or within Between Between 2 Over 5 Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years and 5 years years Discount value 2010 m m m m m m Hire purchase and finance leases 4.2 2.3 4.1 0.8 0.7 10.7 Loan notes 0.8 0.1 0.7 Trade payables 50.6 50.6 On demand or within Between Between 2 Over 5 Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years and 5 years years Discount value 2009 m m m m m m Hire purchase and finance leases 5.4 3.6 4.2 1.2 0.7 13.7 Loan notes 2.9 0.7 0.2 3.4 Trade payables 64.4 64.4 d Concentrations of financial instruments The carrying amounts of the Groups financial assets and liabilities, excluding derivative financial instruments, were denominated in the following currencies: 2010 2009 Financial Financial Financial Financial assets liabilities assets liabilities m m m m Sterling 315.0 43.7 327.3 57.2 UAE dirham 56.8 3.7 67.6 7.8 US dollar 43.0 2.3 37.9 3.0 Euro 25.6 3.1 22.8 4.0 HK dollar 18.8 0.3 15.2 2.5 China RMB 18.1 0.9 14.2 0.5 Qatari rial 17.8 0.9 6.0 0.3 Denmark krone 12.7 4.1 11.2 3.3 Other 39.2 3.0 32.3 2.9 Total 547.0 62.0 534.5 81.5 The financial assets and liabilities of the Company are all denominated in sterling.
Financial assets consist of acquired loan notes: trade receivables net : intercompany receivables nil in consolidated accounts : amounts due from Joint Ventures: financial assets at fair values through profit or loss: and cash and cash equivalents.
Financial liabilities consist of trade payables: intercompany payables nil in consolidated accounts : amounts due to Joint Ventures: and borrowings.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
