64 Statement on Corporate Governance continued The Board through its Audit and Risk Committee reviews the effectiveness its internal control processes formally at least once a year.
The Committee also reviews aspects of the system on an ongoing basis at its meetings as part of its review of internal audit reports and of risk management reports and against operational outcomes.
It seeks the views of internal and external auditors upon the control system and how it compares with processes in other companies.
The system comprises principally: a risk identification, evaluation and management process: clear delegations and limits of authority: clear authorisation and review procedures: independent internal audits: regular review by the Audit and Risk Committee of risk registers, internal and external audit reports and fraud management reports: an independent whistleblowing hotline available to employees: regular divisional operating reviews attended by Group executive management: regular contract review meetings: monthly reporting of results against budget and forecast, with variances explained: an annual presentation on tax matters to the Board: regular reports to the Board on the Groups pension scheme exposures and risks: an annual report to the Board of the Groups insurance programme: monthly reports on disputes and litigation: a succession planning process: monthly reports to a Safety Leadership Team comprised of the Chief Executive and Divisional Managing Directors on health, safety and environmental matters: and bi-annual reports to the Board on health, safety and environmental matters.
The Groups systems can, however, only seek to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, as any system can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Identification and evaluation of risks and control objectives The identification and evaluation of risks and control objectives is also addressed on pages 42 to 45.
Budgets Comprehensive systems are in place to develop annual budgets and medium-term financial plans.
The budgets are reviewed by central management before being submitted to the Board for approval.
Updated forecasts for the year are prepared at least quarterly.
The Board is provided with details of actual performance each month compared with budgets, forecasts and the prior year, and is given a written commentary on significant variances from approved plans.
