Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement except when deferred in equity as part of the net investment of a foreign operation.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the balance sheets and income statements of foreign operations into Sterling are recognised as a separate component of equity on consolidation.
Results of foreign subsidiary undertakings are translated using the average exchange rate for the month of the applicable results.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at period end exchange rates.
Finance costs Finance costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred unless they are attributable to an asset under construction, in which case finance costs are capitalised.
Capitalisation of applicable interest commenced in 2009 2010.
Employee benefits a Pension obligations The Group operates a number of pension schemes.
The schemes are generally funded through payments to trusteeadministered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
The Groups current and past service cost and imputed interest on the defined benefit schemes obligations, net of the expected return on the schemes assets, are charged to operating profit within the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in equity through the Statement of comprehensive income so that the Groups balance sheet reflects the fair value of the schemes surpluses or deficits at the balance sheet date.
b Share-based compensation The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The economic cost of awarding shares and share options to employees is recognised as an expense in the income statement equivalent to the fair value of the benefit awarded.
The fair value is determined by reference to option pricing models.
The charge is recognised in the income statement over the vesting period of the award.
The shares purchased by the Groups ESOP trusts are recognised as a deduction to equity.
c Holiday pay Paid holidays are regarded as an employee benefit and as such are charged to the income statement as the benefits are earned.
Investments The accounting for investments is decided on a case by case basis depending on whether the investment is held for resale or other strategic reasons.
Derivative financial instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The Group designates certain of the derivative instruments within its portfolio to be hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or unrecognised firm commitments.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
