Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Exceptional items Items that are exceptional in size or nature are presented as exceptional items within the consolidated income statement.
The separate reporting of exceptional items helps provide a better indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
Events which may give rise to the classification of items as exceptional include gains or losses on the disposal of properties and businesses along with the restructuring of businesses and asset impairments.
Transactions with minorities The Group policy is to treat transactions with minorities as transactions with equity holders and therefore result in movements in reserves.
Goodwill and intangible assets a Goodwill When the fair value of the consideration for an acquired undertaking exceeds the fair value of its separable net assets, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill and is capitalised.
When the fair value of the consideration for an acquired undertaking is less than the fair value of its separable net assets, the difference is taken directly to the income statement.
Goodwill relating to acquisitions prior to 1 April 2004 is maintained at its net book value on the date of transition to IFRS.
From that date goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed at least annually for impairment.
b Acquired intangibles Intangible assets, which are capable of being recognised separately and measured reliably on acquisition of a business, are capitalised at fair value on acquisition.
These intangibles will include contracts and customer relationships.
Where these assets have a finite life, they are amortised over the period in which they are expected to generate benefits, but generally not exceeding ten years.
Customer contracts and relationships valued on acquisition are expected to generate higher benefits in the early years following such acquisition as the existing contracts unwind.
c Research and development Research expenditure is recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs incurred on development projects are recognised as intangible assets when it is probable that the project will be a success considering its commercial and technological feasibility, and only if the cost can be measured reliably.
Other development expenditure is recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs previously recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
Development costs that have been capitalised are amortised from the date the product is available for use on a straight-line basis over the period of its expected benefit but not exceeding seven years.
d Computer software Computer software is shown at cost less amortisation and is amortised over its expected useful lives of between three and five years.
Property, plant and equipment PPE Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less subsequent depreciation and impairment, except for land, which is shown at cost less impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to write off the cost of PPE over the estimated useful lives to their estimated residual value reassessed at each balance sheet date at the following annual rates: Freehold property 2% to 8% Leasehold property lease term Plant and equipment 6.6% to 33.3% PPE are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the fixed asset may not be recoverable.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount exceeds the higher of an assets fair value less cost to sell or value in use.
