88 Notes to the Group financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historic cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The Company is a public limited company, is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
Principal accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are disclosed below: Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements comprise the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings made up to 31 March.
a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
If however more than 50% of the voting rights are owned but the Group does not govern the financial and accounting policies then this investment is not consolidated as a subsidiary.
Acquisitions are included from the date of acquisition and the results of the businesses disposed of or terminated are included in the results for the year up to the date of relinquishing control or closure and analysed as continuing or discontinued operations.
b Joint ventures The Groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recorded at cost.
The Groups investment in jointly controlled entities includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
The Groups share of its jointly controlled entities post-acquisition profits or losses after tax is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its jointly controlled entity are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint controlled entity.
Revenue Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: a Sale of goods Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and can be reliably measured and recovery of consideration is considered probable.
b Sale of services Revenue from services rendered is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the transaction.
The provision of services over a long-term period are accounted for under the principles of construction contracts, and the revenue recognised as set out below.
c Long-term service contracts Revenue from long-term service contracts is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
The stage of completion is determined according to the nature of the specific contract concerned.
Methods used to assess the stage of completion include incurred costs as a proportion of total costs, labour hours incurred or earned value of work performed.
Profit attributable to the contract activity is recognised if the final outcome of such contracts can be reliably assessed.
An expected loss on a contract is recognised immediately in the income statement.
