90 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 1.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Leases Assets under finance leases are capitalised and the outstanding capital element of instalments is included in borrowings.
The interest element is charged against profits so as to produce a constant periodic rate of charge on the outstanding obligations.
Depreciation is calculated to write the assets off over their expected useful lives or over the lease terms where these are shorter.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement.
A provision is made where the operating leases are deemed to be onerous.
Inventory and work in progress Inventory is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a first-in first-out method.
In the case of finished goods and work in progress, cost comprises direct material and labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Contract accounting The Group presents as an asset the gross amount due from customers for contract work for all contracts in progress for which costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses exceed progress billings.
The Group presents as a liability the gross amount due to customers for contract work for all contracts in progress for which progress billings exceed costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses.
Pre-contract costs are recognised as expenses as incurred, except that directly attributable costs are recognised as an asset and amortised over the life of the contract when it can be reliably expected that a contract will be obtained and the contract is expected to result in future net cash inflows.
Taxation a Current income tax Current tax, including UK corporation tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
b Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group, and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Foreign currencies a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the local currency at the year end exchange rates.
