| 228 Financial statements Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements The Business review section of this report, comprising the Business, are not guarantees of future performance.
Our actual results of Strategy, Financial and Operating reviews, has been prepared in operations, financial condition, liquidity, dividend policy and the accordance with the Accounting Standards Board Reporting development of the industries in which we operate may differ Statement on Operating and Financial Reviews January 2006, as materially from the impression created by the forward-looking applicable best practice guidance for UK companies required to statements contained in this Annual Report.
Important factors that prepare a business review.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executives could cause these differences include, but are not limited to, general report and the business units' operating reviews, in particular the economic and business conditions, commodity price volatility, Strategy section, include an analysis of the main trends and factors industry trends, competition, changes in government and other likely to affect the future development, performance and position of regulation, including in relation to the environment, health and the business.
This includes statements that are, or may be deemed safety, taxation, labour relations and work stoppages, changes in to be, forward-looking statements.
We may also make written and political and economic stability, currency fluctuations, our ability to oral forward-looking statements in: integrate new businesses and recover our reserves or develop new reserves, and changes in business strategy or development plans and Q our interim reports, our summary financial statements to other risks, including those described in the Business review section shareholders, our offering circulars and our prospectuses: of this Annual Report.
Even if the results of operations, financial Q our press releases and other written materials: and condition, liquidity and dividend policy and the development of the industries in which we operate are consistent with the forwardQ oral statements made by our officers, directors or employees to looking statements contained in this Annual Report, those results or third parties, including to financial analysts.
developments may not be indicative of our results or developments These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use in subsequent periods.
of forward-looking terminology, including the words: believes, Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made.
estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, plans, goal, target, Other than in accordance with our legal or regulatory obligations aim, may, will, would, could or should or, in each case, their including under the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and negative or other variations or comparable terminology and include Transparency Rules, we do not undertake any obligation to update all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of places throughout this Annual Report and include statements of new information, future events or otherwise.
regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations and those of our officers, directors and employees concerning, amongst The Directors report in this Annual Report has been prepared for the other things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, members of the Company and its purpose is to assist shareholders prospects, growth, strategies and dividend policy and the industries to assess the Companys strategies and the potential for those in which we operate.
strategies to succeed and for no other purpose.
The Company, its By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and directors, employees, agents and advisers do not accept or assume uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and may be this Annual Report is shown or into whose access it may come, and beyond our ability to control or predict.
Forward-looking statements any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
Shareholder information Head office Registrars and transfer office Enquiries Shareholder calendar 2011 Bahnhofstrasse 2 Computershare Investor Claire Divver Annual General Meeting PO Box 102 Services PLC Tel: 44 20 7968 2871 4 May 2011 6301 Zug The Pavilions cdivver@xstrata.
com Fax: 44 0 870 703 6101 Registered office Telephone helpline: Brigitte Mattenberger 4th floor Panton House 44 0 870 707 1417 Tel: 41 41 726 6071 25 27 Haymarket bmattenberger@xstrata.
com London SW1Y 4EN United Kingdom www.
com Registered number 4345939 Design and production: Black Sun Plc, London UK This Report is printed on Heaven 42 paper.
This paper has been independently certified as meeting the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC, and was manufactured at a mill that is certified to the ISO14001 and EMAS environmental standards.
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO9001, ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral Xstrata plc Bahnhofstrasse 2 PO Box 102 6301 Zug Switzerland Tel: 41 41 726 6070 Fax: 41 41 726 6089 www.
