| 132 Financial statements Statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the Group and the Parent Company financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the In the case of the Companys UK GAAP financial statements, the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom directors are required to prepare financial statements for each law and regulations.
Under company law, the directors are financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs required to prepare Group financial statements in accordance of the Company and of the profit and loss of the Company for with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors the European Union IFRS and have elected to prepare Company are required to: financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Q select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
The directors must not consistently: approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Q make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and Company for prudent: and that period.
Q state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been In the case of the Groups IFRS financial statements, the directors are followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and required to prepare Group financial statements for each financial explained in the financial statements.
year that present fairly the financial position of the Group and the The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period.
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the In preparing the Group financial statements the directors are financial position of the Group and the Company and enable them required to: to ensure that the Group and Company financial statements and Q select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and and that the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the Errors and then apply them consistently: IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps Q present information, including accounting policies, in a for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Under applicable UK law and regulations the directors are responsible for the preparation of a Directors report, directors Q provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific Remuneration report and Corporate Governance report that comply requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand with the Companies Act 2006 and regulations.
In addition the the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and corporate and financial information included on Xstratas website.
Q state that the Group has complied with IFRS.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
