127 Notes to the Company financial statements 1.
Significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company are disclosed below: Basis of accounting The Companys financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and in compliance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors have reviewed the Companys existing accounting policies and consider that they are consistent with last year.
Investments Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment in value.
Leases Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement.
Taxation Current UK corporation tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
A deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associates only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable or a binding agreement to distribute past earnings in future has been entered into by the subsidiary or associate.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Finance costs Finance costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Employee benefits a Share-based compensation The Company operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The economic cost of awarding shares and share options to employees is recognised as an expense in the income statement equivalent to the fair value of the benefit awarded.
The fair value is determined by reference to option pricing models.
The charge is recognised in the income statement over the vesting period of the award and recharged to subsidiaries.
Full details of the share-based compensation plans are disclosed in note 26 of the Group financial statements.
b Treasury shares The shares purchased by the Companys ESOP trusts are recognised as a deduction to equity.
Refer to the Group financial statements note 25 for further details.
c Pension arrangement The Company operates a multi-employer defined benefit pension scheme.
The scheme is accounted for on a defined contribution basis as the Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities.
There is no material difference between the FRS 17 as amended : Retirement Benefits and IAS 19: Employee Benefits valuation.
Refer to the Group financial statements note 27 for further details.
As a result of the level of surplus the Companys compulsory contribution to the Babcock International Group Pension Scheme is currently suspended until at least the results of the next formal valuation are available although voluntary contributions have been made.
