81 The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance conditions to be attached to future PSP awards prior to the start of each cycle to ensure they remain appropriate.
No material reduction in targets would be made without prior consultation with shareholders.
Following a review ahead of any awards being made in 2010, the Committee has decided that for awards to which Company TSR and EPS growth performance measures are attached which will include those made to Executive Directors the approach taken shall be as used for the PSP awards made in 2009, but with maximum vesting in respect of the EPS growth test only if real annual compound growth is 12.5% or more over the performance period 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2013.
This represents an increase from the 11% real target applied to the 2009 awards.
The proposed measures are shown in the charts on page 80.
Why TSR and EPS for Executive Directors share awards?
The Committee considers the use of two measures, in the proportions used for the LTIP and PSP awards described in the tables above, to be appropriate.
The TSR performance measure is dependent on the Companys relative long-term share price performance and so provides strong alignment with shareholders interests.
The TSR calculation for both the LTIP and PSP awards would normally use a 12-month average for opening and closing share prices adjusted for dividends paid during the period.
The Company feels that this is the most appropriate period because a 12-month average ensures both that the short-term market volatility is excluded and that for each company a 12-month period will capture the impact of the announcement of results and payment of dividends.
A shorter period would not capture all these events and would not necessarily put all companies on an equal footing.
TSR is used in conjunction with EPS growth, which is the primary internal benchmark of financial performance and ties in with the Companys strategic goals.
Service contracts The following table summarises the key terms apart from as to remuneration, on which see above of the Directors service contracts or terms of appointment: Executive Directors Contractual Name Date of service contract Notice period retirement age Peter Rogers 31 July 2003 amended by 12 months from Company, 65 Chief Executive letters dated 5 May 2004 6 months from Director and 3 April 2006 Bill Tame 1 October 2001 amended by 12 months from Company, 65 Finance Director letters dated 5 May 2004 6 months from Director and 3 April 2006 Archie Bethel 21 April 2010 12 months from Company, 65 6 months from Director Chief Executive, Marine Division Kevin Thomas 20 April 2010 65 12 months from Company, 6 months from Director Chief Executive, Support Services Division The Companys policy is that Executive Directors service contracts should be capable of being terminated by the Company on not more than 12 months notice.
If the Company terminates a Directors service contract the Company will have regard to all the circumstances in determining the amount of compensation, including as to the scope for mitigation, if any, payable to him in connection with that termination.
The agreements for Peter Rogers and Bill Tame but not the agreements for Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas contain provisions that provide that within 90 days of the occurrence of the change of control, each may terminate his employment forthwith.
If he exercises this right, he is entitled, for a 12-month period, to be paid on a monthly basis his basic salary plus 40% compared to a maximum entitlement under the annual bonus scheme of 150% in lieu of bonus and all other contractual entitlements.
From this there is to be deducted any amount that the Director receives by way of income, if it exceeds 10% of his Babcock salary, from other sources that he would not have been able to earn had he continued in employment with the Company.
