92 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 1.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued For foreign exchange contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges, gains and losses are deferred in equity until such time as the firm commitment is recognised, at which point any deferred gain or loss is included in the assets carrying amount.
These gains or losses are then realised through the income statement as the asset is sold.
Certain derivatives do not qualify or are not designated as hedging instruments and any movement in their fair values is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which they are approved.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The key areas of estimates and judgements for the Group are contract accounting see above, the accounting for defined benefit pension schemes see note 27, impairment of goodwill see note 13 and income tax recognition.
Profit recognition on contracts is a key judgement exercised by management on a contract by contract basis.
In order to make such a judgement an estimate of contract outturn is made and for all significant contracts both local management and Group review and challenge estimates made.
Fair value adjustments on acquisitions are by nature subject to critical judgements.
The size of recent acquisitions make them significant in Group terms.
Standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards that are not yet effective Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2009 or later periods but which the Group has not early adopted.
a Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2009 with minimal or no impact on the Group: IFRS 2 amendment, Share based payments.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 Segmental reporting, and requires a management approach under which segmental information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
IAS 1 revised, Presentation of Financial Statements.
IAS 16 amendment, Property, plant and equipment and consequential amendment to IAS 7, Statement of cash flows.
IAS 20 amendment, Accounting for government grants and disclosure of government assistance.
IAS 24 amendment, Related party disclosures, effective 1 January 2011.
IAS 28 amendment, Investments in associates, and consequential amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation, and IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosure.
IAS 29 amendment, Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies.
IAS 31 amendment, Interests in joint ventures, and consequential amendments to IAS 32 and IFRS 7.
IAS 32 amendment, Financial instruments: presentation and IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation.
IAS 36 amendment, Impairment of assets.
IFRIC 12, Service concession arrangements IFRIC 14, IAS 19 Prepayment of a minimum funding requirement, effective from 1 January 2011.
IFRIC 16 amendment, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
