71 The increase for Peter Rogers was approximately 4% and for Bill Tame 2.5%.
The greater increase in Peter Rogerss salary was to take account of the fact that his basic salary had fallen relatively against sector peers.
The increase of 4% still leaves him below that median but the Committee thought it inappropriate in the current economic climate to make any larger increase.
Where pay increases have been approved across the wider group they have been in the order of 2%3% depending on business unit.
The salaries for Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas were set on their appointment to the Board on 1 May 2010.
Performance-related rewards Annual bonus schemes Following its detailed review of the structure of remuneration carried out in early 2009 and reported on last year, and to meet its framework for remuneration as described above, the Committee set maximum bonus opportunity for 2009 10 for Peter Rogers and Bill Tame at 150% of base salary.
Deferral: 40% of any annual bonus earned by Executive Directors and other senior executives must be deferred into Babcock shares for two years, with the shares being subject to potential forfeiture if the employee leaves in that time other than by reason of death, disability, redundancy, retirement or the company or business in which they are employed ceasing to be part of the Group.
The number of shares into which the bonus is deferred may be reduced by the Committee if the accounts by reference to which the bonus was calculated have to be materially corrected or if in the opinion of the Committee, there is evidence that performance against performance conditions in the bonus year, or the impact of that performance on the Group in respect of future financial years, was or will be materially worse than was believed to be the case at the time of the original assessment.
The shares will carry the right to dividends paid in the period of deferral payable only when the shares are released.
There is no provision for the Company to match these deferred shares on any basis.
The deferral is purely to ensure that a substantial part of the Directors bonus is exposed to the longer term impact of current year decision making and to align them with shareholders.
For the financial year 2009 10 the Committee set annual bonuses for Peter Rogers and Bill Tame structured as follows: Peter Rogers earned Bill Tame earned Element maximum as % of base salary Performance level achieved as a percentage of salary as a percentage of salary Achieving budgeted PBT 15% Maximum above budget 15% 15% Achieving budgeted cash flow 15% Maximum 15% 15% Growth in EPS year-on-year Maximum over 20% growth 90% 90% 90%, for 20% growth Non-Financial Objectives 30% Between target and maximum 85% Rogers 90% Tame 25.5% 27% Total 150% 145.5% 147% Profit before tax before amortisation of acquired intangibles, but, unless the Committee otherwise decides, after exceptional items.
Earnings per share before amortisation of acquired intangibles, but, unless the Committee otherwise decides, after exceptional items with maximum bonus only for year-on-year growth of 20% or more.
For divisional Managing Directors the annual bonus schemes include performance measures dependent on growth in divisional profits and or achievement of budgeted divisional profits and cash flow according to the objectives for the division concerned and have non-financial metrics forming a significant part 20% of the bonus opportunity.
The Committee intends to adopt a similar structure for bonus schemes for each of the Executive Directors for financial year 2010 11, with a maximum bonus opportunity of 150% for Peter Rogers and Bill Tame and 120% for Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas although the maxima differ, each scheme will have broadly the same proportionate split between financial and non-financial measures.
Long-term incentives Between 2003 and 2008 inclusive, qualifying Directors and certain senior Group employees were granted performancerelated long-term incentives in the form of annual awards of nil-price options under the Babcock 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan L-TIP.
Before 2003 they were granted performance-related market-priced share options under the Babcock 1999 Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Schemes.
