| 140 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
Corporate information Impairment testing Note 15 outlines the significant judgements and assumptions The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue made in performing impairment testing of non-current assets.
in accordance with a directors resolution on 16 March 2011.
The Changes in these assumptions may alter the results of impairment ultimate parent entity of the Group, Xstrata plc, is a publicly traded testing, impairment charges recorded in the income statement and limited company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled the resulting carrying values of assets.
Its ordinary shares are traded on the London and Swiss stock exchanges.
Share-based payments, defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement medical plans The principal activities of the Group are described in note 9.
Note 35 outlines the significant assumptions made when accounting for share-based payments, defined benefit pension plans and post- 2.
Statement of compliance retirement medical plans.
Changes to these assumptions may alter The consolidated financial statements of Xstrata plc and its subsidiaries the resulting accounting and ultimately the amount charged to the the Group are prepared in accordance with International Financial income statement.
Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations of the International 5.
Changes in accounting policies, new standards Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC, as adopted and interpretations not applied by the European Union, effective for the Groups reporting for Changes in accounting policies the year ended 31 December 2010.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are consistent with those followed in the 3.
Basis of preparation preparation of the Groups annual financial statements for the year The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which ended 31 December 2009, except for the adoption of the following is the parents functional and presentation currency, and all values are new standards and interpretations: rounded to the nearest million except where otherwise indicated.
IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Arrangements The accounting policies in note 6 have been applied in preparing the The Group adopted IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share-based consolidated financial statements.
Payment Arrangements which clarifies the accounting for Group cash-settled transactions.
This amendment also supersedes IFRIC 8 and IFRIC 11.
Significant accounting estimates amendment has no impact on Group earnings or equity The preparation of these financial statements requires management in the current or prior years.
to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement the disclosure of contingent liabilities, at the date of the financial Eligible Hedged Items Amendment statements.
Actual outcomes could differ from these estimates.
The Group adopted IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items Amendment which The below are the most critical judgements, estimates and assumptions: addresses the designation of a one-sided risk in a hedged item, Estimated recoverable reserves and resources and the designation of inflation as a hedged risk or a portion in Estimated recoverable reserves and resources are used to determine particular situations.
The adoption of this amendment has no the depreciation of mine production assets, in accounting for deferred impact on Group earnings or equity in the current or prior years.
stripping costs and in performing impairment testing.
Estimates are IAS 39 Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IFRS 39: Embedded Derivatives prepared by appropriately qualified persons, but will be impacted by The Group adopted IAS 39 Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IFRS 39: forecast commodity prices, exchange rates, production costs and Embedded Derivatives which clarifies where a prepayment recoveries amongst other factors.
Changes in assumptions will option is considered closely related to the host contract when impact the carrying value of assets and depreciation and impairment the exercise price reimburses the lender up to the approximate charges recorded in the income statement.
present value of lost interest for the remaining term of the host Environmental rehabilitation costs contract.
The adoption of this amendment has no impact on The provisions for rehabilitation costs are based on estimated future Group earnings or equity in the current or prior years.
costs using information available at the balance sheet date.
To the IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners extent the actual costs differ from these estimates, adjustments will The Group adopted IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to be recorded and the income statement may be impacted refer Owners which provides guidance on accounting for arrangements to note 32. whereby an entity distributes non-cash assets to shareholders either as distribution of reserves or as dividends.
The adoption of this amendment has no impact on Group earnings or equity in the current or prior years.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 141 Improvements to IFRSs issued 2009 Interests in joint ventures In May 2009 the IASB issued its second omnibus of amendments A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
There are separate transitional provisions The financial statements of the joint ventures are generally prepared for each amendment.
The adoption of the amendments resulted for the same reporting period as the Company, using consistent in changes to accounting policies but did not have any impact accounting policies.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any on the financial position or performance of the Group.
dissimilar accounting policies that may exist in the underlying records of the joint venture.
New standards and interpretations not applied The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and Jointly controlled operations interpretations with effective dates that are subsequent to A jointly controlled operation involves the use of assets and 1 January 2010.
Consequently, these pronouncements will other resources of the Group and other venturers rather than impact the Groups financial statements in future periods.
the establishment of a corporation, partnership or other entity.
Effective date The Group accounts for the assets it controls and the liabilities it IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Amendment 1 January 2011 incurs, the expenses it incurs and the share of income that it earns IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification from the sale of goods or services by the joint venture.
and Measurement 1 January 2013 IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Jointly controlled assets Requirement Amendment 1 January 2011 A jointly controlled asset involves joint control and ownership by IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with the Group and other venturers of assets contributed to or acquired Equity Instruments 1 July 2010 for the purpose of the joint venture, without the formation of a corporation, partnership or other entity.
With the exception of IFRS 9, the Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations on their The Group accounts for its share of the jointly controlled assets, effective dates will have a material impact on the Groups any liabilities it has incurred, its share of any liabilities jointly incurred financial statements in the period of initial application.
The with other venturers, income from the sale or use of its share of Group will quantify the effect of IFRS 9 in conjunction with the joint ventures output, together with its share of the expenses other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture.
incurred by the joint venture, and any expenses it incurs in relation to its interest in the joint venture.
Principal accounting policies Jointly controlled entities Basis of consolidation A jointly controlled entity involves the establishment of a corporation, The financial statements consolidate the financial statements of partnership or other legal entity in which the Group has an interest Xstrata plc the Company and its subsidiaries the Group.
All interalong with other venturers.
entity balances and transactions, including unrealised profits and losses arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated in The Group recognises its interest in jointly controlled entities using the proportionate method of consolidation, whereby the Groups full.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control passes.
Control is share of each of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the joint venture are combined with the similar items, line by line, in its achieved where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policy of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its consolidated financial statements.
This occurs when the Group has more than 50% voting When the Group contributes or sells assets to a joint venture, power through ownership or agreements, except where minority any gain or loss from the transaction is recognised based on the rights are such that a minority shareholder is able to prevent the substance of the transaction.
When the Group has transferred the Group from exercising control.
In addition, control may exist risk and rewards of ownership to the joint venture, the Group only without having more than 50% voting power through ownership recognises the portion of the gain or loss attributable to the other or agreements, or in the circumstances of enhanced minority rights, venturers, unless the loss is reflective of an impairment, in which as a consequence of fide facto control.
fide facto control is control case the loss is recognised in full.
When the Group purchases assets without the legal right to exercise unilateral control, and involves from the joint venture, it does not recognise its share of the profits decision-making ability that is not shared with others and the ability of the joint venture from the transaction until it resells the assets to to give directions with respect to the operating and financial policies of an independent party.
Losses are accounted for in a similar manner the entity concerned.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, unless they represent an impairment loss, in which case they are the financial statements include the results for the part of the reporting recognised immediately.
period during which Xstrata plc has control.
Subsidiaries use the same reporting period and same accounting policies as Xstrata plc.
Joint ventures are accounted for in the manner outlined above, until the date on which the Group ceases to have joint control over the joint venture.
| 142 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 6.
Principal accounting policies FRQWLQXHG When the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values attributable to the Groups share of the identifiable net assets, the difference Investments in associates is treated as purchased goodwill, which is not amortised but is Entities in which the Group has significant influence and which reviewed for impairment annually or where there is an indication are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, are associates, and of impairment.
If the fair value attributable to the Groups share are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
of the identifiable net assets exceeds the cost of acquisition, the Under the equity method of accounting, the investment in the difference is immediately recognised in the income statement.
associate is recognised on the balance sheet on the date of acquisition Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss at the fair value of the purchase consideration where this is higher and net assets in subsidiaries that are not held by the Group and than the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired, or, if the are presented in equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately purchase consideration is less than the fair value of the identifiable from the parents shareholders equity.
net assets acquired, at the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
In this way, goodwill is included within the associate When a subsidiary is acquired in a number of stages, the cost of balance when the fair value of the investment is less than the each stage is compared with the fair value of the identifiable net consideration paid.
The carrying amount is adjusted by the assets at the date of that purchase.
Any excess is treated as goodwill, Groups share of the post-acquisition profit or loss, depreciation, or any discount is immediately recognised in the income statement.
amortisation or impairment arising from fair value adjustments made On the date control is obtained, the identifiable net assets are at date of acquisition and certain inter-entity transactions together recognised in the Group balance sheet at fair value and the difference with a reduction for any dividends received or receivable from the between the fair value recognised and the value on the date of the associate.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in purchase is recognised in the income statement.
the equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of such Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchases changes in equity.
Any goodwill arising on such purchases The financial statements of the associates are generally prepared for is included within the carrying amount of the investment in the associates, but not thereafter amortised.
Any excess of the Groups the same reporting period as the Group, using consistent accounting policies.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar share of the net fair value of the associates identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of the investment is included accounting policies that may exist in the underlying records of the associate.
Where an associate prepares its financial statements using in income in the period of the purchase.
a different reporting period, an estimate of the Groups share of Foreign currencies the associates profit or loss is made based on the most reliable Financial statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are information available.
Adjustments are made in the consolidated maintained in their functional currencies and converted to US dollars financial statements to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised for consolidation of the Group results.
The functional currency of gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its associates.
each entity is determined after consideration of the primary The Group discontinues its use of the equity method from the date economic environment of the entity.
on which it ceases to have significant influence, and from that date Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange accounts for the investment in accordance with IAS 39 with its rates ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities initial cost being the carrying amount of the associate at that date, denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at year-end provided the investment does not then qualify as a subsidiary or exchange rates.
All differences that arise are recorded in the income joint venture.
statement except for differences arising on rehabilitation provisions The Groups income statement reflects the share of associates which are capitalised for operating mines.
Non-monetary assets results after tax and the Groups statement of recognised income measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date of the initial transactions.
and expense includes any amounts recognised by associates outside of the income statement.
Where non-monetary assets are measured at fair value in a foreign currency, they are translated at the exchange rates when the fair Business combinations value was determined.
Where the exchange difference relates to On the acquisition of a subsidiary, the acquisition method of an item which has been recorded in equity, the related exchange accounting is used, whereby the purchase consideration is difference is also recorded in equity.
allocated to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identifiable net assets on the basis of fair value at the date of On consolidation of foreign operations into US dollars, income acquisition.
Those mining rights, mineral reserves and resources statement items are translated at weighted average rates of exchange that are able to be reliably valued are recognised in the assessment where this is a reasonable approximation of the exchange rate at the of fair values on acquisition.
Other potential reserves, resources dates of the transactions.
Balance sheet items are translated at closing and mineral rights, for which in the Directors opinion values exchange rates.
Exchange differences on the re-translation of the cannot be reliably determined, are not recognised.
Acquisition investments in foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates at costs are expensed.
closing rates, together with differences between income statements translated at average and at closing rates, are recorded in a separate Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
Exchange differences relating to quasi-equity receivable, to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits inter-company loan balances with the foreign operations that form will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
part of the net investment in the foreign operation are also Sales revenue is recognised at the fair value of consideration received, recognised in this component of equity.
On disposal or partial which in most cases is invoiced amounts, with most sales being disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount priced free on board FOB, free on rail FOR or cost, insurance and recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation freight CIF.
Revenues from the sale of by-products are also included is recognised in the income statement.
Revenue excludes treatment and refining charges unless payment of these amounts can be enforced by the Group Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings to finance net at the time of the sale.
investments and tax charges credits attributable to those exchange differences are also recorded in a separate component of equity to For some commodities the sales price is determined provisionally the extent that the hedge is effective.
Upon full or partial disposal or at the date of sale, with the final price determined at a mutually repayment of the net investment in the foreign operation including agreed date, generally at a quoted market price at that time.
This loans that form part of the net investment, the cumulative amount contractual feature has the character of a commodity derivative.
of the exchange differences is recognised in the income statement As a result, the invoice price on these sales are marked-to-market when the gain or loss on disposal or the loan repayment is recognised.
at balance sheet date based on the forward metal prices for the relevant quotational period.
This ensures that revenue is recorded The following exchange rates to the US dollar US$ have been applied: at the fair value of consideration to be received.
All mark-to-market 31 Average 31 Average adjustments are recorded in sales revenue.
December 12 months December 12 months 2010 2010 2009 2009 Interest income Argentine pesos Interest income is recognised as earned on an accruals basis using US$:ARS 3.9759 3.9119 3.7990 3.7279 the effective interest method in the income statement.
Australian dollars AUD:US$ 1.0233 0.9208 0.8974 0.7934 Exceptional items Canadian dollars Exceptional items represent significant items of income and expense US$:CAD 0.9983 1.0302 1.0533 1.1405 that, due to their nature or the expected infrequency of the events Chilean pesos US$:CLP 468.00 510.19 507.45 558.62 giving rise to them, are presented separately on the face of the income Colombian pesos statement to give a better understanding to shareholders of the US$:COP 1,920 1,898 2,043 2,153 elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate Euros comparison with prior periods and to better assess trends in financial EUR:US$ 1.3387 1.3266 1.4327 1.3949 performance.
Exceptional items include, but are not limited to, Great Britain pounds impairment charges, liability fair value adjustments, profits and GBP:US$ 1.5613 1.5456 1.6173 1.5669 losses on the sale of investments, profits and losses from the sale Peruvian nuevo sol US$:PEN 2.8063 2.8245 2.8870 3.0098 of operations, restructuring and closure costs, inventory writeSouth African rand downs, foreign currency gains and losses on borrowings, loan issue US$:ZAR 6.6276 7.3159 7.3890 8.4057 costs written-off on facility refinancing and the related tax impacts Swiss francs of these items.
US$:CHF 0.9346 1.0424 1.0356 1.0850 Property, plant and equipment Revenue On initial acquisition, land and buildings and plant and equipment Revenue associated with the sale of commodities is recognised when are valued at cost, being the purchase price and the directly attributable all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asset sold are costs of acquisition or construction required to bring the asset to transferred to the customer, usually when insurance risk has passed the location and condition necessary for the asset to be capable to the customer and the commodity has been delivered to the of operating in the manner intended by management.
At this point the Group retains neither continuing In subsequent periods, buildings, plant and equipment are stated managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value, ownership nor effective control over the commodities and the costs whilst land is stated at cost less any impairment in value and is incurred, or to be incurred, in respect of the sale can be reliably not depreciated.
Revenue is recognised, at fair value of the consideration | 144 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 6.
Principal accounting policies FRQWLQXHG Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred on the Depreciation is provided so as to write off the costs, less estimated exploration and evaluation of potential mineral reserves and resources residual values of buildings, plant and equipment based on prices and includes costs such as exploratory drilling and sample testing prevailing at the balance sheet date, on the following bases: and the costs of pre-feasibility studies.
Exploration and evaluation Mine production assets are depreciated using a unit-of-production expenditure for each area of interest, other than that acquired from method based on estimated economically recoverable reserves, which the purchase of another mining company, is carried forward as an results in a depreciation charge proportional to the depletion of asset provided that one of the following conditions is met: reserves.
Buildings, plant and equipment unrelated to production such costs are expected to be recouped in full through are depreciated using the straight-line method based on estimated successful development and exploration of the area of interest useful lives.
or alternatively, by its sale: or Where parts of an asset have different useful lives, depreciation is exploration and evaluation activities in the area of interest have calculated on each separate part.
Each asset or parts estimated not yet reached a stage that permits a reasonable assessment of useful life has due regard to both its own physical life limitations and the existence or otherwise of economically recoverable reserves, the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the and active and significant operations in relation to the area are mine property at which the item is located, and to possible future continuing, or planned for the future.
Estimates of remaining useful lives Purchased exploration and evaluation assets are recognised as assets and residual values are reviewed annually.
Changes in estimates are accounted for prospectively.
at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part of a business combination.
The expected useful lives are as follows: An impairment review is performed, either individually or at the Buildings 15 40 years cash-generating unit level, when there are indicators that the Plant and equipment 4 30 years carrying amount of the assets may exceed their recoverable amounts.
The net carrying amounts of land, buildings and plant and equipment To the extent that this occurs, the excess is fully provided against, are reviewed for impairment either individually or at the cashin the financial year in which this is determined.
Exploration and generating unit level when events and changes in circumstances evaluation assets are reassessed on a regular basis and these costs indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
To are carried forward provided that at least one of the conditions the extent that these values exceed their recoverable amounts, outlined above is met.
that excess is fully provided against in the financial year in which Expenditure is transferred to mine development assets or capital this is determined.
work in progress once the work completed to date supports the future development of the property and such development Expenditure on major maintenance or repairs includes the cost of the replacement of parts of assets and overhaul costs.
Where an receives appropriate approvals.
asset or part of an asset is replaced and it is probable that future Mineral properties and mine development expenditure economic benefits associated with the item will be available to the The cost of acquiring mineral reserves and mineral resources is Group, the expenditure is capitalised and the carrying amount of the capitalised on the balance sheet as incurred.
Capitalised costs item replaced derecognised.
Similarly, overhaul costs associated with development expenditure include costs associated with a start-up major maintenance are capitalised and depreciated over their useful period where the asset is available for use but incapable of lives where it is probable that future economic benefits will be available operating at normal levels without a commissioning period.
and any remaining carrying amounts of the cost of previous overhauls are derecognised.
All other costs are expensed as incurred.
Mineral reserves and capitalised mine development expenditure are, upon commencement of production, depreciated using a Where an item of property, plant and equipment is disposed of, it is unit of production method based on the estimated economically derecognised and the difference between its carrying value and net recoverable reserves to which they relate or are written off if the sales proceeds is disclosed as a profit or loss on disposal in the property is abandoned.
The net carrying amounts of mineral reserves income statement.
and resources and capitalised mine development expenditure at Any items of property, plant or equipment that cease to have future each mine property are reviewed for impairment either individually or at the cash-generating unit level when events and changes in economic benefits are derecognised with any gain or loss included in the income statement in the financial year in which the item circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be is derecognised.
To the extent that these values exceed their recoverable amounts, that excess is fully provided against in the financial year in which this is determined.
com 145 Capital work in progress The costs of removal of the waste material during a mines production Assets in the course of construction are capitalised in the capital phase are deferred where they give rise to future benefits.
The deferral work in progress account.
On completion, the cost of construction of these costs, and subsequent charges to the income statement, are is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant determined with reference to the mines strip ratio.
The mines strip ratio represents the ratio of the estimated total The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase volume of waste, to the estimated total quantity of economically price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working recoverable ore, over the life of the mine.
These costs are deferred where the actual stripping ratios are higher than the average life condition for its intended use.
The costs charged to the income statement Costs associated with a start-up period are capitalised where the are based on application of the mines strip ratio to the quantity asset is available for use but incapable of operating at normal levels of ore mined in the period.
Where the ore is expected to be evenly without a commissioning period.
distributed, waste removal is expensed as incurred.
Capital work in progress is not depreciated.
The net carrying Biological assets amounts of capital work in progress at each mine property are Biological assets, being cattle, are carried at their fair value less reviewed for impairment either individually or at the cash-generating estimated selling costs.
Any changes in fair value less estimated unit level when events and changes in circumstances indicate that selling costs are included in the income statement in the period the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
To the extent that in which they arise.
these values exceed their recoverable amounts, that excess is fully provided against in the financial year in which this is determined.
Intangible assets Purchased intangible assets are recorded at the cost of acquisition Leasing and hire purchase commitments including expenses incidental to the acquisition, less accumulated The determination of whether an arrangement is or contains a lease amortisation and any impairment in value.
is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date, including whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are on the use of a specific asset or assets or whether the arrangement capitalised separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or arises conveys a right to use the asset.
A reassessment after inception is from contractual or legal rights and the fair value can be measured only made in specific circumstances.
Assets held under finance leases, where substantially all the risks and Internally generated goodwill is not recognised.
rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, and Intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives, except hire purchase contracts, are capitalised in the balance sheet at the goodwill and those intangible assets that the Directors regard as lower of the fair value of the leased property or the present value of having indefinite useful lives, that are not amortised but are reviewed the minimum lease payments during the lease term calculated using for impairment at least annually, and whenever events or circumstances the interest rate implicit in the lease agreement.
These amounts are indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Intangible determined at the inception of the lease and are depreciated over assets are regarded as having an indefinite life when, based on an the shorter of their estimated useful lives or lease term.
The capital analysis of all the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to the elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase period over which the asset is expected to generate net cash flows.
contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
The interest Such analyses are performed annually.
Estimated useful lives are elements of the lease or hire purchase obligations are charged to the determined as the period over which the Group expects to use the income statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase asset or the number of production or similar units expected to be contracts and represent a constant proportion of the balance of obtained from the asset by the Group and for which the Group capital repayments outstanding.
retains control of access to those benefits.
Leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership For intangible assets with a finite useful life, the amortisation have not passed to the Group are classified as operating leases.
method and period are reviewed annually and impairment testing Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income is undertaken when circumstances indicate the carrying amount may statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Deferred stripping costs Where an intangible asset is disposed of, it is derecognised and the In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden difference between its carrying value and the net sales proceeds is and other waste in order to access the ore body.
During the prereported as a profit or loss on disposal in the income statement in production phase, these costs are capitalised as part of the cost of the financial year the disposal occurs.
the mine property and depreciated based on the mines strip ratio.
| 146 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 6.
Principal accounting policies FRQWLQXHG An impairment loss is reversed in the income statement if there is a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount Coal export rights since the prior impairment loss was recognised.
The carrying amount Coal export rights are carried at cost and amortised using a is increased to the recoverable amount, but not beyond the carrying unit-of-production method based on the reserves that exist amount, net of depreciation or amortisation that would have arisen in the location that has access to such rights.
if the prior impairment loss had not been recognised.
After such Software and technology patents a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to Software and technology patents are carried at cost and amortised allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, over a period of three years and 20 years respectively.
on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Goodwill impairments are not reversed.
Hydroelectricity rights Hydroelectricity rights acquired will be amortised over the expected Non-current assets held-for-sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets held-for-sale life of the operation following the completion of construction.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held-for-sale Long-term feed contract if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction A long-term feed contract is amortised over the remaining rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met contract term.
only when the sale is highly probable and the assets or disposal Impairment of assets groups are available for immediate sale in their present condition.
The Group must be committed to the sale which should be expected The carrying amounts of non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year of the date of classification.
the carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
If there are indicators of impairment, a review is undertaken to determine whether the Non-current assets or disposal groups held-for-sale are carried at carrying amounts are in excess of their recoverable amounts.
the lower of the carrying amount prior to being classified as heldAn assets recoverable amount is determined as the higher of for-sale, and the fair value less costs to sell.
A non-current asset is its fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Such reviews not depreciated while classified as held-for-sale.
are undertaken on an asset-by-asset basis, except where assets A non-current asset held-for-sale is presented separately in the do not generate cash flows independent of other assets, in which case the review is undertaken at the cash-generating unit level.
The assets and liabilities of a disposal group classified as held-for-sale are presented separately as one line in the assets Where a cash-generating unit, or group of cash-generating units, and liabilities sections on the face of the balance sheet.
has goodwill allocated to it, or includes intangible assets that are either not available for use or that have an indefinite useful life Discontinued operations and which can only be tested as part of a cash-generating unit, A discontinued operation is a component of an entity, whose an impairment test is performed at least annually or whenever operations and cash flows are clearly distinguished both operationally there is an indication that the carrying amounts of such assets and for financial reporting purposes from the rest of the entity, that may be impaired.
has been disposed of or classified as held-for-sale.
To be classified as a discontinued operation one of the following criteria must be met: If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recorded in the income statement to reflect the operation must represent a separate major line of business the asset at the lower amount.
In assessing the value-in-use, the or geographical area of operations: or relevant future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing the operation must be part of a single co-ordinated plan to use of such assets and from their disposal are discounted to their dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical present value using a market-determined pre-tax discount rate that area of operations: or reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and asset-specific risks for which the cash flow estimates have not been the operation must be a subsidiary acquired exclusively with adjusted.
Fair value less costs to sell is determined as the amount a view to resale.
that would be obtained from the sale of the asset in an arms-length Where the operation is discontinued at the balance sheet date, transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties.
For mining the results are presented in one line on the face of the income assets this would generally be determined based on the present statement, and prior period results are represented as discontinued.
value of the estimated future cash flows arising from the continued use and eventual disposal of the asset.
In assessing these cash flows and discounting them to present value, assumptions used are those that an independent market participant would consider appropriate.
com 147 Financial instruments Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity amortisation process.
Trade and other receivables are recognised investments or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
and carried at their original invoiced value, adjusted, where appropriate, The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at for provisional pricing or their recoverable amount if this differs from initial recognition.
Where, as a result of a change in intention or the invoiced amount.
Where the time value of money is material, ability, it is no longer appropriate to classify an investment as heldreceivables are discounted and are carried at their present value.
A to-maturity, the investment is reclassified into the available-for-sale provision is made where the estimated recoverable amount is lower category.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are than the carrying amount.
measured at fair value on the trade date, plus, in the case of Available-for-sale financial assets investments not at fair value through profit or loss, directly Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial attributable transaction costs.
All financial liabilities are initially assets that are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified in recognised at their fair value.
Subsequently, all financial liabilities any of the other three stated categories.
After initial recognition, with the exception of derivatives are carried at amortised cost.
available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with The Group considers whether a contract contains an embedded gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity derivative when the Group becomes a party to the contract.
until the investment is derecognised or until the investment is Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract if it is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
not measured at fair value through profit and loss and when the economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to the Listed share investments are carried at fair value based on stock host contract.
exchange quoted prices at the balance sheet date.
Unlisted shares Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried at fair value where it can be reliably obtained, otherwise Financial assets classified as held-for-trading are included in the they are stated at cost less any impairment.
category financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial Fair values assets are classified as held-for-trading if they are acquired for the The fair value of quoted financial assets is determined by reference purpose of selling in the near term.
Derivatives are also classified to bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
as held-for-trading unless they are designated as and are effective Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using hedging instruments.
Gains or losses on these items are recognised valuation techniques.
These include recent arms-length market in income.
transactions: reference to current market value of another instrument which is substantially the same: discounted cash Held-to-maturity investments Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments flow analysis: and pricing models.
and fixed maturity are classified as held-to-maturity when the Group Derivative financial instruments are valued using applicable valuation has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Investments techniques such as those outlined above.
intended to be held for an undefined period are not included in this classification.
Other long-term investments that are intended to be fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets held-to-maturity, such as bonds, are measured at amortised cost.
This cost is computed as the amount initially recognised minus A financial asset is fide-recognised when: principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: using the effective interest method of any difference between the initially recognised amount and the maturity amount.
This calculation the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, includes all fees paid or received between parties to the contract but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums and discounts.
For investments carried arrangement: or at amortised cost, gains and losses are recognised in income when the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the investments are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the asset and either has transferred substantially all the risks and the amortisation process.
rewards of the asset, or has neither transferred nor retained Loans and receivables substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed transferred control of the asset.
or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, Where the Group has transferred its right to receive cash flows from do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
Such risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, it assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
continues to recognise the financial asset to the extent of its continuing involvement in the asset.
| 148 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 6.
Principal accounting policies FRQWLQXHG from equity to the income statement.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in Financial liabilities profit.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are A financial liability is fide-recognised when the obligation under reversed through profit or loss, if the increase in fair value of the the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
instrument can objectively be related to an event occurring after Gains and losses on fide-recognition are recognised within finance the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss.
income and finance costs respectively.
Rehabilitation trust fund Investments in the rehabilitation trust fund are measured at fair Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an value based on the market price of investments held by the trust.
In existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or accordance with IFRIC 5, movements in the fair value are recognised modification is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability in the income statement.
Such amounts relate to trusts in South Africa which receive cash contributions to accumulate funds for the and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Groups rehabilitation liabilities relating to the eventual closure of the Groups coal operations.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial Derivative financial instruments and hedging asset is impaired.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, forward currency and commodity contracts to hedge its risks Financial assets carried at amortised cost associated with interest rate, foreign currency and commodity price If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised receivables and held-to-maturity investments carried at amortised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are difference between the assets carrying amount and the present carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses the fair value is negative.
that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to profit computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income or loss for the year.
Objective evidence of impairment of loans and The fair value of forward currency and commodity contracts is receivables exists if the counter-party is experiencing significant calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates and prices financial difficulty, there is a breach of contract, concessions are for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest granted to the counter-party that would not normally be granted, rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for or it is probable that the counter-party will enter into bankruptcy similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event fair value hedges: occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously cash flow hedges: or recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally its amortised cost at the reversal date.
designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management Assets carried at cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an unquoted objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation equity instrument that is not carried at fair value because its fair includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item value cannot be reliably measured, the amount of the loss is or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount entity will assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Hedges that are expected to at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or Available-for-sale financial assets cash flows are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine if they If an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, an amount actually have been highly effective throughout the financial comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal reporting periods for which they were designated.
payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in profit or loss, is transferred Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 149 Hedges which meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are Own shares accounted for as follows: The cost of purchases of own shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP trust are deducted from equity.
Where they Fair value hedges are issued to employees or sold, no gain or loss is recognised in the Fair value hedges are hedges of the Groups exposure to changes in income statement.
Any proceeds received on disposal of the shares the fair value of a recognised asset or liability that could affect profit or transfer to employees are recognised in equity.
The carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk being hedged, the derivative Own shares purchased under the Equity Capital Management Program ECMP are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is is remeasured at fair value, and gains and losses from both are taken to profit or loss.
recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of such shares.
Such gains and losses are recognised For fair value hedges relating to items carried at amortised cost, the directly in equity.
adjustment to carrying value is amortised through profit or loss over the remaining term to maturity.
Any adjustment to the carrying Interest-bearing loans and borrowings amount of a hedged financial instrument for which the effective Loans are recognised at inception at the fair value of proceeds interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss.
received, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest Amortisation begins when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted method.
Finance costs are recognised in the income statement for changes in its fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
using the effective interest method.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging Convertible borrowings instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge On issue of a convertible borrowing, the fair value of the liability no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, or the Group component is determined by discounting the contractual future revokes the designation.
cash flows using a market rate for a non-convertible instrument with Cash flow hedges similar terms.
This value is carried as a liability on the amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The remainder Cash flow hedges are a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a of the proceeds is allocated to a separate component of equity, net of issue costs, which remains constant in subsequent periods.
Issue recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction that could affect profit or loss.
The effective portion of the gain or costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, based on their respective carrying amounts when the instrument while the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement On conversion, the liability is reclassified to equity and no gain when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss.
Where the or loss is recognised in the profit or loss.
Where the convertible hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the borrowing is redeemed early or repurchased in a way that does amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying not alter the original conversion privileges, the consideration paid amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
is allocated to the liability and equity components.
The consideration relating to the equity component is recognised in equity and the If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts amount of gain or loss relating to the liability element in profit previously recognised in equity are transferred to profit or loss.
the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or roll-over, or if its designation as a hedge is The finance costs recognised in respect of the convertible borrowings revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity includes the accretion of the liability component to the amount that until the forecast transaction occurs.
If the related transaction is will be payable on redemption.
not expected to occur, the amount is taken to profit or loss.
Inventories Hedges of a net investment Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, including a Cost is determined on a weighted average basis or using a first-inhedge of a monetary item that is accounted for as part of the net first-out basis and includes all costs incurred in the normal course investment, are accounted for in a way similar to cash flow hedges.
of business including direct material and direct labour costs and an Gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective allocation of production overheads, depreciation and amortisation portion of the hedge are recognised directly in equity while any and other costs, based on normal production capacity, incurred in gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative inventories includes the transfers from equity of gains and losses on value of any such gains or losses recognised directly in equity is transferred to profit or loss.
| 150 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 6.
Principal accounting policies FRQWLQXHG Employee entitlements Provisions are recognised for short-term employee entitlements, qualifying cash flow hedges in respect of the purchase of materials.
on an undiscounted basis, for services rendered by employees Inventories are categorised, as follows: that remain unpaid at the balance sheet date.
Raw materials and consumables: materials, goods or supplies Provisions for long-term employee entitlements are measured using including energy sources to be either directly or indirectly the projected unit credit method and discounted at an interest rate consumed in the production process: equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the liabilities.
Work in progress: items stored in an intermediate state that have not yet passed through all the stages of production: and In some of the Groups Australian operations, long service leave Finished goods: products and materials that have passed all an employee entitlement for which a provision is recorded is stages of the production process.
administered by an independent fund.
The fund collects levies from employers throughout the industry based on the expected Net realisable value represents estimated selling price in the ordinary cost of future liabilities.
When the Group makes long service leave course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to payments to employees covered by the fund, it is reimbursed for the completion and disposal.
To reflect the expected reimbursement for Cash and cash equivalents future long service leave payments from the fund, a receivable is Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash in hand and recorded based on the present value of the future amounts short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or expected to be reimbursed.
For the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include Other provisions certain bank overdrafts where the facility forms part of the working Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation capital cash management activities.
legal or constructive, as a result of past events, and it is probable Government grants that an outflow of resources that can be reliably estimated will be required to settle the obligation.
Where the effect is material, the Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all the attaching provision is discounted to net present value using an appropriate current market-based pre-tax discount rate and the unwinding conditions will be complied with.
Government grants in respect of capital expenditure are credited to the carrying amount of the of the discount is included in finance costs.
related asset and are released to the income statement over the Taxation expected useful lives of the relevant assets.
Grants that are not Current tax associated with an asset are credited to income so as to match Current tax for each taxable entity in the Group is based on the local them with the expense to which they relate.
taxable income at the local statutory tax rate enacted or substantively Environmental protection, rehabilitation and closure costs enacted at the balance sheet date and includes adjustments to tax Provision is made for close down, restoration and environmental payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition Deferred tax of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method in respect disturbed areas in the financial period when the related environmental of all temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and disturbance occurs, based on the estimated future costs using liabilities, and their carrying amounts for financial reporting information available at the balance sheet date.
The provision is purposes, except as indicated below: discounted using a current market-based pre-tax discount rate and the unwinding of the discount is included in interest expense.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is temporary differences, except: capitalised, where it gives rise to a future benefit, and depreciated where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial over future production from the operations to which it relates.
recognition of goodwill, or the initial recognition of an asset or The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes to obligations, liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, legislation or discount rates that impact estimated costs or lives of at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting operations.
The cost of the related asset is adjusted for changes in the profit nor taxable profit or loss: and provision resulting from changes in the estimated cash flows or discount in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with rate and the adjusted cost of the asset is depreciated prospectively.
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint Rehabilitation trust funds holding monies committed for use in ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary satisfying environmental obligations are included within Other differences can be controlled and it is probable that the financial assets on the balance sheet.
temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
com 151 Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible for part or all of the benefits that have already accrued or a temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of a material unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future will be available against which the deductible temporary differences entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are and the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant can be utilised, except: gain or loss is recognised in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible The service cost of providing pension benefits to employees temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business for the year is determined using the projected unit method and is combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects recognised in the income statement.
The difference between the neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and expected return on plan assets and the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities is recognised in the income statement.
in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint Actuarial gains or losses are recognised directly in equity through ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent the statement of recognised income and expenses.
The full pension that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse surplus or deficit is recorded in the balance sheet, with the exception in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available of the impact of any recognition of past service costs.
Surpluses against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
recorded are restricted to the sum of any unrecognised past service costs and present value of any amounts the Group expects to recover The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions.
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to The Group also provides post-retirement healthcare benefits to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
certain employees in Canada, the Dominican Republic, South Africa To the extent that an asset not previously recognised fulfils the and the United States.
These are accounted for in a similar manner to the defined benefit pension plans.
criteria for recognition, a deferred income tax asset is recorded.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax Ordinary share capital rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the net is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws proceeds received, which is the fair value of the consideration enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
received less costs that are incurred in connection with the share issue.
The nominal par value of the shares issued is taken to the Current and deferred tax relating to items recognised directly in share capital account and any excess is recorded in the share equity are recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
premium account, including the costs that were incurred with Mining taxes and royalties are treated and disclosed as current and the share issue.
deferred taxes if they have the characteristics of an income tax.
Share-based compensation plans Pensions and other post-retirement obligations The Group makes share-based awards, including free shares and options, to certain employees.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution pension plans are charged to the income statement in the year to which they relate.
Equity-settled awards The Group contributes to separately administered defined benefit For equity-settled awards, the fair value is charged to the income pension plans.
statement and credited to retained earnings, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, after adjusting for the estimated number For defined benefit funds, plan assets are measured at fair value, of awards that are expected to vest taking into account the while plan liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the achievement of non-market-based performance conditions.
The fair projected unit credit method and discounted at an interest rate value of the equity-settled awards is determined at the date of the equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate grant.
In calculating fair value, no account is taken of any vesting bond of equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
The conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at of the Company market conditions.
The fair value is determined the beginning of the year of long-term market returns on scheme by external experts using option pricing models.
At each balance assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets sheet date prior to vesting, the cumulative expense representing the of contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
In extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements measuring its defined benefit liability, past service costs are best estimate of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the period computed after adjusting for non-market performance conditions.
until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the benefits The movement in cumulative expense is recognised in the income vest immediately following the introduction of, or changes to, statement with a corresponding entry within equity.
a defined benefit plan, the past service costs are recognised immediately.
When a settlement eliminating all obligations | 152 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 6.
Principal accounting policies FRQWLQXHG No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised for any modification, that increases the total fair value of the share-based payment arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification, over the remainder of the new vesting period.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the new award is treated as if it is a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
Cash-settled awards For cash-settled awards, the fair value is recalculated at each balance date until the awards are settled based on the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest, adjusting for market and nonmarket based performance conditions.
During the vesting period, a liability is recognised representing the portion of the vesting period that has expired at the balance sheet date multiplied by the fair value of the awards at that date.
After vesting, the full fair value of the unsettled awards at each balance date is recognised as a liability.
Movements in the liability are recognised in the income statement.
The fair value is recalculated using an option pricing model refer to note 35.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised and amortised over the useful life of the asset.
Borrowing costs related to the establishment of a loan facility are capitalised and amortised over the life of the facility.
Other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the financial period incurred.
Comparatives Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to disclose them on the same basis as the current year.
Acquisitions Business combinations 6SKHUH 0LQHUDOV LPLWHG On 24 August 2010, the Group made an AUD2.50 per share cash offer for all of the shares in Sphere Minerals Limited Sphere.
On 3 November 2010, the Group increased its offer price to AUD3.00 cash for each Sphere share.
The Group declared the offer free from all conditions on 11 November 2010, following the receipt of acceptances in respect of more than 50% of Spheres share capital.
As at 31 December 2010 the Group held 75.45% of Sphere.
The Group has extended the offer period to 25 March 2011, unless further extended.
Under IFRS 3 the acquisition has been accounted for as one transaction occurring on 16 November 2010, being the date that the Group obtained control of the Board of Sphere.
The total cost of the acquisition was US$391 million.
Sphere is a West Africa focused iron ore company, with interests in three iron ore projects in Mauritania.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired were as follows: IFRS carrying Fair value Fair value at US$m value adjustments acquisition Property, plant and equipment 86 408 494 Trade and other receivables 2 2 88 408 496 Trade and other payables 4 4 Deferred tax liabilities 122 122 Net assets 84 286 370 Non-controlling interests 27 70 97 Net attributable assets 57 216 273 Goodwill arising on acquisition 92 92 57 308 365 Consideration: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 26 Cash paid 391 365 The goodwill balance is the result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired and their tax bases.
There was only one acquisition in 2010 therefore this represents the aggregated assets and liabilities for all business combinations.
Prior year business combinations There were no business combinations in 2009.
| 154 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 8.
Discontinued operations and disposals 0DORPD PLQH In June 2010, the Maloma mine in Swaziland was sold for a cash consideration of US$3 million, resulting in the Group realising a gain of US$3 million.
Prior year discontinued operations and disposals Profit on loss of control of joint venture In October 2009, the Group entered into an irrevocable sale agreement to dispose of the Groups 70% interest in El Morro SCM, the holder of the El Morro copper-gold project in Chile, and associated rights and assets, to Barrick Gold Corporation or New Gold Incorporated upon the exercise of their right of first refusal for a total cash consideration of US$463 million refer to note 10.
As the Group recovered the carrying value of this asset through a sale transaction, the asset was classified as held-for-sale at 31 December 2009.
The sale proceeds were received from New Gold Incorporated on 17 February 2010.
The net balance of other held-for-sale assets and liabilities at 31 December 2010 was US$27 million 31 December 2009 US$26 million relating to a coal mine in South Africa.
Consolidated information The information below is provided in aggregate for the 2010 and 2009 disposals: US$m 2010 2009 Property, plant and equipment 7 Inventories 1 Trade and other receivables 1 9 Trade and other payables 9 Net assets Consideration: Cash received 3 Total consideration 3 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 3 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
Segmental analysis Operating segments Xstratas business is organised into five global commodity businesses, each of which operates with a high degree of autonomy.
In addition to the five global segments, the Xstrata Technology Services and Xstrata Iron Ore businesses, which are not significant parts of the business, are also included below for disclosure purposes.
Management monitors the operating results of each business as a standalone entity.
Segment performance is evaluated based on a number of measures including return on capital employed and operating profit before interest and tax.
Finance income and costs, and income tax, are managed on a Group basis.
Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arms-length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
The following tables present revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups operating segments for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009.
Such unallocated assets include corporate cash and cash equivalents of US$595 million 2009 US$189 million, deferred tax assets of US$299 million 2009 US$213 million, derivative financial assets that have mainly been used to provide an economic hedge of capital market notes of US$680 million 2009 US$709 million and other assets of US$99 million 2009 US$292 million.
Includes corporate liabilities not directly attributable to operating segments.
Such unallocated liabilities include interest-bearing loans and borrowings of US$8,742 million 2009 US$13,182 million, share based compensation plan provisions of US$252 million 2009 US$224 million, other provisions of US$127 million 2009 US$75 million, deferred and current tax liabilities of US$863 million 2009 US$537 million, derivative financial liabilities that have mainly been used to provide an economic hedge of capital market notes of US$699 million 2009 US$501 million and other liabilities of US$99 million 2009 US$200 million.
com 159 US$m 2010 2009 Capital expenditure Sustaining: Coal 568 424 Alloys 126 114 Copper 572 498 Nickel 237 93 Zinc Lead 316 133 Technology 2 2 Total sustaining 1,821 1,264 Unallocated 2 1 Total 1,823 1,265 Expansionary: Coal 1,430 687 Alloys 141 49 Copper 1,162 436 Iron Ore 67 23 Nickel 1,319 1,049 Zinc Lead 177 114 Technology 1 Total expansionary 4,296 2,359 Total capital expenditure: Coal 1,998 1,111 Alloys 267 163 Copper 1,734 934 Iron Ore 67 23 Nickel 1,556 1,142 Zinc Lead 493 247 Technology 2 3 Total 6,117 3,623 Unallocated 2 1 Total 6,119 3,624 The average number of employees, which includes executive directors and excludes contractors, during the year are as follows: Coal 10,473 10,009 Alloys 8,337 8,199 Copper 11,483 11,319 Iron Ore 4 Nickel 3,340 3,098 Zinc Lead 4,645 4,939 Technology 167 177 Total 38,449 37,741 Unallocated 112 104 Total 38,561 37,845 | 160 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 9.
Segmental analysis FRQWLQXHG The average number of contractors during the year is as follows: 2010 2009 Coal 9,330 6,940 Alloys 7,561 5,694 Copper 9,079 8,231 Iron Ore 1 Nickel 5,110 2,501 Zinc Lead 1,038 785 Technology 63 24 Total 32,182 24,175 Unallocated 4 6 Total 32,186 24,181 Geographical areas The following tables present revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups geographical areas for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009.
Revenue from one customer was greater than 10% of total revenues and arising from sales within a number of different operating and geographical segments refer to note 36.
Such unallocated assets include goodwill of US$2,731 million 2009 US$2,731 million, corporate cash and cash equivalents of US$595 million 2009 US$189 million, deferred tax assets of US$299 million 2009 US$213 million, derivative financial assets that have mainly been used to provide an economic hedge of capital market notes of US$680 million 2009 US$709 million and other assets of US$99 million 2009 US$292 million.
Includes corporate liabilities not directly attributable to geographical areas.
Such unallocated liabilities include interest-bearing loans and borrowings of US$8,742 million 2009 US$13,182 million, share-based compensation plan provisions of US$252 million 2009 US$224 million, other provisions of US$127 million 2009 US$75 million, deferred and current tax liabilities of US$863 million 2009 US$537 million, derivative financial liabilities that have mainly been used to provide an economic hedge of capital market notes of US$699 million 2009 US$501 million and other liabilities of US$99 million 2009 US$200 million.
com 163 US$m 2010 2009 Capital expenditure Sustaining: Africa 187 210 Americas North 314 169 Americas South 390 400 Australasia 863 443 Europe 67 42 Total sustaining 1,821 1,264 Unallocated 2 1 Total 1,823 1,265 Expansionary: Africa 530 364 Americas North 117 341 Americas South 786 265 Australasia 2,813 1,366 Europe 50 23 Total 4,296 2,359 Total capital expenditure: Africa 717 574 Americas North 431 510 Americas South 1,176 665 Australasia 3,676 1,809 Europe 117 65 Total 6,117 3,623 Unallocated 2 1 Total 6,119 3,624 The average number of employees, which includes Executive Directors and excludes contractors, during the year is as follows: Africa 13,028 12,851 Americas North 5,700 6,459 Americas South 8,277 7,641 Australasia 9,414 8,787 Europe 2,013 1,988 Middle East 17 15 Total 38,449 37,741 Unallocated 112 104 Total 38,561 37,845 The average number of contractors during the year is as follows: Africa 12,709 9,003 Americas North 1,572 1,502 Americas South 8,024 6,999 Australasia 9,572 6,441 Europe 303 229 Middle East 2 1 Total 32,182 24,175 Unallocated 4 6 Total 32,186 24,181 | 164 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 10.
Revenue and expenses Revenue and expenses US$m 2010 2009 Revenue sales of goods 30,499 22,732 Less cost of sales 20,405 18,039 Gross profit 10,094 4,693 Operating costs: Cost of sales 17,135 13,098 Distribution costs 2,265 1,852 Administrative expenses 661 832 Other income and expenses 52 162 Operating costs 20,113 15,944 Depreciation and amortisation cost of sales 2,711 2,388 Depreciation and amortisation administrative expenses 21 31 Depreciation and amortisation 2,732 2,419 Operating costs before exceptional items 22,845 18,363 Exceptional income costs : Acquisition costs 7 Liability fair value adjustments 19 350 Profit on loss of control of joint venture 194 Restructuring and closure costs 5 156 Exceptional income before impairment of assets 7 388 Impairment of assets cost of sales 559 2,553 Exceptional costs 552 2,165 Total operating costs 23,397 20,528 After depreciation and amortisation and impairment of assets.
Before depreciation and amortisation and impairment of assets.
Depreciation and amortisation Depreciation of owned assets 2,619 2,324 Depreciation of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 20 10 Total depreciation 2,639 2,334 Amortisation of intangible assets 93 85 Total depreciation and amortisation 2,732 2,419 Inventory recognised as an expense 19,846 15,486 Operating lease rental expense minimum lease payments 62 53 Royalties paid 816 524 Research and development 3 2 Employee costs including directors emoluments refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 127 to 129 for details Wages and salaries 2,759 2,248 Pension and other post-retirement benefit costs refer to note 35 215 178 Social security and other benefits 113 128 Share-based compensation plans refer to note 35 178 334 Total employee costs 3,265 2,888 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 165 Auditors remuneration US$m 2010 2009 a Auditors remuneration : Group auditors UK 1 1 Group auditors overseas 13 11 14 12 Amounts paid to auditors for other work: b Corporate finance transactions 1 3 c Taxation 4 3 d Other 1 1 6 7 Other audit firms Internal audit 2 1 e Other 5 6 7 7 a The Group audit fee includes US$47,000 2009 US$45,000 in respect of the Parent Company.
b 2010 amounts relate to a number of ongoing projects and transactional support.
2009 amounts relate to the ongoing integration of previous acquisitions and other transactional support.
c Includes corporate tax compliance and advisory services.
d Primarily relates to accounting advice and non-statutory assurance services.
e Includes tax advisory services, accounting assistance and acquisition due diligence.
The Corporate Governance report set out on pages 110 to 118 details the Groups policy with regard to the independence and objectivity of the external and internal auditors and the provision and approval of non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
Finance income US$m 2010 2009 Bank and interest received from third parties 76 46 Call option premium 42 208 Dividends 4 1 Earnings from other financial assets 29 146 Other 1 6 Finance income before exceptional items 152 407 Gain on forward exchange contracts in respect of the rights issue refer to notes 12 and 26 47 Exceptional finance income 47 Total finance income 152 454 Finance costs Amortisation of loan issue costs 12 5 Convertible borrowings amortised cost charge 4 4 Discount unwinding 117 100 Finance charges payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 24 6 Foreign currency losses on other loans 186 182 Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 29 89 Interest on convertible borrowings and capital market notes 205 295 Interest on non-controlling interest loans 6 6 Interest on other financial liabilities 9 12 Hedge ineffectiveness 6 17 Other 22 38 Finance cost before exceptional items 620 754 Loan issue costs written-off on facility refinancing 35 41 Exceptional finance cost 35 41 Total finance cost 655 795 These amounts mainly relate to foreign currency losses on US and Canadian dollar inter-company loans in Australian entities.
Total interest income and expense calculated using the effective interest method for financial assets and liabilities not at fair value through the profit and loss are US$76 million 2009 US$52 million and US$271 million 2009 US$440 million respectively.
| 166 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 10.
Revenue and expenses FRQWLQXHG Exceptional items US$m 2010 2009 Acquisition costs 7 Liability fair value adjustments 19 350 Profit on loss of control of joint venture 194 Restructuring and closure costs 5 156 Exceptional items before impairment of assets 7 388 Impairment of assets 559 2,553 552 2,165 Impairment of assets 2010 The Group completed impairment testing for all of its cash-generating units at 31 October 2010 and, for any assets where indicators of impairment were identified in November or December, performed updated testing at 31 December 2010.
As a result of this testing, an impairment was identified.
Nickel assets in Brazil were impaired by US$559 million US$437 million after tax, including goodwill of US$201 million refer to note 15, following a review of the Araguaia nickel project in Brazil.
2009 The Group completed impairment testing for all of its cash-generating units at 31 October 2009 and, for any assets where indicators of impairment were identified in November or December, performed updated testing at 31 December 2009.
As a result of this testing, impairments were identified at certain locations.
Nickel assets in Australia, Canada and Norway were impaired by US$2,110 million US$1,884 million after tax, including goodwill of US$710 million refer to note 15, following the restructuring of its business refer below.
Copper and zinc assets in Canada were impaired by US$273 million US$194 million after tax, following the announcement on 8 December 2009, that the Kidd Metallurgical site would permanently cease the operation of its copper and zinc metallurgical plants on 1 May 2010, as part of a plan to restructure its Canadian metallurgical operations refer below.
The Altonorte copper operations in Chile recognised impairment charges against its carrying value of property, plant and equipment assets of US$170 million US$141 million after tax due to the ongoing challenging market conditions for custom smelting operations.
Acquisition costs During 2010, the Group incurred acquisition costs of US$7 million in relation to offers made to acquire companies.
Liability fair value adjustments The Group is required to recognise a liability at fair value representing African Rainbow Minerals Limited ARM Coals interest in Xstratas South African coal operations.
During the year, a gain of US$19 million has been recognised mainly due to revisions to the timing of forecast dividend payments.
In 2009, a gain of US$350 million has been recognised mainly due to the impact of decreasing coal prices and foreign exchange movements.
Profit on loss of control of joint venture In October 2009, the Group entered into an irrevocable sale agreement to dispose of the Groups 70% interest in El Morro SCM, the holder of the El Morro copper-gold project in Chile, and associated rights and assets, to Barrick Gold Corporation for a total cash consideration of US$463 million.
The agreement granted New Gold Incorporated a right of first refusal on the same terms as those granted to Barrick Gold Corporation.
The terms of the agreement were such that Xstrata was obliged to sell the assets to Barrick Gold Corporation or should it exercise its option New Gold Incorporated, without any change to the terms or cash consideration.
Xstrata lost joint control of El Morro upon entering into the sale agreement as a result of the contractual terms in the agreement which precluded Xstrata from making any decisions regarding El Morros financial and operating policies.
In January 2010, New Gold Incorporated notified the Group of its intention to exercise its right of first refusal to acquire Xstrata Coppers interest in the El Morro copper-gold project and the sales proceeds were received on 17 February 2010.
The Group recognised a gain of US$194 million US$144 million after tax as a result of entering into the sale agreement and the resulting loss of joint control of the asset refer to note 8.
com 167 Restructuring and closure costs During 2010, additional restructuring and closure costs of US$5 million were recognised in relation to the closure of the Kidd metallurgical plants on 1 May 2010.
During 2009, restructuring and closure costs of US$156 million US$116 million after tax were recognised.
Xstrata Nickel recognised restructuring and closure costs of US$40 million which included the closure of high-cost, end-of-life mines in Sudbury, the suspension of the Montcalm operations, significant reductions in operational and corporate overheads and the deferral of the Fraser Morgan and Sinclair Underground growth projects.
Restructuring and closure costs of US$105 million were recognised in relation to the closure of the Kidd metallurgical plants, commencing on 1 May 2010, mainly due to global smelting overcapacity, record low treatment and refining charges, increasing operating and capital costs to run and maintain the facilities, and lower demand and sales prices for sulphuric acid.
Restructuring and closure costs of US$11 million were also incurred during 2009 in Xstrata Alloys.
Share of results from associates An amount of US$6 million 2009 US$36 million was recognised in relation to the Groups share of the restructuring and closure costs, impairments, and the loss on forward exchange contracts in respect of a rights issue recognised by Lonmin.
During 2009, an impairment charge of US$241 million was recorded in respect of the Groups investment in Lonmin following changes in foreign exchange rates, operating costs, production and commodity price outlook that have occurred since the acquisition date.
Income tax credit The Group realised an exceptional tax credit of US$129 million primarily as a result of the impairment of assets, acquisition costs and restructuring and closure costs.
The 2009 credit of US$324 million was realised primarily as a result of impairment of assets, restructuring and closure costs and inventory write-downs offset by the tax charge recognised on the loss of control of El Morro.
Income taxes Income tax charge Significant components of the income tax charge for the years ended: US$m 2010 2009 Consolidated income statement Current tax: Based on taxable income for the current year 1,590 1,093 Prior year adjustment 47 72 Total current taxation charge for the year 1,543 1,021 Deferred taxation: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 205 549 Change in tax rates 3 9 Deferred tax credit charge arising from the write-down, or reversal of a previous write-down, of a deferred tax asset 96 149 Prior year adjustment 2 57 Total deferred taxation charge credit for the year 110 352 Total taxation charge 1,653 669 UK taxation included above: Current tax 1 Deferred tax 37 Total taxation credit charge 37 1 Recognised directly in equity Deferred tax: Available-for-sale financial assets 13 9 Cash flow hedges 4 50 Other equity classified items 28 33 Total taxation credit charge reported in equity 19 92 The amounts above include the tax charge attributable to exceptional items.
| 168 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 11.
Income taxes FRQWLQXHG A reconciliation of income tax charge applicable to accounting profit before income tax at the weighted average statutory income tax rate to income tax charge at the Group effective income tax rate for the years ended are as follows: 2010 2009 Profit before taxation 6,608 1,530 Expected tax charge at the weighted average statutory income tax rate 25.2% 2009: 22.3% 1,667 341 Goodwill impairment 68 174 Mining and other taxes 100 4 Foreign currency gains and losses 21 21 Investment allowances 47 7 Non-deductible expenses 38 Rebatable dividends received 4 1 Research and development allowances 10 20 Change in tax rates 3 9 Deferred tax credit charge arising from the write-down, or reversal of a previous write-down, of a deferred tax asset 96 149 Prior year adjustment 49 15 Other 2 Tax charge at an effective income tax rate 1,653 669 The above reconciling items are disclosed at the tax rates that apply in the country where they have arisen.
The weighted average statutory income tax rate is the average of the standard income tax rates applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, weighted by the profit loss before tax of the subsidiaries in the respective countries as included in the consolidated accounts.
The change in the average statutory income tax rate is mainly due to the variation in the weight of subsidiaries profits.
Recognition of deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets for the carry-forward of unused tax losses and unused tax credits are only recognised above the level of deferred tax liabilities to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the unused tax losses credits can be utilised.
Unrecognised tax losses unrecognised deductible temporary differences The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in relation to tax losses that are available indefinitely of US$137 million 2009 US$190 million to carry forward against future taxable income of the companies in which the losses arose.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as they may not be used to offset taxable profits elsewhere in the Group and they have arisen in subsidiaries that have been loss-making for some time.
There are no other deductible temporary differences that have not been recognised at balance sheet date.
Temporary differences associated with Group investments At 31 December 2010, the Group had undistributed earnings of certain Group subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures totalling US$12,867 million 2009 US$9,495 million for which no deferred tax liabilities have been recognised for any taxes that would be payable on the remittance of these earnings as: the Group has determined that undistributed earnings of its subsidiaries will not be distributed in the foreseeable future: the earnings of the associates will not be distributed until they obtain the consent of the Group: and the investments are not held-for-resale and are expected to be recouped by continued use of these operations by the subsidiaries.
There are no income tax consequences for the Group attaching to the payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders.
com 169 The deferred tax assets liabilities included on the face of the balance sheet are as follows: US$m 2010 2009 Deferred tax assets 299 213 Deferred tax liabilities 6,368 5,775 6,069 5,562 The reconciliation of net deferred tax liabilities are as follows: Accelerated Trade and Employee depreciation other Equityand other Rehabilitation and payables related US$m Tax losses provisions and closure amortisation receivables items Other Total At 1 January 2009 273 275 152 6,154 206 24 17 5,241 Tax charge credit recognised in the income statement 49 18 210 285 241 31 352 Tax charge credit recognised in equity 40 132 92 Translation adjustments 35 12 167 684 78 5 4 581 At 31 December 2009 357 321 529 6,553 113 113 10 5,562 Tax charge credit recognised in the income statement 178 9 201 215 42 21 110 Tax charge credit recognised in equity 76 57 19 Acquisition and disposals 122 122 Translation adjustments 25 33 12 343 5 5 3 294 At 31 December 2010 204 421 316 6,803 76 165 34 6,069 Deferred tax assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at year-end exchange rates.
Tax audits The Group periodically assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years open to audit based upon the latest information available.
For those matters where it is probable that an adjustment will be made, the Group recorded its best estimate of these tax liabilities, including related interest charges.
Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to changes in tax laws.
Whilst management believes they have adequately provided for the probable outcome of these matters, future results may include favourable or unfavourable adjustments to these estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made, or resolved, or when the status of limitation lapses.
The final outcome of tax examinations may result in a materially different outcome than assumed in the tax liabilities.
| 170 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 12.
Earnings per share US$m 2010 2009 Profit before exceptional items attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 5,152 2,773 Exceptional items 464 2,112 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 4,688 661 Interest in respect of convertible borrowings 14 19 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent for diluted earnings per share 4,702 680 Weighted average number of shares 000s excluding own shares: For basic earnings per share 2,910,942 2,646,871 Effect of dilution: Share-based payments 35,613 26,525 Convertible borrowings 17,941 25,680 For diluted earnings per share 2,964,496 2,699,076 Basic earnings per share US$ basic before exceptional items 1.77 1.05 exceptional items 0.16 0.80 1.61 0.25 Diluted earnings per share US$ before exceptional items 1.74 1.03 exceptional items 0.16 0.78 1.58 0.25 On 18 March 2009, 1,955,341,080 ordinary shares were issued under a rights issue which was structured as an issue of two new ordinary shares at a price of GBP2.10 per share for every one existing ordinary share held.
The theoretical ex-rights price for an ordinary share was GBP3.41.
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the Parent Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the year, excluding own shares.
Adjustments are made before exceptional items and after exceptional items as outlined above, to present a meaningful basis for analysis.
Diluted earnings per share is based on basic earnings per share adjusted for the potential dilution if director and employee free shares and share options are exercised and the convertible borrowings are converted into ordinary shares.
An adjustment is also made to net profit for the interest in respect of the convertible borrowings.
Dividends paid and proposed US$m 2010 2009 Declared and paid during the year: Final dividend for 2009 8 cents per ordinary share 2008 nil cents per ordinary share 233 Interim dividend for 2010 5 cents per ordinary share 2009 nil cents per ordinary share 146 379 Proposed for approval at the Annual General Meeting not recognised as a liability as at 31 December : Final dividend for 2010 20 cents per ordinary share 2009 8 cents per ordinary share 586 233 Dividends declared in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010 will be paid on 13 May 2011.
The 2010 interim dividend was paid on 8 October 2010.
As stated in note 26, own shares held in the ESOP and by the ECMP have waived the right to receive dividends.
The Group has a 20.91% interest in the service organisation, Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Limited, acquired in a business combination, through which the shareholders gain access to export markets enabling them to realise higher coal sales prices than in the domestic market.
The export rights are amortised based on a units-of-production method.
The Group acquired the right to market to third parties various leading technologies for the mining, mineral processing and metals extraction industries, in a business combination.
The technology patents are amortised over their useful economic lives of 20 years to June 2023.
The Group acquired hydroelectricity rights which will be amortised over the expected life of the operation, currently estimated as being 40 years, following commissioning.
A long-term feed contract is being amortised over an eight-year period.
Other intangible assets mainly comprise computer software and software development that are being amortised over their useful economic lives of between three to five years.
| 172 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 15.
Impairment testing Goodwill Goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units CGUs or groups of CGUs no larger than the reportable segments that are expected to benefit from the related acquisitions.
A CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
This is usually considered a single operation or in some cases a number of operations that are in close geographical proximity or share operational efficiencies.
The carrying values of goodwill by CGU are as follows: US$m 2010 2009 Alloys Africa 49 44 Copper Americas 1,185 1,185 Zinc Lead 1,546 1,546 Zinc Lead Europe 203 217 2,983 2,992 The following goodwill balances result from the requirement on an acquisition to recognise a deferred tax liability, calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities and their tax bases.
For the purposes of testing this goodwill for impairment, any of the related deferred tax liabilities recognised on acquisition that remain at balance date are treated as part of the relevant CGU or group of CGUs.
US$m 2010 2009 Coal Australia 358 314 Coal Americas South 464 464 Copper Americas South 1,445 1,445 Copper Australasia 126 126 Iron Ore Africa 95 Nickel Americas South 119 320 Nickel Africa 78 78 Nickel Australasia 37 37 Alloys Africa 399 358 Zinc Lead Americas North 244 244 Zinc Lead Americas South 160 160 3,525 3,546 6,508 6,538 Net of impairment losses discussed below.
The Group performs goodwill impairment testing on an annual basis and at the reporting date if there are indicators of impairment.
The most recent test was undertaken at 31 October 2010 and, for any assets where additional indicators of impairment were identified in November or December, testing was updated at 31 December 2010.
In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU or reportable segment is compared with its recoverable amount.
The goodwill impairment expense recognised as an exceptional item in the income statement refer to note 10, relates to the following: Impairment US$m method 2010 2009 Nickel Americas North FVLCS 655 Nickel Americas South FVLCS 201 Nickel Australasia FVLCS 55 201 710 For the purpose of goodwill impairment testing in 2009 and 2010, recoverable amounts were determined based on fair value less costs to sell FVLCS calculations, with the exception of Coal Australia goodwill, Coal Americas South goodwill and Chrome Africa goodwill which were based on value-in-use VIU calculations.
Where observable market prices are not available, FVLCS was calculated using a discounted cash flow methodology taking account of assumptions that would be made by market participants.
com 173 VIU is based on the cash flows expected to be generated from mines, smelting and refining operations included within the CGUs or reportable segments.
Cash flows are projected for periods up to the date that mining and refining are expected to cease, based on managements expectations at the time of completing the testing.
This date depends on a number of variables, including recoverable reserves and resources, the forecast selling prices for such production and the treatment charges received from the refining operations.
Cash flows have been projected for a maximum of 30 years 2009: 31 years.
Key assumptions The key assumptions used in the VIU calculations and in determining the FVLCS are: recoverable reserves and resources: commodity prices: operating costs: treatment charges receivable by smelting and refining operations: capital expenditure: discount rates: and foreign exchange rates.
Economically recoverable reserves and resources represent managements expectations at the time of completing the impairment testing, based on reserves and resource statements and exploration and evaluation work undertaken by appropriately qualified persons.
A summary of the mineral resources and ore reserves released in December 2010 is summarised as follows: Reserves Resources Million tonnes Proved Probable Measured Indicated Inferred Chrome Africa 53 14 116 100 209 Coal Africa 812 84 2,496 999 661 Coal Australia 2,182 1,601 5,244 4,726 13,189 Coal Americas South 630 51 1,737 557 381 Copper Americas North 15 3 21 2 5 Copper Americas South 1,303 3,280 2,024 6,182 7,241 Copper Australasia 53 99 888 1,225 1,016 Iron Ore Africa 152 277 188 2,492 1,307 Nickel Americas North 13 14 16 37 30 Nickel Americas South 50 30 56 124 23 Nickel Africa 14 23 21 Nickel Australasia 18 46 35 84 97 Platinum Africa 22 9 57 62 110 Vanadium Africa 12 28 22 41 90 Zinc Lead Americas North 12 2 14 2 2 Zinc Lead Australasia 86 79 321 243 212 Zinc Lead Europe 24 Long-term commodity prices and treatment charges are determined by reference to external market forecasts.
Specific prices are determined using information available in the market after considering the nature of the commodity produced and long-term market expectations.
Forecast prices vary in accordance with the year the sale is expected to occur.
The commodity prices used in the impairment review are management estimates and are within the range of the available analyst forecasts at 31 October 2010 and 31 December 2010.
The attributable value to reserves and resources using the FVLCS method is based on managements best estimates using market-based forecasts and information available in the market.
Operating cost assumptions are based on managements best estimate at the date of impairment testing of the costs to be incurred.
Costs are determined after considering current operating costs, future cost expectations and the nature and location of the operation.
Smelting and refining treatment charges vary in accordance with the commodity processes and time of processing.
Future capital expenditure is based on managements best estimate of required future capital requirements, which generally is for the extraction of existing reserves and resources.
It has been determined by taking into account all committed and anticipated capital expenditure adjusted for future cost estimates.
| 174 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 15.
Impairment testing FRQWLQXHG The discount rates that have been used are outlined below.
In the case of FVLCS they represent real after-tax rates, whereas the VIU discount rates represent real pre-tax rates.
These rates are based on the weighted average cost of capital specific to each CGU or reportable segment and the currency of the cash flows generated.
The weighted average cost of capital reflects the current market assessment of the time value of money, equity market volatility and the risks specific to the CGU or reportable segment for which cash flows have not already been adjusted.
These rates were calculated with reference to market information from third party advisers.
Discount rate Impairment method 2010 2009 Chrome VIU 10% 10% Coal VIU 10% 10% Copper VIU n a n a Copper FVLCS 7% 11% 7% 11% Nickel FVLCS 7% 10% 7% 10% Platinum FVLCS 7% 8% 7% 8% Zinc Lead FVLCS 7% 7% In assessing the FVLCS another key assumption that would be considered by market participants is foreign exchange rates.
The rates that have been utilised are based on external market forecasts.
Specific rates are determined from information available in the market after considering long-term market expectations and the countries in which the Group operates.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Whilst commodity prices have generally increased since 31 December 2009, a significant amount of commodity price and foreign exchange volatility continues to exist in the market.
Adverse changes in key assumptions as described below could result in changes to impairment charges specifically in relation to Copper Americas, Zinc Lead and Zinc Lead Europe.
A summary of the mineral resources and ore reserves related to the goodwill balances, released in December 2010, is summarised as follows: Reserves Resources Million tonnes Proved Probable Measured Indicated Inferred Copper Americas 1,318 3,283 2,045 6,184 7,246 Zinc Lead 98 81 335 245 238 A summary of the mineral resources and ore reserves related to the goodwill balances, released in January 2010, is summarised as follows: Reserves Resources Million tonnes Proved Probable Measured Indicated Inferred Copper Americas 1,159 2,726 2,986 6,374 5,626 Zinc Lead 82 82 306 197 175 Commodity prices commodity price forecasts were based on external market consensus information.
The copper prices ranged from US$2.14 per pound to US$3.76 per pound 2009 US$1.80 per pound to US$2.98 per pound, US$0.98 per pound to US$1.11 per pound 2009 US$0.77 per pound to US$1.02 per pound for zinc and US$0.79 per pound to US$1.11 per pound 2009 US$0.58 per pound to US$1.06 per pound for lead, varying in accordance with the year the sale was expected to occur.
Treatment charges received from smelting and refining in performing the FVLCS calculation for Zinc Lead, treatment charges were estimated to be in the range of US$231 per tonne to US$275 per tonne 2009 US$207 per tonne to US$271 per tonne for zinc and US$105 per tonne to US$127 per tonne 2009 US$107 per tonne to US$124 per tonne for lead refining fees, based on the year of processing.
As outlined above, these prices were based on external market consensus forecasts.
Foreign exchange rates foreign exchange rates used were based on external market consensus forecasts.
com 175 The impairment tests are particularly sensitive to changes in commodity prices, discount rates and foreign exchange rates.
Changes to these assumptions could have resulted in changes to impairment charges.
The table below summarises the change required to key assumptions that would result in the carrying value equalling the recoverable values: Change in the key assumption that Excess of would result in the recoverable amount recoverable equalling the carrying value % amount over carrying value Commodity Discount Foreign 2010 US$m prices rate exchange rate Copper Americas 5,192 15% 4% 55% Zinc Lead 3,129 17% 4% 30% Zinc Lead Europe 1,426 23% 4% 37% Amounts relate to absolute movement in discount rate.
Change in the key assumption that Excess of would result in the recoverable amount recoverable equalling the carrying value % amount over carrying value Commodity Discount Foreign 2009 US$m prices rate exchange rate Copper Americas 3,146 15% 2% 24% Zinc Lead 1,371 14% 2% 22% Zinc Lead Europe 412 15% 3% 15% Amounts relate to absolute movement in discount rate.
For the purposes of testing for impairment of goodwill using the VIU basis for chrome, the excess of recoverable amount over the carrying value was US$3,328 million 2009 US$7,780 million and management is of the opinion that no reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions could result in an impairment expense being recognised.
Other non-current assets The impairment losses recognised as an exceptional item in the income statement refer to note 10, excluding the goodwill impairment above, relate to the following: US$m 2010 2009 Copper Americas North 155 Copper Americas South 170 Nickel Americas North 719 Nickel Americas South 358 Nickel Australasia 681 Zinc Lead Americas North 118 358 1,843 2010 Impairment charges of US$358 million were incurred following a review of the Araguaia nickel project in Brazil refer to note 10.
2009 The impairment charges in Copper Americas North of US$155 million and Zinc Lead Americas North of US$118 million relate to the planned closure of the Kidd metallurgical plant scheduled for 1 May 2010 due to global smelting overcapacity, record low treatment and refining charges, increasing operating and capital costs and lower demand and sales prices for sulphuric acid.
In respect of Copper Americas South, an impairment charge of US$170 million has also been recorded as a result of these ongoing challenging market conditions for custom smelting operations refer to note 10.
Impairment charges of US$1,400 million were incurred due to the restructuring of Xstrata Nickel which included the closure of high-cost, end-of-life mines in Sudbury, the suspension of the Montcalm operations, significant reductions in operational and corporate costs, and the deferral of the Fraser Morgan and Sinclair Underground growth projects refer to note 10.
An impairment charge of US$241 million was recorded in respect of the Groups investment in Lonmin following changes in foreign exchange rates, operating costs, production, and commodity price outlook that have occurred since the acquisition date.
An amount of US$36 million was also recognised during 2009 in relation to the Groups share of the restructuring and closure costs, impairments and loss on forward exchange contracts in respect of a rights issue recognised by Lonmin refer to notes 10 and 20.
| 176 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 16.
Mining properties and leases at 31 December 2010 include deferred stripping costs of US$1,038 million 2009 US$850 million.
US$231 million 2009 US$169 million of deferred stripping costs were capitalised during the year.
Capital expenditure refer to note 9 comprises additions to intangible assets refer to note 14 and property, plant and equipment excluding deferred stripping costs capitalised during the year.
The carrying value of plant and equipment held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts at 31 December 2010 is US$155 million 2009 US$109 million.
Leased assets and assets under hire purchase contracts are pledged as security for the related finance leases and hire purchase liabilities.
The carrying value of other property, plant and equipment pledged as security is US$18 million 2009 US$nil.
com 177 US$82 million 2009 US$17 million of interest was capitalised during the year and there is US$122 million 2009 US$36 million of capitalised interest within property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2010.
The rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 5.7% 2009: 4.4%, which is the effective interest rate of the specific borrowing.
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2010 that is temporarily idle is US$51 million 2009 US$68 million.
The Group has made commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totalling US$730 million at 31 December 2010 2009 US$1,163 million.
Biological assets US$m 2010 2009 At 1 January 20 11 Additions 7 Disposals 7 Net gain loss from fair value less estimated selling cost adjustments 5 Translation adjustments 3 4 At 31 December 23 20 Biological assets are stated at fair value less estimated selling costs, which has been determined based on independent valuations as at 31 December 2010 and 2009, on the basis of open market value, supported by market evidence.
Inventories US$m 2010 2009 Current: Raw materials and consumables 1,493 1,386 Work in progress 2,285 2,238 Finished goods 985 946 4,763 4,570 Non-current: Work in progress 45 44 45 44 Non-current inventories comprises long-term ore stockpiles that are not planned to be processed within one year.
Trade and other receivables US$m 2010 2009 Current: Trade debtors 3,930 2,856 Advances 81 78 Employee entitlement receivables refer to note 32 38 18 Recoverable sales tax 347 275 Other debtors 67 79 4,463 3,306 Non-current: Employee entitlement receivables refer to note 32 51 43 Other debtors 117 38 168 81 | 178 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 20.
Investment in associates Lonmin plc In August 2008, the Group acquired 16,706,481 shares in Lonmin plc for US$1,084 million.
In October 2008, the Group acquired an additional 22,232,940 shares for US$794 million, resulting in a total acquisition price of US$1,878 million.
Following the October 2008 transaction, the Group held 24.9% of Lonmin plc and determined it was an associate of the Group.
Lonmin plc which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and Johannesburg Stock Exchange is one of the worlds largest platinum producers with operations principally in South Africa.
In June 2009, the Group acquired 8,653,204 shares in Lonmin plc for US$112 million as part of a 2 for 9 Rights Issue of 35.1 million new ordinary shares at GBP9.00 per new share for shareholders on the London Stock Exchange and at ZAR113.04 per new share for shareholders on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
In May 2010, the Group acquired 2,233,600 shares in Lonmin plc for US$58 million as part of a Placement Issue of 9.1 million new ordinary shares at GBP17.65 per new share for shareholders on the London Stock Exchange and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
The Groups current shareholding as at 31 December 2010 as a result of the dilution from the share placing is 24.67%.
The share price of Lonmin as listed on the London stock exchange at 31 December 2010 was GBP19.66 per share 2009 GBP19.59 per share.
The Group believes that the recoverable amount of the investment using the VIU method was higher than the value based on the listed share price at that date because this share price continues to reflect ongoing uncertainty and volatility in world economic markets as opposed to the fundamental long-term value of this investment, therefore the carrying value is supported on a VIU basis.
However, during 2009, the Group recognised a net exceptional impairment charge of US$241 million after determining the recoverable amount of the investment was lower than the carrying amount refer to notes 10 and 15.
The carrying amount of Lonmin at 31 December 2010 was US$1,558 million 2009 US$1,603 million.
Other associates The Groups other associates are: interests in coal terminals Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Ltd, Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited and Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Ltd, through which it gains access to export markets refer to note 36 : and a 25% interest in the Noranda Income Fund which owns a zinc refinery in , Quebec.
The Group held 12.5 million 2009: 12.5 million units in the Noranda Income Fund and the unit price as listed on the Toronto stock exchange at 31 December 2010 was CAD4.65 per unit 2009 CAD2.55 per unit.
The Group has determined that the recoverable amount of the investment calculated using the VIU method is higher than the value based on the listed unit price because of the continued uncertainty and volatility in world economic markets.
The companies which own the coal terminals are not listed so there is no published quoted price for the value of these investments.
The Group estimates that the carrying value of these investments is equal to fair value.
com 179 The following is a summary of the financial information for the associates: US$m 2010 2009 Share of associates balance sheet: Non-current assets 2,545 2,548 Current assets 608 617 Total assets 3,153 3,165 Non-current liabilities 835 815 Current liabilities 317 305 Total liabilities 1,152 1,120 Non-controlling interests 215 255 Net attributable assets 1,786 1,790 Carrying amount of the investment 1,786 1,790 Share of associates revenue and profit: Revenue 594 409 EBITDA 116 1 EBIT 43 361 Net interest paid 4 16 Income tax expense benefit 24 35 Profit loss for the year 15 342 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 9 333 Non-controlling interests 6 9 15 342 All associates have a reporting date of 31 December, except for Lonmin, which has a reporting date of 30 September.
The Groups share of results from associates is included above.
The Groups share of Lonmins results is based on Lonmins financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2010 and adjusted for any significant known transactions between October and December 2010.
| 180 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 21.
Interests in joint venture entities The Group has various interests in jointly controlled entities, operations and assets as outlined in note 36.
The Group recognises its interests in jointly controlled entities using the proportionate method of consolidation as outlined in note 6.
The following is a summary of the financial information of the Groups jointly controlled entities in Africa and South America: US$m 2010 2009 Share of joint ventures balance sheets: Non-current assets 10,207 9,921 Current assets 1,129 994 Total assets 11,336 10,915 Non-current liabilities 2,025 2,034 Current liabilities 495 362 Total liabilities 2,520 2,396 Net assets 8,816 8,519 Net assets consolidated 8,816 8,519 Share of joint ventures revenue and profit: Revenue 2,803 2,370 Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 583 622 EBITDA 2,220 1,748 Depreciation and amortisation 366 378 EBIT 1,854 1,370 Finance income 70 354 Finance costs 24 8 Profit before tax 1,900 1,716 Income tax expense 371 431 Profit for the year 1,529 1,285 22.
Available-for-sale financial assets US$m 2010 2009 At fair value: Shares listed 160 216 Shares unlisted 5 4 Royalty contract 182 144 347 364 Available-for-sale financial assets consist of a long-term royalty income contract and investments in listed and unlisted ordinary shares that have no fixed maturity date or coupon rate.
These investments are held for strategic purposes.
In 2010 and 2009, the listed shares related to companies in the mining industry.
The listed shares are carried at fair value.
In 2010, listed shares with a carrying value of US$135 million were sold for a gain of US$73 million.
Unlisted shares mainly comprise interests in ports in Australia used to export coal and are carried at fair value.
Derivative financial assets US$m 2010 2009 Current: At fair value: Foreign currency cash flow hedges 126 144 Fair value interest rate hedges 77 Other interest rate derivatives 1 Other foreign currency derivatives 32 15 236 159 Non-current: At fair value: Foreign currency cash flow hedges 84 Fair value interest rate hedges 529 566 Other interest rate derivatives 41 48 570 698 Total 806 857 24.
Other financial assets US$m 2010 2009 Current: At amortised cost: Investment in operations 2,424 2,424 Non-current: At fair value: Rehabilitation trust fund 91 77 Loans to joint venture partners 375 234 Other 48 37 514 348 Total 514 2,772 Investment in operations Following shareholder approval, the Group acquired 100% of the Prodeco Colombian coal operations Prodeco from Glencore International AG Glencore on 3 March 2009 for a net cost of US$2 billion and the rights to Prodecos earnings from 1 January 2009.
The Group agreed to grant Glencore a call option to repurchase Prodeco, on any business day up to 4 March 2010, for US$2.25 billion, plus minus the net cash paid to received from Prodeco and all profits of Prodeco accrued but not distributed to the Group.
The investment in Prodeco is included on the balance sheet at 31 December 2009 within current other financial assets.
The profits of Prodeco are recognised as finance income in the period earned and the call option premium is included in finance income proportionately over the life of the option refer to note 10.
On 4 March 2010, the Group received formal notification from Glencore of the exercise of its option to acquire the Prodeco coal operations for US$2.25 billion plus the balance of any profits accrued but not distributed to Xstrata during the period 1 January 2009 to the completion date and the net balance of any cash invested by Xstrata.
Rehabilitation trust fund The rehabilitation trust fund in South Africa receives cash contributions to accumulate funds for the Groups rehabilitation liabilities relating to the eventual closure of the Groups coal operations.
Amounts are paid out from the trust fund following completion and approval of the rehabilitation work by the South African Department of Minerals and Energy.
The contributions to the trust fund are placed with investment banks that are responsible for making investments in equity and money market instruments.
The trust fund is to be used according to the terms of the trust deed and the assets are not available for the general purposes of the Group.
The trust fund is carried at fair value.
Loans to joint venture partners ZAR denominated loans of US$375 million 2009 US$234 million are receivable from ARM Coal.
The loan is subject to a floating rate of interest with no fixed repayment date.
| 182 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 25.
Cash and cash equivalents and non-cash transactions US$m 2010 2009 Cash at bank and in hand 733 670 Short-term deposits 989 507 1,722 1,177 The majority of cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates of interest with a limited amount at fixed rates of interest or interest-free.
Short-term deposits are made at call and for less than one week, dependent on the short-term cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest based on the respective short-term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 approximates carrying value.
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December: US$m 2010 2009 Cash at bank and in hand 733 670 Short-term deposits 989 507 Bank overdrafts refer to note 28 12 12 1,710 1,165 During the year, the Group entered into new finance leases and hire purchase contracts to purchase various items of plant and equipment for US$68 million 2009 US$67 million, issued shares from the conversion of the convertible borrowings and issued shares to the ESOP for a market value of US$nil 2009 US$102 million which did not require the use of cash and cash equivalents and are not included in the net cash flow used in investing and financing activities in the consolidated cash flow statement.
Capital and reserves US$m Authorised: 1,500,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 1 January 2009 750 3,000,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each increased on 2 March 2009 1,500 4,500,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2010 2,250 50,000 deferred shares of GBP1.00 each as at 31 December 2009 and at 31 December 2010 1 special voting share of US$0.50 as at 31 December 2009 and as at 31 December 2010 2,250 Issued, called up and fully paid: 977,670,540 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 1 January 2009 488 1,955,341,080 ordinary shares issued on 18 March 2009 from a shareholder rights issue 978 6,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 17 December 2009 to the ESOP 3 2,939,011,620 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2009 1,469 25,680,456 ordinary shares issued on the exercise of convertible borrowings 13 2,964,692,076 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2010 1,482 Share premium: As at 1 January 2009 10,308 1,955,341,080 ordinary shares issued on 18 March 2009 from a shareholder rights issue 4,689 6,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 17 December 2009 to the ESOP 99 As at 31 December 2009 15,096 25,680,456 ordinary shares issued on the exercise of convertible borrowings 382 As at 31 December 2010 15,478 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 183 US$m Own shares: 21,654,986 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 1 January 2009 1,332 Proceeds from the sale of rights issue entitlements 48 16,377,594 ordinary shares acquired from rights issue on 18 March 2009 48 6,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 17 December 2009 to the ESOP 102 4,228,231 ordinary shares disposed during the year 134 822,529 ordinary shares purchased during the year 6 40,626,878 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2009 1,306 5,832,841 ordinary shares disposed during the year 136 521,098 ordinary shares purchased during the year 11 35,315,135 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2010 1,181 Details in respect of the various classes of shares are outlined in the Directors Report on page 108.
Issue of ordinary shares On 18 March 2009, 1,955,341,080 ordinary shares were issued under a rights issue which was structured as an issue of 2 new ordinary shares at a price of GBP2.10 per share for every 1 existing ordinary share held.
The net proceeds from the rights issue were US$5,667 million after US$126 million of capital raising costs and the number of shares in issue of Xstrata plc following the completion of the rights issue was 2,933,011,620.
On 17 December 2009, 6,000,000 shares were issued to the ESOP at a market price of GBP10.47 per share.
During 2010, the US$375 million convertible borrowings were converted at the option of the holders into 25,680,456 ordinary shares in Xstrata plc refer to note 29.
Own shares Own shares comprise shares of Xstrata plc held in the ESOP and shares held by Batiss Investments Batiss for the ECMP.
The shares acquired by the ESOP are either stock market purchases or share issues from the Company.
The ESOP is used to co-ordinate the funding and manages the delivery of ordinary shares for options and free share awards under the Groups employee award schemes.
The trustee of the ESOP is permitted to place the shares back into the market and may hold up to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at any one time.
At 31 December 2010, 6,886,349 2009: 12,198,092 shares, equivalent to 0.2% 2009: 0.4% of the total issued share capital, were held by the trust with a cost of US$155 million 2009 US$280 million and market value of US$162 million 2009 US$221 million.
The trust has waived the right to receive dividends from the shares that it holds.
Costs relating to the administration of the trust are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
The shares acquired from the stock market by Batiss and held for the ECMP are used by the Group as a source of financing for future acquisitions, or placed back into the market.
The decision as to when to place the shares in the market, use the shares to assist the Group in facilitating future transactions, or to repurchase shares for cancellation, is considered in light of the Groups funding requirements and capital structure.
Batiss is not permitted to hold more than 10% of the issued share capital of the Company at any one time.
Batiss has entered into an option agreement with Xstrata Capital Corporation A. V. V. Xstrata Capital, a wholly-owned subsidiary within the Xstrata Group, whereby Batiss has granted to Xstrata Capital a right to require Batiss to sell the purchased Xstrata shares to a third party other than a subsidiary of Xstrata plc, as nominated by Xstrata Capital, at an exercise price of 1p per share.
Under the option agreement, Xstrata Capital pays Batiss a premium for this right, the premium being the equivalent of the market price paid by Batiss for the shares plus associated costs less the 1p exercise price.
This premium payment, together with funds from a subscription by Xstrata Capital for non-voting redeemable preference shares in Batiss, provides the funding for Batiss to acquire the shares in the market.
These payments are sourced from the existing and future cash resources of Xstrata Capital.
Xstrata Capital is able to exercise its right under the option agreement for a period of six years from the date of each purchase, but has not chosen to do so in either 2010 or 2009.
Batiss has waived its right to receive dividends on the shares that it holds.
At 31 December 2010, 28,428,786 2009: 28,428,786 shares, equivalent to 1.0% 2009: 1.0% of the total issued share capital, were held by the trust with a cost of US$1,026 million 2009 US$1,026 million and market value of US$668 million 2009 US$515 million.
| 184 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 26.
Capital and reserves FRQWLQXHG Consolidated changes in equity Other reserves Foreign Revaluation Other Net unrealised currency US$m reserves reserves gains losses translation Total At 31 December 2008 1,440 1,229 107 1,108 1,454 Gains on available-for-sale financial assets 209 209 Realised losses on available-for-sale financial assets 1 1 Gains on cash flow hedges 456 456 Realised gains on cash flow hedges 312 312 Foreign currency translation differences 3,930 3,930 Deferred tax 59 73 132 At 31 December 2009 1,440 1,229 188 2,749 5,606 Gains on available-for-sale financial assets 118 118 Realised gains on available-for-sale financial assets 73 73 Gains on cash flow hedges 117 117 Realised gains on cash flow hedges 131 131 Foreign currency translation differences 2,459 2,459 Deferred tax 9 48 57 At 31 December 2010 1,440 1,229 210 5,160 8,039 Recycled gains of US$115 million 2009 US$312 million are included in Revenue in the income statement, including non-controlling interests.
Revaluation reserves This reserve principally records the remeasurement from cost of the 19.9% interest held in Falconbridge Limited Falconbridge to the fair value of 19.9% of the identifiable net assets of Falconbridge on 15 August 2006, the date the Group obtained control of Falconbridge.
Other reserves This reserve principally originated during 2002 from the merger of Xstrata AG into Xstrata plc of US$279 million and the issue of shares from the acquisition of the Duiker and Enex Groups of US$935 million.
Net unrealised gains losses reserve This reserve records the remeasurement of available-for-sale financial assets to fair value refer to note 22 and the effective portion of the gain or loss on cash flow hedging contracts refer to notes 23, 30 and 37.
Deferred tax is provided on the remeasurement at tax rates enacted or substantively enacted.
Foreign currency translation reserve This is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record the exchange differences from the translation of quasi equity inter-company loans in foreign operations.
On disposal or partial disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred accumulated amount recognised in this reserve is transferred to the income statement.
Capital management The capital of Xstrata plc is the total equity and long-term borrowings, including capital market notes refer to note 28 and convertible borrowings refer to note 29, on the Groups balance sheet.
The objective of the Companys capital management is to grow and manage a diversified portfolio of metals and mining businesses with the aim of delivering industry-leading returns for its shareholders.
The management of the Groups capital is performed by the Board of Directors.
There are no externally imposed capital requirements.
Trade and other payables US$m 2010 2009 Current: Trade payables 2,544 1,796 Sundry payables 730 619 Interest payable 67 72 Accruals and other payables 1,461 1,210 4,802 3,697 Non-current: Accruals and other payables 88 32 88 32 Total 4,890 3,729 All current payables are expected to be settled in the next 12 months and non-current payables are expected to be settled over a weighted average life of six years 2009: six years.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings US$m 2010 2009 Current: At amortised cost: Bank overdrafts 12 12 Bank loans other unsecured 40 46 Capital market notes 2,192 97 Non-controlling interest loans 5 i Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 74 46 2,318 206 Non-current: At amortised cost: Syndicated bank loans unsecured 3,827 Bank loans other unsecured 173 174 Capital market notes 6,550 8,924 Non-controlling interest loans 243 181 i Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 177 135 Other loans 11 11 7,154 13,252 Non-current: At amortised cost: Convertible borrowings refer to note 29 335 Total 9,472 13,793 Less cash and cash equivalents refer to note 25 1,722 1,177 Net debt excluding hedges 7,750 12,616 Hedges 112 326 Net debt including hedges 7,638 12,290 i Secured over specific items of plant and equipment refer to note 16.
Net debt is defined as loans and borrowings net of cash and cash equivalents.
Derivative financial instruments that have been designated specifically to provide a hedge of capital market notes have been included above to reflect a more accurate economic position of the Groups overall net debt at year end.
Existing facilities in 2010 The Xstrata Group has entered into bank loans described below: Syndicated bank loans On 25 July 2007, the Group entered into a guaranteed US$4,680 million multi-currency revolving syndicated loan facility Syndicated Facilities Agreement.
Interest is payable on drawn down amounts at a rate that is the aggregate of LIBOR or, in relation to any loan in Euro, EURIBOR and the relevant margin, which is 27.5 basis points per annum.
The facility matures on 25 July 2012.
As of 31 December 2010, US$4,680 million 2009 US$840 million was available to be drawn under this facility.
| 186 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 28.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings FRQWLQXHG On 17 September 2010, the Group entered into a guaranteed US$4,000 million multi-currency revolving syndicated loan facility Syndicate Facilities Agreement split into two US$2 billion tranches, with one tranche maturing three-years after the date of the facility and the other maturing five-years after the date of the facility.
Interest is payable on drawn down amounts at a rate that is the aggregate of LIBOR or, in relation to any loan in Euro, EURIBOR and the relevant margin, which is 90.0 basis points per annum under the three-year tranche and 100.0 basis points per annum under the five-year tranche respectively.
As of 31 December 2010, US$4,000 million was available to be drawn under this facility.
Repaid facilities On 6 October 2008, the Group entered into a US$5,000 million multi-currency revolving syndicated loan facility Club Facility scheduled to mature on 30 September 2011.
Interest is payable on drawn down amounts at a rate that is the aggregate of LIBOR or, in relation to any loan in Euro, EURIBOR and the relevant margin, which is 150 basis points per annum.
The Club Facility was amended on 30 December 2008 to increase the facility amount to US$5,459 million and on 9 April 2010 to decrease the facility amount to US$3,000 million.
During 2009, the amounts drawn down under this facility were fully repaid from the proceeds from the rights issue refer to note 26.
This facility was cancelled during 2010 and replaced with the US$4,000 million syndicated loan facility.
Capital market notes As at 31 December 2010, other unsecured private placements included: Effective Effective At Fixed or interest At interest 31 Dec 10 floating rate % 31 Dec 09 rate % Facility Denomination US$m interest rate in 2010 Maturity US$m in 2009 a Series B senior unsecured notes US$ 13 Fixed 6.75 Jun 11 26 6.75 a Series B senior unsecured notes US$ 52 Fixed 7.00 Jun 11 52 7.00 b Unsecured notes US$ 751 Fixed 5.50 Nov 11 770 5.50 b Unsecured notes US$ 1,144 Fixed 5.80 Nov 16 1,096 5.80 c Unsecured notes EUR 722 Fixed 4.88 Jun 12 782 4.88 c Unsecured notes EUR 774 Fixed 5.25 Jun 17 810 5.25 d Unsecured notes US$ 494 Fixed 6.90 Nov 37 494 6.90 e Unsecured notes EUR 1,039 Fixed 5.88 May 11 1,133 5.88 e Unsecured notes EUR 874 Fixed 6.25 May 15 919 6.25 e Unsecured notes GBP 842 Fixed 7.38 May 20 845 7.38 f Senior debentures US$ 308 Fixed 6.03 Feb 11 327 6.03 f Senior debentures US$ 265 Fixed 5.88 Jun 12 271 5.88 f Senior debentures US$ 305 Fixed 6.06 Jul 12 308 6.06 f Senior debentures US$ 391 Fixed 6.34 Oct 15 377 6.34 f Senior debentures US$ 264 Fixed 6.16 Jun 15 257 6.16 f Senior debentures US$ 240 Fixed 6.39 Jun 17 238 6.39 f Senior debentures US$ 234 Fixed 6.77 Jun 35 234 6.77 g Commercial paper US$ 30 Floating 0.42 Jan 11 82 0.92 8,742 9,021 a An Australian subsidiary has designated the series B senior unsecured notes as a fair value hedge of an investment in South America refer to note 37.
The hedge is being used to reduce exposure to foreign currency risk.
b In November 2006, the Group issued guaranteed capital market notes to refinance existing debt facilities of a US$1,000 million 10-year note at a fixed interest rate of 5.8% and a US$750 million five-year note at a fixed interest rate of 5.5%.
c In June 2007 the Group issued a two-tranche EUR1,000 million guaranteed bond offering, comprising EUR500 million 4.875% fixed guaranteed notes due 2012 and EUR500 million 5.25% fixed guaranteed notes due 2017.
These bonds have been swapped to US$.
The swaps have been accounted for as cash flow hedges with an unrealised loss of US$12 million 2009 gain of US$82 million at 31 December 2010 refer to note 37. d In November 2007, the Group issued guaranteed 30-year notes of US$500 million bearing interest at a fixed rate of 6.9%.
e In May 2008 the Group issued a two-tranche EUR1,350 million guaranteed bond offering, comprising EUR750 million 5.875% fixed guaranteed notes due 2011 and EUR600 million 6.25% fixed guaranteed notes due 2015.
In May 2008 the Group issued a guaranteed bond offering of GBP500 million 7.375% fixed guaranteed notes due 2020.
The swaps have been accounted for as cash flow hedges with an unrealised loss of US$510 million at 31 December 2010 2009 US$356 million.
f The guaranteed senior debentures were assumed by the Group through the acquisition of Falconbridge in 2006.
Pursuant to the terms of the note indentures as amended by supplemental indentures, Xstrata plc has fully and unconditionally guaranteed in favour of the holders of the senior debentures the payment, within 15 days of when due, of all financial liabilities and obligations of Xstrata Canada Corporation to such holders under the terms of the senior debentures.
g In February 2008, the Group entered into a US$1,000 million commercial paper programme facility, with maturities of up to 12 months.
Interest is payable on the notes at a rate that is based on LIBOR.
com 187 During 2009, the Group redeemed all of the three-year floating rate US$500 million capital market notes in November 2009 for US$499 million and US$31 million of the five-year fixed rate US$750 million capital market notes, maturing November 2011 for US$26 million, resulting in a gain of US$6 million.
A portion of the fixed interest rate of the unsecured notes and senior debentures has been swapped to a floating rate.
The swaps have been accounted for as fair value hedges with an unrealised gain of US$609 million 2009 US$569 million gain at 31 December 2010 refer to note 37.
Hedging ineffectiveness during 2010 resulted in other financial loss of US$6 million 2009 US$17 million.
Bank loans other unsecured The Group has debts of proportionally consolidated joint ventures of US$139 million 2009 US$139 million which bear interest at a rate based on LIBOR plus 175 basis points, repayable in August 2012, US$34 million 2009 US$nil which bear interest at a rate based on LIBOR plus 187 basis points, repayable in April 2015, and US$40 million 2009 US$81 million which bear interest at a rate based on LIBOR plus 31 basis points, repayable by December 2011.
Bank overdrafts unsecured The Group has bank overdrafts that are subject to local and US$ prime floating interest rates in which they have been drawn down.
The majority of the bank overdrafts are denominated in Canadian and US dollars.
Non-controlling interest loans Non-controlling interest loans include US$81 million 2009 US$81 million advanced to Minera Alumbrera Limited to fund operations that are subject to a fixed rate of 7.2% per annum 2009: 7.2% per annum, repayable by May 2012.
AUD denominated loans of US$162 million 2009 US$100 million are payable to Indophil Resources Limited for the Tampakan copper project.
The loan is subject to a fixed rate of interest of 4%, payable quarterly with no fixed repayment date, and is not payable within 12 months.
A non-controlling interest loan of US$nil 2009 US$5 million has been advanced to Resource Pacific that is subject to a floating rate based on the Reserve Bank of Australia cash rate plus 2.0% per annum, no fixed repayment date, but is expected to be repaid within the next 12 months.
Other loans Other loans include: US$ denominated loans of US$5 million 2009 US$105 million payable to WMC International Resources Pty Limited for the Tampakan copper project.
The loan is subject to a fixed rate of interest of 10%, with no fixed repayment date and is not payable within 12 months: and A loan of US$6 million 2009 US$6 million from the Cantabria Government and the Spanish Ministry of Industry & Energy, unsecured and interest free.
Convertible borrowings US$m 2010 2009 Convertible bond 335 335 Convertible borrowings On 6 September 2005, Xstrata Capital Corporation AVV issued a US$375 million convertible debenture to Brookfield, due 14 August 2017, convertible at the option of the holder into fully paid Xstrata plc ordinary shares.
The convertible debenture was guaranteed by the Company and was issued at par, with a coupon of 4.0% per annum.
On issue it was convertible at any time on or after 14 August 2006 at the option of the holder into 12,100,332 ordinary shares in Xstrata plc based on a conversion price of GBP17.13 US$30.99 converted into GBP at a fixed exchange rate per ordinary share, representing a 35% premium to the closing price of Xstrata plcs ordinary shares on 11 August 2005.
Following the rights issue in October 2006, the total number of ordinary shares that could have been converted was increased to 13,575,432 and the conversion price was adjusted to GBP15.27 US$27.62 converted into GBP at a fixed exchange rate.
On the giving of not less than 30 days notice, the convertible debenture could have been called by the Group at par plus accrued interest, at any time after 14 August 2010.
Unless previously converted, redeemed or cancelled, the 2017 convertible debenture was redeemable on 14 August 2017 at its principal amount plus unpaid accrued interest.
On 13 October 2006, the convertible debenture was cancelled and a 2017 convertible bond was issued to the holder of the convertible debenture.
The terms of the convertible bond are consistent with those of the cancelled convertible debenture.
On 16 October 2006, the Financial Services Authority approved the admission to the Official List by way of block listing of 13,575,432 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each to be issued upon conversion of the 2017 convertible bond.
The 2017 convertible bond was listed on the Professional Securities Market of the London Stock Exchange.
The liability component of the convertible bonds was carried at amortised cost based on an effective interest rate of 5.74% per annum.
| 188 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 29.
Convertible borrowings FRQWLQXHG During 2008, 0.03% of the US$375 million of convertible bonds was converted by the holders and, following the conversions that occurred during 2008, the remaining number of ordinary shares that could be issued under the bond at 31 December 2008 was 13,571,812.
Following the rights issue in March 2009, the total number of ordinary shares that could have been converted was increased to 25,680,492 and the conversion price was adjusted to GBP8.07 US$14.60 converted into GBP at a fixed exchange rate.
During 2010, the balance of the US$375 million of convertible bonds was converted by the holders refer to note 26.
Derivative financial liabilities US$m 2010 2009 Current: At fair value: Commodity cash flow hedges 50 52 Foreign currency cash flow hedges 170 Other foreign currency derivatives 163 383 52 Non-current: At fair value: Foreign currency cash flow hedges 352 356 Other foreign currency derivatives 135 Other interest rate derivatives 14 14 366 505 Total 749 557 31.
Other financial liabilities US$m 2010 2009 Non-current: At fair value: Loans from joint venture partners 236 155 At amortised cost: Loans from development project partners 420 383 Total 656 538 Loans from joint venture partners A ZAR denominated loan of US$236 million 2009 US$155 million is payable to ARM Coal.
The loan is subject to a floating rate of interest based on a dividend calculation with no fixed repayment date and is not callable within 12 months.
Loans from development project partners A US$ denominated loan of US$420 million 2009 US$383 million is payable to Socit Minire du Sud Pacifique for the Koniambo nickel project.
Provisions PostShare-based retirement Employee compensation medical Rehabilitation Onerous US$m entitlements plans plans costs contracts Other 2010 At 1 January 477 224 444 1,860 182 280 3,467 Arising during the year 289 62 90 40 4 132 617 Discount unwinding 3 104 10 117 PPE asset adjustment refer to note 16 255 255 Utilised 227 19 25 123 41 132 567 Translation adjustments 54 15 26 93 23 9 190 At 31 December 596 252 535 2,229 178 289 4,079 Current 397 102 25 187 711 Non-current 199 252 535 2,127 153 102 3,368 596 252 535 2,229 178 289 4,079 PostShare-based retirement Employee compensation medical Rehabilitation Onerous US$m entitlements plans plans costs contracts Other 2009 At 1 January 430 16 345 1,551 198 194 2,734 Arising during the year 153 222 65 63 25 193 721 Discount unwinding 95 5 100 PPE asset adjustment refer to note 16 181 181 Transferred to assets classified as held-for-sale 3 56 59 Utilised 183 14 22 97 72 120 508 Unused amounts reversed 2 12 18 32 Translation adjustments 82 56 135 44 13 330 At 31 December 477 224 444 1,860 182 280 3,467 Current 3259229 177623 Non-current 1522244441,768153 1032,844 4772244441,860182 2803,467 Employee entitlements The employee entitlement provisions mainly represent the value of excess leave entitlements allocated over the leave taken by the employees of the Group.
These amounts are expected to be utilised as the employees either take their accrued leave or receive equivalent benefits upon ceasing employment.
Current employee entitlements include excess short-term leave entitlements and the portion of non-current employee entitlements that are expected to be incurred within 12 months.
Non-current entitlements include long service leave entitlements that are payable upon an employee attaining a certain period of service and workers, compensation provisions.
For some entitlements, amounts will also be recovered from an independent fund refer to note 19.
The current portion of these costs is expected to be utilised in the next 12 months and the non-current portion of these costs is expected to be utilised over a weighted average life of eight years 2009: nine years.
Share-based compensation plans The Group has granted various share-based compensation plans to certain executives and senior employees that will be cash-settled refer to note 35.
The intrinsic value of the cash settled share-based compensation plans that had vested at 31 December 2010 was US$53 million 2009 US$39 million.
Post-retirement medical plans The Group operates unfunded post-retirement medical benefit plans in North America and a comparatively smaller plan in South Africa for a number of current and former employees.
Independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method assess the accumulated benefit obligation and annual cost of accrued benefits.
The current portion of these costs is expected to be utilised in the next 12 months and the non-current portion of these costs is expected to be utilised over a weighted average life of 20 years 2009: 19 years refer to note 35.
| 190 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 32.
Provisions FRQWLQXHG Rehabilitation costs Rehabilitation provision represents the estimated costs required to provide adequate restoration and rehabilitation upon the completion of mining activities.
These amounts will reverse when such rehabilitation has been performed.
The current portion of these costs is expected to be utilised in the next 12 months and the non-current portion of these costs is expected to be utilised over a weighted average life of 29 years 2009: 21 years refer to note 24.
Onerous contracts Onerous contract provisions represent the restatement of various long-term contracts to their current market value at the acquisition date of subsidiaries.
These provisions are expected to be utilised over a weighted average life of 10 years 2009: 15 years.
Other Other includes provisions for litigation of US$59 million 2009 US$60 million and restructuring of US$23 million 2009 US$96 million.
The current portion of these costs is expected to be utilised in the next 12 months and the non-current portion of these costs is expected to be utilised over a weighted average life of two years 2009: two years.
Other liabilities US$m 2010 2009 Current: Deferred income 30 39 30 39 Non-current: Deferred income 9 9 9 9 34.
Commitments and contingencies Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has entered into leases for buildings, motor vehicles and sundry plant and equipment.
These leases have an average life of five years 2009: five years with renewal terms at the option of the lessee at lease payments based on market prices at the time of renewal.
There are no restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows: US$m 2010 2009 Less than 1 year 44 43 Between 1 and 5 years 83 91 More than 5 years 21 30 148 164 Finance lease and hire purchase commitments The Group has entered into finance leases and hire purchase contracts for various items of plant and machinery.
The majority of these leases include a residual balloon payment at the end of the lease term and title passing to the Group.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts together with the future finance charges as at 31 December are as follows: Present Present Un-discounted value of Un-discounted value of minimum minimum minimum minimum payments payments payments payments US$m 2010 2010 2009 2009 Less than 1 year 96 74 65 46 Between 1 and 5 years 122 49 168 109 More than 5 years 190 128 46 26 Total minimum lease payments 408 251 279 181 Less amounts representing finance lease charges 157 98 Present value of minimum lease payments 251 251 181 181 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 191 Capital commitments Amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements amounted to US$2,163 million 2009 US$2,048 million, including: Xstrata Coal US$140 million for fleet expansion at Mangoola and Liddell 2009 US$663 million : Xstrata Copper US$244 million for the Ernest Henry underground and magnetite facility and US$374 million for the Antapaccay expansion project 2009 US$ nil : and Xstrata Nickel US$523 million 2009 US$623 million for the Koniambo project.
The balance of the other amounts contracted for but not provided relates to various minor commitments around the Group, mainly for the purchase of new property, plant and equipment.
Included in the above is US$272 million 2009 US$732 million representing the Groups share of the capital commitments that have been incurred jointly with other venturers.
Finance leases entered into after 31 December 2010 amounted to US$nil 2009 US$nil.
Guarantees Xstrata Coal Australia has contracted US$1,580 million 2009 US$1,676 million for rail take or pay commitments, US$2,473 million 2009 US$2,358 million for port take or pay commitments, US$114 million for tyres take or pay commitments 2009 US$127 million, US$30 million 2009 US$51 million for electricity take or pay commitments, US$266 million 2009 US$262 million for explosives take or pay commitments, US$126 million 2009 US$109 million for performance guarantees to customers and suppliers under contracts for supply of coal and services and US$260 million 2009 US$312 million for guarantees to the New South Wales and Queensland Departments for Mineral Resources in respect of various mining leases and the performance thereof.
Xstrata Coal South Africa has issued guarantees to the Department of Minerals and Energy to obtain certain prospecting permits of US$81 million 2009 US$66 million and performance guarantees to suppliers of US$6 million 2009 US$8 million.
Xstrata Coal South Africa has tyres take or pay commitments of US$37 million 2009 US$20 million.
Xstrata Alloys has issued guarantees to Eskom for power usage and early termination of power usage of US$16 million 2009 US$21 million and to the Department of Mineral and Energy Mineral Resources, municipalities and governmental boards in respect of various mining leases and the performance thereof for US$31 million 2009 US$34 million.
Xstrata Copper and Xstrata Technology Australia have issued performance guarantees to customers for US$40 million 2009 US$36 million and guarantees to the Queensland Departments for Mineral Resources and other government agencies in respect of various mining leases and the performance thereof, environmental bonds and self insurance licences for US$212 million 2009 US$195 million.
Xstrata Nickel has contracted US$299 million 2009 US$143 million for energy purchase commitments of which US$10 million 2009 US$nil has been issued to a supplier as a letter of credit, and issued bank guarantees to the Government of Western Australia for rehabilitation costs of US$3 million 2009 US$6 million.
Xstrata Zinc has issued performance guarantees to the Northern Territory government for an electricity supply and pipeline agreement of US$10 million 2009 US$14 million, and to suppliers of US$1 million 2009 US$2 million.
It has provided bank guarantees to the Northern Territory government for rehabilitation costs of US$79 million 2009 US$68 million.
Xstrata Zinc has issued bank guarantees in Spain of US$60 million 2009 US$58 million.
This includes US$5 million 2009 US$5 million as a guarantee to the local government for the rehabilitation of the closed Reocin mine Cantabria, Spain and US$2 million 2009 US$2 million as guarantee of the rehabilitation of a jarofix pond in San Juan fide Nieva.
A letter of credit of US$194 million 2009 US$192 million has been given for the pension liabilities of the Groups Canadian operations.
Letters of credit have been issued to the Canadian government for rehabilitation costs of US$124 million 2009 US$64 million.
Included in the above is US$4,697 million 2009 US$3,748 million representing the Groups share of guarantees that have been incurred jointly with other venturers.
| 192 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 35.
Employee benefits Share-based payments The expense recognised for share-based payments during the year is shown in the following table: US$m 2010 2009 Expense arising from equity-settled transactions 116 112 Expense arising from cash-settled transactions 62 222 Total expense arising from share-based payment transactions 178 334 The Group operates a number of share-based payment plans which are outlined below.
There have been no cancellations or modifications to any of the plans during 2010 or 2009.
Xstrata plc Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP has two elements: i A contingent award of free ordinary shares that vests after three years, subject to, and to the extent that, performance criteria determined at the time of grant have been satisfied: and ii An option to acquire ordinary shares at a specified exercise price after the third anniversary of grant, subject to, and to the extent that, performance criteria determined at the time of grant have been satisfied.
All LTIP awards that vest are subject to the satisfaction of certain performance criteria being met over a three-year performance period.
The 2003 LTIP awards are only subject to the Total Shareholder Return TSR performance criteria.
Half of the options and free share awards granted in 2004 and 2005 are conditional on TSR relative to a peer group, with the remainder conditional on the Groups real cost savings relative to targets set on a stretching scale over the three-year period.
Options and free share awards made to corporate employees in 2006, 2007 and 2008 were granted on the same basis as in 2004 and 2005.
75% of options and free shares awarded to business unit employees in 2006, 2007 and 2008 are conditional on achieving real cost savings and the remaining 25% are conditional on TSR performance criteria.
No vesting will occur for below median performance.
For the awards where vesting is conditional on the Groups real cost savings relative to targets set on a stretching scale: 10% of the award will vest for 1% cost savings, 70% for 2% cost savings and all awards for 3% or more cost savings, with straightline vesting between these points.
No vesting will occur if cost savings are less than 1%.
Real cost savings are measured in relation to operating costs after adjusting for the effects of inflation, excluding depreciation, commodity price-linked costs, effects of currencies on translation of local currency costs, and planned life-of-mine adjustments.
No other features of the LTIP awards are incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
com 193 No consideration will be payable on the vesting of an LTIP award of free ordinary shares.
On exercise of an option, a participant will be required to pay an exercise price that is based on the closing market price of an ordinary share seven trading days prior to the date of grant.
Of the options listed below, 5.5 million 2009: 4.5 million are accounted for as cash-settled share-based awards whilst the remainder of the LTIP awards are equity-settled.
The movement in the number of free ordinary shares and share options are as follows: Free shares 2010 2009 Number Number Outstanding as at 1 January 12,159,847 2,765,198 Granted through rights issue 2,111,982 Granted during the year 4,280,689 9,019,389 Forfeited during the year 1,182,800 732,221 1 2 Exercised during the year 993,489 1,004,501 3 3 Outstanding as at 31 December 14,264,247 12,159,847 Exercisable at 31 December 1 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these awards was GBP11.72.
2 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these awards was GBP3.66.
3 All shares included in this balance have been accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payments.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the free shares outstanding as at 31 December 2010 is 8.3 years 2009: 8.8 years.
The weighted average fair value of free shares granted during the year was GBP9.39 per share 2009 GBP2.86 per share.
2 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was GBP9.55.
3 The weighted average share price after applying the rights issue adjustment factor of 0.57 was GBP11.15.
4 All the share options included in this balance have been accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payments, except for 50,229 options 2009: 53,417 options issued in 2002.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2010 was 7.6 years 2009: 8.1 years.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was GBP5.55 2009 GBP1.53.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was GBP1.82 to GBP20.02 2009 GBP1.82 to GBP20.02.
| 194 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 35.
Employee benefits FRQWLQXHG The following table lists the inputs to the models used to measure the fair value of equity-settled awards granted: Date of Date of grant grant 2010 2009 Dividend yield % 1.4 Expected volatility % 69 62 Risk-free interest rate % 2.5 2.2 Earliest exercise date 18 Feb 13 12 Mar 12 Latest exercise date 18 Feb 20 11 Mar 19 Expected exercise date 3 Dec 13 25 Dec 12 Share price at date of grant GBP 10.86 3.26 Exercise price GBP 10.31 3.35 Free share fair value at date of grant GBP 9.39 2.86 Option fair value at date of grant GBP 5.25 1.43 The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historic volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome.
Both the free shares and the equity-settled options are equity-settled plans and the fair value is measured at the date of grant.
The fair value of the cash-settled options is measured at the date of grant and at each reporting date until the liability is settled, using binomial models, taking into account the terms and conditions of the award.
At 31 December 2010 the provision held for cash settled awards was US$70 million 2009 US$44 million refer to note 32.
Deferred bonus As detailed within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 119 to 129, the maximum bonus payable under the bonus plan for Executive Directors and the members of the Executive Committee is 300% of salary.
Bonuses are payable in three tranches as follows: the maximum bonus, which any one participant is eligible to receive in cash, will be limited to 100% of the individuals base salary: any additional bonus up to a further 100% of base salary will be deferred for a period of one year: and any remaining bonus will be deferred for a period of two years.
The deferred elements will take the form of awards of Xstrata shares conditional on the participant remaining in employment throughout the deferral period.
The number of shares awarded will be determined by reference to the market value of the shares at the date concurrent awards under the LTIP are made.
The deferred elements have been treated as an equity-settled share-based payment in accordance with IFRS 2.
During the bonus deferral period dividend equivalents accrue and are delivered at the end of the deferral period, subject to the deferral award vesting.
As dividend equivalents are receivable on the deferred amounts, the fair value of the deferral is technically equal to the value of the bonuses deferred.
The following deferred bonus awards have been made: 2010 2009 2008 Market value of deferred bonus award US$m 18 10 10 Number of shares purchased 777,678 521,098 2,191,681 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 195 Chief Executives Added Value Plan AVP The AVP is a long-term incentive and retention plan for the Chief Executive which rewards outperformance in creating additional long-term shareholder value over the value created by Xstrata plcs peer companies refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 122 to 123 and aligns interests with shareholders by means of share ownership by the Chief Executive.
Performance is assessed over periods of three years and five years from the grant date of each cycle and is based upon the growth in the Companys TSR over the relevant performance period relative to an index of global mining companies, which form the Xstrata TSR Index.
A description of the performance requirements and the vesting schedule of the plan are detailed within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 122 to 123.
The first cycle of the AVP began in 2005 and has occurred annually until 2009.
There was no 2010 AVP and no further awards will be granted.
For the 2009 plan cycle, the market capitalisation on 17 April 2009 was US$21.7 billion, the participation percentage was equal to 0.3% and the share price at the measurement date was US$8.73 post rights issue.
For the 2008 plan cycle, the market capitalisation on 26 March 2008 was US$76.4 billion, the participation percentage was equal to 0.5% and the share price at the measurement date was US$70.50.
For the 2007 plan cycle, the market capitalisation on 15 March 2007 was US$45.2 billion, the participation percentage was equal to 0.3% and the share price at the measurement date was US$46.77.
For the 2006 plan cycle, the market capitalisation on 10 March 2006 was US$18.6 billion, the participation percentage was equal to 0.3% and the share price at the measurement date was US$29.39.
For the 2005 plan cycle, the market capitalisation on 9 May 2005 was US$11.4 billion, the participation percentage was equal to 0.5% and the share price at the measurement date was US$18.00.
In 2009, 25% of the deferred interim award of the 2005 AVP cycle was cash-settled and in 2010, the remaining 25% of the deferred interim award of the 2005 AVP cycle was equity-settled as detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 122 to 123.
At 31 December 2010, the fair value of the outstanding deferred award was US$nil 2009 US$21 million.
The fair value of all awards, which are accounted for as cash-settled share-based payments to reflect the expected form of settlement, has been estimated in accordance with IFRS 2 using a Monte Carlo simulation model to incorporate the market-based features of the plan.
The following table presents the fair value of each cycle of the award at grant date and the value of the unvested portion of each cycle if conditions that existed at 31 December 2010 are those at the time of vesting.
Value of unvested award based Estimated Plan cycle on conditions at 31 December fair value US$m Grant date at grant date 2010 2009 2005 9 May 2005 7 21 2006 10 Mar 2006 7 2007 15 Mar 2007 19 2008 26 Mar 2008 120 2009 17 Apr 2009 135 87 61 This amount represents the value of the award if it had vested as at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009.
In accordance with IFRS 2 as it applies to cash-settled share-based payments, a provision was recognised based on the fair value of each cycle adjusted for the vesting period yet to lapse.
This model determined the fair value of each cycle at 31 December 2010 to estimate the final performance of the Group and its performance relative to its peers.
Any ultimate payments may vary significantly from the estimated fair values determined at 31 December 2010 as a result of differences between the estimated outcomes determined by the simulation model and the actual outcomes.
At 31 December 2010, the total provision held for the AVP was US$167 million 2009 US$180 million comprising US$nil for the 2005 plan 2009 US$19 million, US$nil for the 2008 plan 2009 US$8 million and US$167 million for the 2009 plan 2009 US$153 million.
There was no 2010 AVP award refer to note 32.
The decrease in the provision during the year reflects the comparative rate of performance of the Company in the 2010 year against the peer group, to which the design of the plan gives additional weighting when that group itself is rising, offset by the settlement of the 2005 final award.
The ultimate value of each cycle will reflect its intrinsic value at the date of vesting which depends on relative outperformance over the cycle as a whole.
| 196 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 35.
Employee benefits FRQWLQXHG The following table lists the inputs to the models used to measure the fair value of the AVP award at grant date: 2009 Xstrata share 1 indices Xstrata plc 2 Dividend yield % N A N A 3 Expected volatility to interim vesting % 76 53 3 Expected volatility to final vesting % 62 43 Risk-free interest rate to interim vesting % 2.4 2.4 Risk-free interest rate to final vesting % 2.6 2.6 Third anniversary of start of cycle 17 April 2012 17 April 2012 Fourth anniversary of start of cycle 17 April 2013 17 April 2013 Fifth anniversary of start of cycle 17 April 2014 17 April 2014 1 There are two Xstrata share indices used within the valuation model: one is a market capitalisation weighted TSR index comprising 16 global mining firms considered to be Xstratas key competitors for both financial and human capital, the other is a market capitalisation price index comprising the same global mining firm constituents.
2 When simulating the Xstrata price index, a dividend yield is included to account for the suppressing impact that a dividend payment has on the constituent share prices.
For the simulation of Xstratas TSR and the Index TSR, a dividend yield is not required as TSR comprises share price growth and dividend distributions which are assumed to be reinvested into the shares.
3 Volatility is calculated using daily historic share price data over the period up to the measurement date that is equal in length to the expected remaining life of the award.
Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans The net expense recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December: US$m 2010 2009 Defined benefit pension plans 45 68 Defined contribution pension plans 132 81 Post-retirement medical plans 38 29 215 178 Defined contribution pension plans The Group participates in a number of defined contribution pension plans and industry-wide schemes covering the majority of its employees.
The assets are held separately from those of the Group and are generally invested with insurance companies and regulated by local legislation.
Post-retirement medical plans The Group participates in a number of post-retirement medical benefits.
All material post-retirement medical benefit liabilities are in North America, with smaller exposures in South Africa.
Independent qualified actuaries assess the accumulated benefit obligation and annual cost of accrued benefits using the projected unit credit method.
The actuaries have updated the valuations to 31 December 2010.
com 197 Defined benefit pension plans The Group contributes to defined benefit pension plans for a number of its employees.
Independent professionally qualified actuaries assess the pension costs and funding of these plans using the projected unit method.
All significant pension assets and liabilities are in North America.
The following tables summarise the components of the net expense recognised in cost of sales in the income statement and the funded status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement medical plans.
The weighted average principal economic assumptions used to determine the actuarial values are as follows: PostPostRetirement Retirement Pension medical Pension medical plans plans plans plans 2010 2010 2009 2009 Rate of salary increases 3.3% 3.3% Rate of pension increases 2.2% 3.5% Expected rate of return on plan assets: Equities 8.1% 9.3% Bonds 5.0% 4.6% Total 6.1% 6.7% Discount rate 5.3% 5.5% 6.1% 6.4% Inflation rate 3.2% 5.5% 3.5% 5.5% Rate of medical cost increases 8.0% 8.0% A one percentage point change in the assumed rate of increase in healthcare costs would have the following impact: Increase Decrease Increase Decrease US$m 2010 2010 2009 2009 Effect on the current service cost and interest cost 5 4 43 Effect on the defined benefit obligation 71 57 57 32 The pension plan mortality rate used at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 was UP-94 for North American pension and postretirement medical plans.
These rates refer to published projected mortality tables by actuarial bodies in North America and take into account the assumed increases in the life expectancy and are calculated for both current and future pensioners.
There are no significant differences in these rates between schemes.
The average life expectancy in the pension plans was 84 years 2009: 83 years and in the medical plans was 82 years 2009: 82 years as at 31 December 2010.
The assets and liabilities of the schemes and the amounts recognised in the Group balance sheet at 31 December are as follows: PostPostretirement retirement Pension medical Pension medical plans plans plans plans US$m 2010 2010 2009 2009 Present value of benefit obligations 2,821 535 2,556 444 Assets at fair value 2,197 2,145 Net liability 624 535 411 444 Net liability as at 31 December represented by: Pension deficits provisions 625 535 412 444 Pension assets 1 1 Net liability 624 535 411 444 Historical adjustments are as follows: US$m 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Defined benefit obligation 2,821 2,556 1,994 2,721 2,604 Plan assets 2,197 2,145 1,677 2,495 2,393 Net deficit 624 411 317 226 211 Experience gain loss adjustments on plan liabilities 64 12 74 69 4 Experience gain loss adjustments on plan assets 81 131 480 126 96 | 198 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 35.
Employee benefits FRQWLQXHG The reconciliation of the net liability movement during the year in the net pension and post-retirement medical plan liability before allowance of deferred tax is as follows: PostPostretirement retirement Pension medical Pension medical plans plans plans plans US$m 2010 2010 2009 2009 Net liability as at 1 January 411 444 317 345 Total benefit expense 45 38 68 29 Actuarial gains losses 249 52 86 36 Employer contributions 108 25 109 22 Translation adjustments 27 26 49 56 Net liability as at 31 December 624 535 411 444 Additional contributions of US$83 million in 2011, US$82 million in 2012, US$86 million in 2013, US$81 million in 2014 and US$60 million in 2015 are being made in order to eliminate the deficiency in the North America plans.
The total contributions to the defined benefit pension plans in 2011 including these further contributions are US$139 million.
The components of benefit expense income recognised in the income statement during the year are as follows: PostPostretirement retirement Pension medical Pension medical plans plans plans plans US$m 2010 2010 2009 2009 Service cost 26 9 35 2 Interest cost 151 29 144 27 Expected return on plan assets net of expected expenses 132 111 45 38 68 29 The components of actuarial losses gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income during the year are as follows: PostPostretirement retirement Pension medical Pension medical plans plans plans plans US$m 2010 2010 2009 2009 Expected return on plan assets net of expected expenses 132 111 Actual return on plan assets 213 242 Actual return less expected return on plan assets 81 131 Actuarial gains on obligations 64 12 Uplift for minimum funding requirement 194 Change of assumptions 200 52 229 36 249 52 86 36 The cumulative amount of net actuarial losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income is US$521 million 2009 loss US$272 million.
com 199 The reconciliation of the present value of benefit obligations and fair value of plan asset movements during the year is as follows: PostPostretirement retirement Pension medical Pension medical plans plans plans plans US$m 2010 2010 2009 2009 Benefit obligation present value as at 1 January 2,556 444 1,994 345 Current service cost 26 9 35 2 Interest cost 151 29 144 27 Employee contributions 1 1 Actuarial gains 64 12 Actual benefit payments 182 25 160 22 Change of assumptions 200 52 229 36 Translation adjustments 133 26 325 56 Benefit obligation present value as at 31 December 2,821 535 2,556 444 Plan assets fair value as at 1 January 2,145 1,677 Actual return on plan assets 213 242 Company contributions 108 109 Employee contributions 1 1 Uplift for minimum funding requirement 194 Benefits paid from fund 182 160 Translation adjustments 106 276 Plan assets fair value as at 31 December 2,197 2,145 Net liability as at 31 December 624 535 411 444 Net liability as at 1 January 411 444 317 345 The defined benefit obligation present value included above for unfunded pension plans at 31 December 2010 was US$8 million 2009 US$7 million.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of the fair value of total plan assets are as follows: Pension Pension plans plans 2010 2009 Equities 40% 38% Bonds 57% 59% Other 3% 3% Included in equities is US$nil 2009 US$nil of Xstrata plc shares.
The overall expected rate of return on assets is determined based on the market value weighted expected return applicable to the underlying asset category.
| 200 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 36.
Related parties Country of % of ordinary shares Name incorporation Principal activities held & voting rights Principal subsidiaries Xstrata Coal: Abelshore Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% AZSA Holdings Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Coalex Holdings Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 78% Cook Resources Mining Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Cumnock No.
1 Colliery Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Enex Foydell Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Enex Liddell Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Enex Oakbridge Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Enex Togara Pty Limited Australia Coal project 100% Jonsha Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Oakbridge Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 78% Oceanic Coal Australia Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Ravensworth Operations Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Resource Pacific Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 77.8% Saxonvale Coal Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 78% Tahmoor Coal Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% The Wallerawang Collieries Limited Australia Coal operations 74.1% Ulan Coal Mines Limited Australia Coal operations 90% Ulan Power Company Pty Limited Australia Feasibility projects 100% United Collieries Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 95% Xstrata Coal Queensland Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Xstrata Mangoola Pty Limited Australia Coal project 100% Xstrata Rail NSW Pty Limited Australia Rail project 100% Xstrata Newpac Pty Limited Australia Investment company 100% Xstrata Coal Donkin Limited Canada Coal project 100% Tavistock Collieries Pty Limited South Africa Coal operations 100% Tironimus AG Switzerland Holding company 100% Xstrata Coal Marketing AG Switzerland Marketing & trading 100% Xstrata Alloys: Xstrata South Africa Pty Limited South Africa Coal, chrome, platinum & vanadium operations 100% Eland Platinum Holdings Limited South Africa Platinum operations 74% African Carbon Union Pty Limited South Africa Char operations 74% Char Technology Pty Limited South Africa Char operations 100% African Fine Carbon Pty Limited South Africa Char operations 100% African Carbon Manufacturers Pty Limited South Africa Char operations 100% African Carbon Producers Pty Limited South Africa Char operations 100% Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 201 Country of % of ordinary shares Name incorporation Principal activities held & voting rights Xstrata Copper: Ernest Henry Mining Pty Limited Australia Copper operations 100% Minera Alumbrera Limited Antigua Copper operations 50% Mount Isa Mines Limited Australia Copper, lead and zinc operations 100% Sagittarius Mines, Inc Philippines Holding company 62.5% Xstrata Tintaya S. A. Peru Copper operations 100% Compania Minera Xstrata Lomas Bayas Chile Copper operations 100% Xstrata Inversiones Chile Limitada Chile Holding company 100% Xstrata Copper Chile S. A. Chile Copper smelter 100% Xstrata Commodities Middle East DMCC UAE Marketing 100% Xstrata Recycling Inc. USA Copper recycling 100% Xstrata Iron Ore: Xstrata Projects Pty Limited Australia Exploration company 100% Ploutos Australia Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Sidero Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Sphere Minerals Limited Australia Exploration company 75.5% Xstrata Nickel: Xstrata Nickel International Limited Barbados Nickel feeds acquisition 100% Falconbridge Dominicana C por A Dom.
Republic Ferronickel operations 85% Xstrata Nickel Marketing S. A. Belgium Nickel marketing 100% Xstrata Nikkelverk Aktieselskap AS Norway Nickel refinery 100% Xstrata Nickel International S. A. Belgium Nickel procurement agent 100% Xstrata Nickel Australasia Pty Ltd Australia Nickel operations 100% Xstrata Brasil Exploracao Mineral Ltda Brazil Exploration 100% Koniambo Nickel SAS New Caledonia Ferronickel project 49% Xstrata Zinc: Asturiana fide Zinc SA Spain Zinc smelter 100% Britannia Refined Metals Limited UK Lead smelter 100% McArthur River Mining Pty Limited Australia Zinc operations 100% Xstrata Zinc GmbH Germany Zinc smelter 100% Xstrata Technology Xstrata Technology Pty Limited Australia Technology operations 100% MIM Process Technology South Africa Pty Limited South Africa Technology operations 100% Other: Xstrata Schweiz AG Switzerland Holding company 100% Xstrata Capital Corporation AVV ArubaFinance company 100% Xstrata Finance Dubai Limited UAEFinance company 100% Xstrata Holdings Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Queensland Limited Australia Holding company 100% Copper, nickel and zinc Xstrata Canada Corporation Canada operations 100% Xstrata Canada Financial Corporation Canada Finance company 100% Xstrata Finance Canada Limited Canada Finance company 100% Alberta Limited Canada Holding company 100% This investment is treated as a subsidiary as the Group is entitled to two of the four Board positions of Minera Alumbrera Limited, including the Chairman who is the manager of the copper operations.
The Chairman has the casting vote where any vote is split equally between the four board positions.
However, in a limited number of situations the vote must be unanimous, including transactions with related parties.
The Group has fide facto control of Koniambo Nickel SAS as a result of its industry expertise and the ability to control the operating and financing decisions of the joint venture.
Directly held by the parent company.
51% held by the parent company.
90% held by the parent company.
| 202 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 36.
Related parties FRQWLQXHG Principal place of operations country of Name incorporation Principal activities Effective interest held Principal joint ventures Xstrata Coal: Bulga Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 68.25% Cerrejn Joint Venture Colombia Coal operations 33.33% Cumnock Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 90% Donkin Joint Venture Canada Coal project 75% Goedgevonden Joint Venture South Africa Coal operations 73.99% Foybrook Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 67.5% Liddell Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 67.5% Macquarie Coal Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 80% Newlands, Collinsville, Abbot Point Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 55% Newpac Coal Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 70% Oaky Creek Coal Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 55% Rolleston Pentland Wandoan Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 75% Togara North Joint Venture Australia Coal project 61.6% Ulan Coal Mines Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 90% United Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 95% Xstrata Alloys: Merafe Pooling and Sharing Venture South Africa Chrome operations 79.5% Mototolo Joint Venture South Africa Platinum operations 37% Xstrata Copper: Antamina Joint Venture Peru Copper & zinc operations 33.75% Collahuasi Joint Venture Chile Copper operations 44% Xstrata Nickel: Kabanga Joint Venture Tanzania Nickel project 50% Xstrata Iron Ore: El Aouj Joint Venture Mauritania Iron ore project 50% Principal associates Xstrata Alloys: Lonmin plc UK Platinum operations 24.67% Xstrata Coal: ARM Coal Pty Limited South Africa Coal operations 49% Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Limited Australia Coal terminal 31% Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited Australia Coal terminal 33% Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Limited South Africa Coal terminal 20.2% Xstrata Zinc: Noranda Income Fund Canada Zinc refinery 25% The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of these in the above list.
All entities operate mainly in the country of incorporation and these interests are held indirectly by the parent company unless otherwise indicated.
com 203 During the year, the Group entered into the following transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties: Glencore Joint venture entities Associates US$m 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Sales 9,319 7,688 543 407 Purchases 745 537 617 541 5 Treatment and refining charges 301 344 206 165 Treatment and refining revenue 13 7 Agency and other charges 89 66 10 Interest and other revenue 4 3 Call option premium refer to notes 10 and 24 42 208 Earnings from other financial assets refer to notes 10 and 24 29 146 Amounts payable 78 80 120 531 21 20 Amounts receivable 842 622 47 72 Other financial assets refer to note 24 2,424 Includes share of joint ventures.
No provision for doubtful debts has been raised in respect of transactions with related parties.
Included in the transactions with Glencore International AG Glencore are US$980 million 2009 US$1,329 million of back-to-back sales whereby the title to the goods has passed to Glencore but they are then on-sold to customers at the same sales price that the Group received.
Amounts receivable and payable are included in Trade and other receivables refer to note 19 and in Trade and other payables refer to note 27, are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
Glencore International AG substantial shareholder As at 31 December 2010, Glencore owned 34.1% 2009: 34.4% of the issued share capital of the Company, representing 1,010,403,999 ordinary shares 2009: 1,010,403,999 ordinary shares.
Alloys Xstrata Alloys entered into a ferrochrome marketing agreement with Glencore on 21 April 1995, appointing Glencore as its exclusive worldwide marketing agent for the sale of Xstrata Alloys and Merafes entire production of ferrochrome other than ferrochrome sold into the USA, Canada and certain Asian countries.
The agreement continues for as long as Xstrata Alloys and Merafe produce ferrochrome.
Glencore is obliged to use its best endeavours to arrange sales at prevailing market rates subject to initial agreement and approval by Xstrata Alloys and Merafe prior to effecting the sale.
Glencore assists Xstrata Alloys in negotiating sales contracts with third parties.
Glencore is entitled to receive an agency fee of 3.5% on FOB sales revenues and an additional fee of 0.75% on FOB sales revenues for assuming the risk of non-payment by customers on this material.
Glencore assumes 60% of the risk of non-payment by customers in relation to ferrochrome sales.
If at any time Xstrata Alloys and Merafe notifies Glencore that it is able to find purchasers for its production at prices higher than those generally obtainable by Glencore, Xstrata Alloys may, unless Glencore is able to obtain similar prices, sell its products in the market.
Glencore is nevertheless entitled to an agency fee of 3.5% of FOB sales revenue in respect of such sales.
Glencore is also entitled to receive a US$50,000 monthly fee in connection with market analysis and certain administrative tasks it performs for Xstrata Alloys.
Interest is charged by Xstrata Alloys on single monthly settlements made by Glencore, and Glencore charges interest on any selling expenses incurred on behalf of Xstrata Alloys at LIBOR and a margin of 150 basis points.
Ferrochrome sold into the USA and Canada is distributed by Glencore Ltd and Glencore Canada Inc respectively, under two distribution agreements.
These agreements continue indefinitely, with both parties having the right to terminate the agreement at 12 months notice.
The percentage of distribution fees payable by the Group in respect of ferrochrome sold under the distribution agreement is substantially the same as the commission paid in respect of ferrochrome sold under the marketing agreement.
Mitsui & Co. Ltd is the appointed distributing agent for ferrochrome sales into China, Japan and South Korea up to a maximum of 105,000 tonnes per annum.
A change in distributing agent for sales into these countries must be undertaken with the consent of Glencore.
Xstrata Alloys entered into a chrome ore marketing agreement with Glencore in July 2010, appointing Glencore as its exclusive worldwide marketing agent for the sale of Xstrata Alloys and Merafes entire production of chrome ore.
The agreement is for a fixed term ending 20 May 2011.
Glencore is entitled to receive an agency fee of 2% on FOB sales revenues loading port value.
Glencore assumes 100% of the risk of non-payment by customers in relation to chrome ore sales.
Interest is charged by Xstrata Alloys on single monthly settlements by Glencore at LIBOR and a margin of 150 basis points.
| 204 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 36.
Related parties FRQWLQXHG In December 1997, the Group entered into a 20-year marketing agreement with Glencore in respect of Rhovans and Vantechs closed in 2004 entire production of vanadium other than vanadium sold into the USA and Canada.
Glencore is obliged to use its best endeavours to arrange sales of vanadium pentoxide and ferrovanadium to customers at prevailing market rates subject to initial agreement and approval by Xstrata Alloys prior to effecting the sale.
Xstrata Alloys is obliged to pay to Glencore an agency fee of 3.5% on FOB sales revenues and an additional fee of 1.5% on FOB sales revenues for assuming the risk of non-payment by customers on this material.
Glencore assumes 100% of the risk of non-payment by customers in relation to vanadium sales.
If at any time Xstrata Alloys notifies Glencore that it is able to find purchasers for its production at prices higher than those generally obtainable by Glencore, Xstrata Alloys may, unless Glencore is able to obtain similar prices, sell its products in the market.
Glencore is nevertheless entitled to the 3.5% agency fees described above in respect of such sales.
Vanadium pentoxide and ferrovanadium sold into the USA and Canada are distributed by Glencore Ltd and Glencore Canada Inc respectively, under two distribution agreements.
The distribution agreements have the same term as the marketing agreement and consequently, the percentage of distribution fees payable by the Group in respect of vanadium pentoxide and ferrovanadium is substantially the same as the commission paid in respect of vanadium pentoxide and ferrovanadium sold under the marketing agreement.
Coal In 2002, the Group entered into a 20-year market advisory agreement with Glencore with fee reviews at the end of every fifth year of the agreement.
Pursuant to this agreement, Glencore acts as the Groups market adviser with respect to its export production of coal other than for Xstrata Coals share of production from the Cerrejn thermal coal operation in Colombia.
The fee payable to Glencore is US$0.50 per attributable tonne of coal exported by the Group from Australia or South Africa.
In 2010, the Group entered into market standard forward commodity price derivatives for 1,070,000 tonnes 2009: 4,455,000 tonnes and bought market standard forward commodity price derivatives for 385,000 tonnes 2009: nil tonnes with Glencore as counterparty.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, 3,360,000 sold tonnes and 385,000 bought tonnes were delivered at an average FOB price of US$76.73 and US$86.54 per tonne respectively 2009: 3,180,000 tonnes were sold at an average FOB price of US$71.78 per tonne.
At 31 December 2010, 965,000 tonnes 2009: 3,255,000 tonnes were contracted with Glencore for delivery in 2011 and 2012.
These derivatives are on arms-length terms and conditions and are included within derivative financial assets and liabilities refer to notes 23, 30 and 37.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, nil tonnes were borrowed from Glencore 2009: 2,550 tonnes, and at 31 December 2010 nil tonnes were owed to Glencore 2009 nil tonnes on arms-length terms and conditions.
In April 2010, the Group entered into a five-year fuel supply agreement with Glencore to supply diesel fuels to coal mines and cattle stations in New South Wales and Queensland.
Under this supply agreement US$147 million 2009 US$111 million worth of fuel was delivered during the year ended 31 December 2010.
The supply agreement is on arms-length terms and prices change monthly according to the world market price per barrel.
In February 2010 Cerrejn entered into a five-year fuel supply agreement with Glencore to supply diesel fuels.
The Groups share of the fuel purchases for the year ended 31 December 2010 was US$65 million 2009 US$44 million.
The supply agreement is on arms-length terms and prices change for each shipment according to the world market price per barrel.
All coal purchases and sales with Glencore are on arms-length terms and conditions.
Refer to note 24 for details of the Groups transactions in relation to the Prodeco coal assets with Glencore.
com 205 Copper Xstrata Copper has entered into an evergreen service agreement with Glencore with a 12-month cancellation notice for the supply of advice, support and assistance with regard to its marketing and operational hedging activities.
Copper cathode sales agreements were entered into between Xstrata Copper Canada Xstrata Copper North Chile Xstrata Commodities Middle East and Glencore for the period 1 January to 31 December 2010.
All sales are based on either spot or benchmark terms in accordance with prevailing market conditions.
Xstrata Copper Minera Alumbrera Limited has entered into a five-year frame contract with Glencore on an evergreen basis.
The sales terms for the copper concentrate are negotiated annually on arms-length terms and conditions.
Minera Alumbrera Limited on occasions sells concentrate to Glencore at prevailing spot market prices.
A copper precipitate purchase agreement was entered into between Xstrata Copper Canada and Glencore for the period 1 January to 31 December 2010, at prevailing market terms.
Copper concentrate purchase agreements were entered into between Xstrata Copper North Chile and Glencore for a four-year frame contract commencing 1 January 2007.
All purchases are based on benchmark terms in accordance with prevailing market conditions.
Copper concentrate sales agreements were entered into between Xstrata Copper Tintaya and Glencore for the period 1 January to 31 December 2010.
A copper concentrate sales agreement was entered into between Xstrata Commodities Middle East and Glencore for a three-year period effective from 1 June 2008 and evergreen thereafter at benchmark terms.
Xstrata Commodities Middle East also sells concentrate to Glencore on a spot basis on occasions throughout the year at prevailing market terms.
Xstrata Copper North Queensland has entered into a sales agreement with Glencore for copper concentrate for a three-year period effective from 1 June 2008 and evergreen thereafter.
This agreement is based on annual benchmark terms.
Copper blister and anode sales agreements were entered into between Xstrata Commodities Middle East and Glencore between April and December 2010 at benchmark or spot terms.
A molybdenum concentrate spot sales contract was entered into between Minera Alumbrera Limited and Glencore in 2010 at market related terms.
A molybdenum concentrate contract was entered into between Xstrata Norte Exploraciones y Servicios Limitada and Minerales del Sur S. A. for 2010 off-take Collahuasi tonnes at market related terms.
All sales transactions with Glencore are on arms-length terms and conditions.
Nickel Xstrata Nickel has entered into long-term purchase agreements with Glencore for copper cobalt white alloy raw material feeds to the Sudbury smelter in Canada and Nikkelverk refinery in Norway.
Contracts include both a metal purchase and a metal return component for cobalt.
The terms of the contracts are to the end of 2011, continuing indefinitely thereafter unless terminated by either party with six months notice given not earlier than 1 July 2011.
Pricing terms are based on prevailing market rates.
Other short-term or one-time feed purchase agreements were entered into with Glencore, with pricing terms based on prevailing market rates.
During 2010, Xstrata Nickel purchased from Glencore 102 tonnes of nickel 2009: 287 tonnes, 109 tonnes of copper 2009: 563 tonnes, 15 tonnes of cobalt 2009: 250 tonnes and 66 kilograms of Platinum Group Metals 2009: nil kilograms.
In addition, during 2010, Xstrata Nickel returned to Glencore 64 tonnes of cobalt 2009: 297 tonnes.
In March 2007, Xstrata Nickel entered into sole distributorship agreements with Glencore, for its nickel, cobalt and ferronickel production.
These agreements continue until 31 December 2012 and are automatically renewed for successive three-year periods unless terminated by either party with not less than 12 months notice prior to the end of the original term or any renewal terms, or unless Xstrata Nickel permanently ceases production of these metals.
Xstrata Nickel, at its sole discretion, may cease, suspend or reduce production at any time.
Glencore is obliged to distribute the products with all due care and diligence and shall cultivate and maintain good relations with purchasers and potential purchasers in accordance with sound commercial principles and taking into account Xstrata Nickels business principles.
All sales terms and conditions are set on an arms-length basis.
For nickel and cobalt sales, the price basis is the month following the month of delivery.
For ferronickel sales, the price basis is the quotational period provided for in customer contracts.
Accordingly, provisionally priced nickel, cobalt and ferronickel revenues are subject to final price adjustments due to future price changes.
During 2010, Xstrata Nickel sold to Glencore 92,139 tonnes of nickel 2009: 88,457 tonnes, 3,104 tonnes of cobalt 2009: 3,066 tonnes and nil tonnes of ferronickel 2009: 236 tonnes.
In addition, Glencore prepays monthly to Xstrata Nickel in two equal instalments 100% of the value of the months planned production.
The prepayment balance as at 31 December 2010 amounted to US$36 million 2009 US$49 million.
| 206 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 36.
Related parties FRQWLQXHG Xstrata Nickel sells refined copper to Glencore on arms-length terms and conditions under spot arrangements, which are based on prevailing market rates.
During 2010, Xstrata Nickel sold to Glencore 3,698 tonnes of copper 2009: 1,547 tonnes.
Effective for the period 1 January to 31 December 2011, Glencore has agreed to purchase, on a monthly basis, all copper production not otherwise sold by Xstrata Nickel under long-term contracts.
Zinc On 1 January 2007, Xstrata Zinc renewed a service agreement for a period of three years which shall continue in effect thereafter unless terminated by any of the parties giving the other prior written notice of no less than 12 calendar months with Glencore the Xstrata Zinc Service Agreement, under the terms of which Glencore provides advice and assistance with respect to pricing and structural issues regarding hedging and the optimisation of internal flows of raw materials.
The fees to be paid by Asturiana under the Xstrata Zinc Service Agreement are US$2 million per annum.
In 2010, Xstrata Zinc agreed to supply Glencore with 255,000 tonnes 2009: 315,000 tonnes of SHG zinc slabs and CGG ingots from San Juan fide Nieva and Nordenham smelters based on market prices plus the respective FOB CPT market premium.
In 2010, Xstrata Zinc Canada has made agreements to supply Glencore with approximately 14,600 tonnes 2009: 63,700 tonnes of SHG zinc slabs and jumbos based on market prices plus the respective delivery duty paid DDP premium.
In 2010, Britannia Refined Metals agreed to supply Glencore with between 12,000 and 18,000 tonnes of lead metal ingots.
The agreement is evergreen in nature.
In addition, Britannia Refined Metals agreed to supply Glencore with a separate additional 7,500 tonnes of lead metal ingots.
Both agreements are based on market prices plus the respective ex-works market premium.
In 2010, Xstrata Zinc Canada made agreements to supply Glencore with approximately 18,300 tonnes 2009: 32,000 tonnes of lead metal ingots and jumbos.
All agreements are based on market prices plus the respective DDP premium.
In 2010, Mount Isa Mine had an evergreen contract to supply 80,000 tonnes to Glencore 2009: 80,000 tonnes.
In 2010, Xstrata Zinc sold 300,000 tonnes of zinc concentrate to Glencore under an evergreen swap contract.
In return, Xstrata Zinc purchased from Glencore 300,000 tonnes of various zinc concentrate qualities delivered to Xstrata Zinc smelters 2009: 300,000 tonnes.
In addition, Xstrata Zinc sold 50,000 tonnes to Glencore under a time swap agreement.
In 2010, Xstrata Zinc sold to Glencore 158,000 tonnes of zinc concentrate under various spot sales contracts from Mount Isa Mine, Antamina, McArthur River and other zinc concentrate qualities.
In 2010, Xstrata Zinc had an agreement to supply Glencore 247,000 tonnes of McArthur River bulk concentrate on an evergreen basis 2009: 245,000 tonnes.
Further to the aforementioned agreement, an additional 65,000 tonnes of McArthur River Mine and Brunswick Mine bulk concentrate were sold under annual contracts.
During 2010, Xstrata Zinc Canada purchased 25,000 tonnes of lead concentrates from Glencore for delivery to the Belledune lead smelter under various spot contracts.
All evergreen and annual zinc concentrate and bulk concentrate contracts are based on recognised annual industry benchmark treatment charges and related terms for price participation and silver payables.
Spot contracts are negotiated at prevailing market terms.
Technology TM TM In 2006, Xstrata Technology was contracted to install a copper ISASMELT furnace, a lead ISASMELT furnace and an IsaProcess copper refinery at Kazzinc, a Glencore subsidiary, for US$99 million.
The project commenced in May 2006 and will be commissioned late 2011.
This transaction with Kazzinc is on arms-length terms and conditions.
Associates Platinum The Group acquired 24.9% of Lonmin PLC shares on 6 October 2008 and equity accounts this investment as an associate.
During 2009, a net impairment of US$241 million was taken on this investment directly to the income statement.
During 2010, the Group participated in a rights issue for US$58 million 2009 US$112 million refer to note 20.
com 207 Coal Xstrata Coal has a number of investments in export coal terminals, allowing it to export coal into overseas markets.
Xstrata Coal South Africa holds a 20.2% 2009: 20.9% interest in Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Ltd RBCT, a company that operates the coal terminal in Richards Bay, South Africa.
Xstrata Coal South Africa reimburses RBCT for its share of operating and capital expenditure.
Xstrata Coal Australia has a 33% 2009: 33% interest in Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited and a 31% 2009: 31% interest in Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Limited.
Xstrata Coal Australia reimburses these coal terminals for its share of coal loading and handling charges.
Zinc The Group has a 25% economic and voting interest in the Noranda Income Fund NIF, which owns a zinc refinery in , Quebec.
The Groups interest in the NIF are held as ordinary units of the partnership, which are subordinate to the priority units in respect of cash distributions in any month until 3 May 2017.
In addition, the Group has entered into a supply and processing agreement that continues until 2 May 2017, and is obligated to sell to the NIF up to 550,000 tonnes of zinc concentrate per year.
The NIF pays the Group a concentrate price, based on the price of zinc metal on the London Metal Exchange, for the payable zinc metal contained in the concentrate less a processing fee of US$0.37333 per pound 2009 US$0.33311 per pound of such payable zinc metal at 31 December 2010.
Joint venture entities Coal Xstrata Coal has a one-third interest in the Cerrejn thermal coal operation in Colombia.
All purchase terms and conditions are set on an arms-length basis.
Copper Xstrata Copper has a 44% interest in the Collahuasi joint venture in Chile.
The Collahuasi joint venture has fixed-term contracts for the sale of copper concentrate to Xstrata Copper for 120,000 tonnes per year expiring in 2014.
The treatment and refining charges are based on benchmark terms in accordance with the prevailing market.
In addition, Xstrata Copper, via its 44% equity share in Collahuasi, purchases 44% of the uncommitted copper concentrates production in each calendar year.
These tonnes are purchased from Collahuasi in line with prevailing benchmark terms.
Xstrata Copper has a 33.75% interest in the Antamina joint venture in Peru.
The Antamina joint venture has fixed-term contracts for the sale of copper concentrate to Xstrata Copper for 170,000 tonnes per year expiring in 2013.
In addition, Xstrata Copper, via its 33.75% equity share in Antamina, purchases 37.5% of the uncommitted copper concentrates production in each calendar year.
These tonnes are purchased from Antamina in line with prevailing benchmark terms.
Iron Ore Xstrata Iron Ore has a 50% interest in El Aouj Mining Company in Mauritania.
All other purchases between the joint venture entities and the Group are set on an arms-length basis based on either spot or benchmark terms in accordance with prevailing market conditions.
Remuneration of key management personnel of the Group US$m 2010 2009 Wages and salaries 21 31 Pension and other post-retirement benefit costs 7 6 Share-based compensation plans 86 249 114 286 Includes amounts paid to Directors disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 127 to 129.
Amounts are based on the income statement expense credit for the year calculated in accordance with IFRS 2.
Directors loans An interest-free short-term loan of US$2 million 2009 US$3 million was provided to the Chief Executive in accordance with the Groups policy to cover periods where employees of the Group are exposed to overlapping periods of double taxation due to the requirement of working in multiple jurisdictions.
The terms of the loan agreement require repayment of the loan amount on realisation of the foreign taxation credit claimed.
| 208 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 37.
Financial instruments Principles of risk management The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and commodity price risk.
These risks arise from exposures that occur in the normal course of business and are managed by the Treasury Committee, which operates as a sub-committee of the Executive Committee.
The responsibilities of the Treasury Committee include the recommendation of policies to manage financial instrument risks.
These recommendations are reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors and implemented by the Groups Treasury Department.
The overall objective of the Treasury Committee is to effectively manage credit risk, liquidity risk and other market risks in accordance with the Groups strategy.
Other responsibilities of the Treasury Committee include management of the Groups cash resources and debt funding programmes, approval of counter-parties and relevant transaction limits and the monitoring of all significant treasury activities undertaken by the Group.
The Group uses both conventional financial instruments and derivative financial instruments to manage these risks.
The Groups Treasury Department prepares monthly treasury reports which monitor all significant treasury activities undertaken by Group companies.
The report also benchmarks significant treasury activities and monitors key banking loan covenants to ensure continued compliance.
The Treasury Committee and Executive Committee review these reports to monitor the financial instrument risks of the Group and to ensure compliance with established Group policies and procedures.
The Groups significant financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise bank loans and overdrafts, convertible borrowings, capital market notes, finance leases, hire purchase contracts, cash and short-term deposits.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to finance the Groups acquisitions and ongoing operations.
The Group has various other financial assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
Derivative transactions are entered into solely to mitigate risks and hedge accounting under IAS 39 is only applied when certain criteria have been met.
Market fluctuations in derivative financial instruments designated as hedges are used to offset the fluctuations in the underlying exposure.
The Group does not hold derivatives for trading or speculative purposes.
The Groups accounting policies in relation to derivatives are set out in note 6. Credit risk Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Groups ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets.
Investments in cash, short-term deposits, derivative instruments and similar assets are with approved counter-party banks and other financial institutions.
Counter-parties are assessed prior to, during, and after the conclusion of transactions to ensure exposure to credit risk is limited to an acceptable level.
The Groups major exposure to credit risk is in respect of trade receivables.
Given the geographical industry spread of the Groups ultimate customers and the solvency of major trade debtors, credit risk is believed to be limited.
Past the due date but not impaired Neither impaired nor Between Between Between past the Less than 30 and 91 and 181 and More than US$m due date 30 days 90 days 180 days 365 days 1 year Total Trade debtors: 2010 3,758 34 68 14 1 4 3,879 2009 2,607144494214 2,856 The credit quality of the Groups significant customers is monitored on an ongoing basis by the Credit Department.
Receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are considered of high credit quality.
There were no material impairments of trade debtors as at 31 December 2010 or 2009.
The solvency of the debtor and their ability to repay the receivables were considered in assessing the impairment of such assets.
No collateral is held in respect of impaired assets or assets that are past due but not impaired.
Details of guarantees material to the Group are outlined in note 34.
com 209 Where concentrations of credit risk exist, management closely monitors the receivable and ensures appropriate controls are in place to ensure recovery.
A portion of the Groups revenues is generated from sales to Glencore, a related party.
These sales are governed by various sales, marketing and distribution agreements as outlined in note 36.
In general, Glencore acts as a sales and marketing agent, on-selling purchases from the Group to a wide variety of purchasers.
As these agreements have been in place for a number of years and the Group has not been exposed to significant unrecoverable amounts, the Group does not believe these arrangements expose it to unacceptable credit risks.
Credit risk is minimal and not concentrated for other financial assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is limited to the total carrying value of financial assets on the balance sheet as at the reporting date, being an amount of US$8,020 million 2009 US$9,020 million.
The Group does not have netting agreements with any debtors.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group may not be able to settle or meet its obligations on time or at a reasonable price.
The Groups Treasury Department is responsible for management of liquidity risk, including funding, settlements, related processes and policies.
The Group manages its liquidity risk on a consolidated basis utilising various sources of finance to maintain flexibility while ensuring access to cost-effective funds when required.
The operational, tax, capital and regulatory requirements and obligations of the Group are considered in the management of liquidity risk.
In addition, management utilises both shortand long-term cash flow forecasts and other consolidated financial information to manage liquidity risk.
The Groups Treasury Department monitors the Groups long-term credit ratings from major ratings agencies including Standard & Poors and Moodys when assessing the ongoing credit-worthiness of the Group.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had long-term credit ratings of BBB positive outlook from Standard & Poors 2009 BBB negative outlook and Baa2 stable outlook from Moodys 2009 Baa2 negative outlook and A low from DBRS 2009 A low.
The ratings agencies consider a number of qualitative measurements when assessing the credit-worthiness of a company.
These include an assessment of the quality of assets and management, attitudes to risk, industry type and the performance of a company in relation to its peers.
They also examine a number of financial ratios such as leverage, debt to operating cash flow, interest coverage, total liabilities to total assets and return on invested capital.
The Groups Treasury Department continuously monitors the Groups performance relative to these ratios as a guide to the ongoing credit-worthiness of the Group.
The Group has various borrowing facilities available to it.
This ensures flexibility to minimise liquidity risk and ensures the ongoing solvency of the Group.
The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December 2010 in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date are as follows: Available undrawn borrowing facilities and maturity: US$m 2010 2009 Expiring in: Less than 1 year 52 55 Between 1 and 2 years 4,680 Between 2 and 3 years 2,000 6,299 Between 4 and 5 years 2,000 8,732 6,354 The following tables show the Groups contractually agreed undiscounted forecast cash flows from financial assets and liabilities, including derivatives.
Due Due Due Due Due within between between between between Due after US$m 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2010: Non-derivative financial assets: Interest bearing cash and cash equivalents 1,680 1,680 Other financial assets 4,505 117 912 5,534 Derivative financial assets: Derivatives contracts 236 73 143 354 806 Non-derivative financial liabilities: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2,318 1,526 13 13 1,576 4,026 9,472 Interest payments on loans and borrowings 570 390 350 350 307 1,611 3,578 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 4,802 744 5,546 Derivative financial liabilities: Derivatives contracts 383 12 136 218 749 | 210 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 37.
Financial instruments FRQWLQXHG Due Due Due Due Due within between between between between Due after US$m 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2009: Non-derivative financial assets: Interest bearing cash and cash equivalents 1,131 1,131 Other financial assets 5,776 38 755 6,569 Derivative financial assets: Derivatives contracts 159 137 131 430 857 Non-derivative financial liabilities: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 206 2,375 5,441 21 17 5,398 13,458 Convertible borrowings 335 335 Interest payments on loans and borrowings 757 707 546 351 337 1,934 4,632 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 3,697 570 4,267 Derivative financial liabilities: Derivatives contracts 52 235 54 216 557 All instruments held at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 and for which payments were already contractually agreed are included.
Amounts in foreign currency are each translated at the closing rate at the reporting date.
The variable interest payments arising from the financial instruments were calculated using interest rates as at the reporting date.
Financial liabilities that can be repaid at any time are always assigned to the earliest possible time period.
Future forecast transactions or transactions subsequent to year-end are not included.
Market risk analysis IFRS 7 requires sensitivity analyses that show the effects of hypothetical changes of relevant market risk variables on the Groups profit and shareholders equity.
The periodic effects are determined by relating the hypothetical changes in the risk variables to the balance of financial instruments at the reporting date.
The Groups primary market exposures are to interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and commodity price risk.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk primarily as a result of exposures to movements in the LIBOR.
It is the Groups preference to borrow and invest at floating rates of interest, notwithstanding that some borrowings are at fixed rates.
In addition, a limited amount of fixed rate hedging may be undertaken during periods where the Groups exposure to movements in short-term interest rates is more significant.
In keeping with the Groups preference to borrow at floating rates of interest, the following interest rate swap contracts were outstanding at 31 December 2010 and 2009: Principal Average Fair Principal Average Fair amount rate % value amount rate % value US$m 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 At fair value: Interest rate swap from US$ fixed rates: Less than 1 year 2,255 1.26 78 Maturing between 1 and 2 years 925 1.11 73 2,255 2.01 137 Maturing between 2 and 3 years 925 1.75 90 Maturing between 4 and 5 years 1,439 1.95 143 Maturing greater than 5 years 2,660 1.65 346 4,099 2.42 380 Interest rate swap to US$ fixed rates: Maturing between 1 and 2 years 100 4.54 6 Maturing between 2 and 3 years 100 4.54 7 7,379 1.56 634 7,379 2.24 600 Relates to the Unsecured notes and Senior debentures refer to note 28.
com 211 The interest rate risk profile of the Group as at 31 December 2010 are as follows: Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due within between between between between more than US$m 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years 2010 Fixed rate by balance sheet category: Cash and cash equivalents 794 794 Capital market notes 2,162 1,292 1,528 3,730 8,712 Non-controlling interest loans 81 162 243 Finance leases hire purchase contracts 71 9 5 5 4 19 113 Other loans 5 5 1,439 1,382 5 5 1,532 3,916 8,279 Fixed rate by currency: AUD 7 1 1 1 161 171 CAD 2 3 3 3 3 9 23 CLP 21 21 EUR 1,040 722 874 774 3,410 GBP 10 842 832 US$ 421 655 1 1 655 2,119 3,852 ZAR 1 11 12 1,439 1,382 5 5 1,532 3,916 8,279 Floating rate by balance sheet category: Cash and cash equivalents 886 886 Capital market notes 30 30 Bank loans other unsecured 40 139 34 213 Bank overdrafts 9 9 807 139 34 634 Floating rate by currency: AUD 235 235 ARS 12 12 CAD 8 8 CLP 22 22 EUR 20 20 GBP 1 1 NOK 3 3 US$ 453 139 34 280 ZAR 46 46 Other 7 7 807 139 34 634 These borrowings are subject to interest rate swaps.
| 212 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 37.
Financial instruments FRQWLQXHG The interest rate risk profile of the Group as at 31 December 2009 are as follows: Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due within between between between between more than US$m 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years 2009 Fixed rate by balance sheet category: Cash and cash equivalents 262 262 Capital market notes 14 2,293 1,360 5,271 8,938 Non-controlling interest loans 5 81 100 186 Convertible borrowings 335 335 Finance leases hire purchase contracts 28 29 2 2 2 27 90 Other loans 10 10 215 2,322 1,443 2 2 5,743 9,297 Fixed rate by currency: AUD 6 27 105 138 CAD 1 1 1 1 16 20 CLP 12 12 EUR 1,133 782 1,729 3,644 GBP 10 845 835 US$ 200 1,161 660 1 1 3,038 4,661 ZAR 1 10 11 215 2,322 1,443 2 2 5,743 9,297 Floating rate by balance sheet category: Cash and cash equivalents 869 869 Capital market notes 82 82 Syndicated bank loans unsecured 3,840 3,840 Bank loans other unsecured 47 35 139 221 Bank overdrafts 11 11 729 35 3,979 3,285 Floating rate by currency: AUD 173 173 ARS 16 16 CAD 6 6 CLP 17 17 EUR 21 21 GBP 1 1 NOK 2 2 US$ 424 34 3,979 3,589 ZAR 65 1 64 Other 4 4 729 35 3,979 3,285 These borrowings are subject to interest rate swaps.
The interest charged on floating rate financial liabilities is based on the relevant national inter-bank rates and re-priced at least annually.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until maturity of the instrument.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest-bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
com 213 IFRS 7 requires interest rate sensitivity analysis that shows the effects of changes in market interest rates on the income statement and, if appropriate, shareholders equity.
The interest rate sensitivity analysis is based on the following assumptions: for non-derivative financial instruments with fixed interest rate terms, a change in market interest rates only affects income if these are measured at their fair value.
Consequently, all non-derivative financial instruments with fixed interest rate terms that are carried at amortised cost are excluded from this analysis with the exception of those subject to a fixed to floating rate swap : items subject to an effective fixed to floating interest rate swap hedge are assumed to be floating instruments for the purpose of this analysis: for floating rate instruments, income statement impacts assume adjustments to interest income and expense for a 12-month period: the Group does not have significant cash flow hedges related to interest rate risk.
As such, movements that would occur in equity as a result of a hypothetical change in interest rates at reporting date have been excluded from this analysis: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges are assumed to be fully effective with no impact on the income statement or equity: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments not in hedging relationships are assumed to impact the income statement: the Group does not have material exposure to interest rate risk from available-for-sale financial instruments.
As such, these financial instruments have been excluded from this analysis: the balance of interest-bearing financial instruments at reporting date is representative of the balance for the year as a whole and hypothetical interest rate movements are deemed to apply for the entire reporting period: and the impact of interest rate movements on the carrying value of pension obligations has been excluded.
If the market interest rates had been 100 basis points higher lower at 31 December 2010 income would have been US$69 million 2009 US$106 million higher lower.
There would be no material effect on equity reserves other than those relating directly to movements in the income statement.
Foreign currency risk Owing to the Groups significant operations in Australia, North America, South America, South Africa and Europe, the balance sheet and results can be affected significantly by movements in exchange rates.
The long-term relationship between commodity prices and the currencies of most of the countries where the Group operates provides a degree of natural protection.
However, in the short term it can be quite volatile.
The presentation currency of the Group is the US$.
Foreign currency hedges Group subsidiaries located in Australia and Canada have entered into AUD US$ and CAD US$ exchange contracts to hedge a portion of their US$ denominated revenue and third-party loans.
The Group also enters into forward contracts to hedge specific one-off foreign currency transactions.
The open foreign currency exchange contracts as at 31 December 2010 are as follows: | 214 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 37.
The timing of hedged cash flows is expected to coincide with the maturities of the hedging instruments to which they relate.
An Australian subsidiary has designated its US$ denominated capital market notes as a fair value hedge of an investment in a US$ denominated South American operation refer to note 28.
Classified as other derivatives: Average Average Contract forward Contract forward amount rate Fair value amount rate Fair value US$m 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 Forward contracts sell CAD buy US$: Maturing in less than 1 year 320 1.5013 163 Maturing between 1 and 2 years 300 1.5350 135 320 1.5013 163 300 1.5350 135 Forward contracts sell US$ buy CAD: Maturing in less than 1 year 1,364 1.0196 32 1,172 1.0585 14 1,364 1.0196 32 1,172 1.0585 14 Forward contracts sell US$ buy AUD: Maturing in less than 1 year 10 0.7816 1 10 0.7816 1 For the purpose of IFRS 7 sensitivity analysis, currency risks arise because financial instruments are denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency of the subsidiary or joint venture.
The movements shown below largely result from trade payables and receivables that are not denominated in the local entitys functional currency.
Trade payables and receivables generally arise as a result of the operations of the Group in the ordinary course of business.
com 215 The currency sensitivity analysis is based on the following assumptions: differences resulting from the translation of financial statements of subsidiaries or joint ventures into the Groups presentation currency, US$, are not taken into consideration: the major currency exposures for the Group relate to the US$ and local currencies of subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Foreign currency exposures between two currencies where one is not the US$ are deemed insignificant to the Group and have therefore been excluded from the sensitivity analysis: derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are assumed to be fully effective hedges and therefore any movements in carrying value are captured within equity and have no impact on the income statement analysis: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges are assumed to be fully effective with no impact on the income statement or equity: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments not in hedging relationships are assumed to impact the income statement: and the impact of foreign currency movements on the carrying value of pension obligations has been excluded.
In accordance with IFRS 7, the impact of foreign currencies has been determined based on the balances of financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2010.
This sensitivity does not represent the income statement impact that would be expected from a movement in foreign currency exchange rates over the course of a period of time.
If the US$ had gained lost 5% against all currencies significant to the Group, the impact would have been: Effect Effect on net Effect on net Effect Closing earnings on equity Closing earnings on equity exchange of a 5% of a 5% exchange of a 5% of a 5% rate change change rate change change Local currency to the US$ 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 AUD:US$ 1.0233 11 5 0.8974 16 6 US$:CAD 0.9983 7 1.0533 3 EUR:US$ 1.3387 4 1.4327 6 GBP:US$ 1.5613 1 1.6173 1 US$:PEN 2.8063 1 2.8870 US$:ZAR 6.6276 20 7.3890 7 4 Total 2 5 13 10 Commodity price risk The Group is exposed to fluctuations in commodity prices, with the commodity mix spread between those that are priced by reference to prevailing market prices on terminal markets and those that are set on a contract basis with customers, generally on an annual basis.
Commodity price risks arise in all major commodities that the Group produces.
Commodity price risk is managed by maintaining a diversified portfolio of commodities and typically does not involve large-scale strategic hedging or price management initiatives.
Due to the volatile nature of commodity prices and the historical relationship between prices and the currencies of most of the countries where the Group operates, hedging may be entered into only in limited circumstances and subject to strict limits laid down by the Board of Directors.
| 216 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 37.
Financial instruments FRQWLQXHG Commodity hedging The Australian and South African operations have entered into coal forwards to hedge prices of future sales of coal.
The open forwards and collars commodity contracts as at 31 December 2010 are as follows: Classified as cash flow hedges: Average Fair value Average Fair value Tonnes price US$ US$m Tonnes price US$ US$m 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 Coal forwards US$ denominated contracts: FOB Maturing in less than 1 year 1,320,000 97.32 32 5,640,000 75.92 36 1,320,000 97.32 32 5,640,000 75.92 36 Coal forwards US$ denominated contracts: CIF Maturing in less than 1 year 935,000 104.70 22 315,000 71.80 6 935,000 104.70 22 315,000 71.80 6 Copper forwards US$ denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 14,950 6,674 10 14,950 6,674 10 The maturities of these hedges reflect the expected timing of cash flows related to these instruments.
The IFRS 7 sensitivity analysis below has been prepared using the following assumptions: this analysis only takes into account commodities for which the Group has significant exposure: fixed-price sale and purchases contracts will not fluctuate with movements in commodity prices and are therefore excluded from this analysis: derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are assumed to be fully effective hedges and therefore any movements in carrying value are captured within equity and have no impact on the income statement analysis: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges are assumed to be fully effective with no impact on the income statement or equity: and changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments not in hedging relationships are assumed to impact the income statement.
In accordance with IFRS 7, the impact of commodity prices has been determined based on the balances of financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2010.
This sensitivity does not represent the income statement impact that would be expected from a movement in commodity prices over the course of a period of time.
If prices for all commodities for which the Group has significant exposure had been 10% higher lower at 31 December 2010, income would have been US$173 million higher lower 2009 US$128 million higher lower and equity reserves would have been US$3 million lower higher 2009 US$79 million lower higher as a result of changes to reserves for commodity cash flow hedges.
There would be no other material changes in reserves of the Group as at 31 December 2010 or 2009 other than those relating directly to income statement movements.
com 217 Fair values Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying value and fair values of the Groups financial instruments that are not carried at fair value in the financial statements at 31 December: Carrying Carrying value Fair value value Fair value US$m 2010 2010 2009 2009 Financial liabilities: Capital market notes 8,712 8,714 8,939 8,941 Convertible borrowings 335 332 Non-controlling interest loans 243 248 186 191 Finance leases 251 252 181 181 Other loans 11 12 11 12 Market rates at 31 December 2010 have been used to determine the fair value of fixed interest loans.
The fair value of the liability portion of the convertible bonds is estimated using an equivalent market interest rate of a similar liability that does not have a conversion option as at the origination of the bond refer to note 28.
The following table shows the carrying amounts as at 31 December for each category of financial assets and liabilities as required by IFRS 7: US$m 2010 2009 Financial assets: Cash and cash equivalents 1,722 1,177 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit and loss 91 540 Loans and receivables 5,054 6,082 Available-for-sale financial assets 347 364 Derivative financial assets 806 857 Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 14,782 17,905 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss 236 155 Derivative financial liabilities 749 557 The following table shows the gains losses for each category of financial assets and liabilities as required by IFRS 7: US$m 2010 2009 Financial assets: Available-for-sale financial assets gains recognised in equity 118 209 Available-for-sale financial assets gains losses recognised in the income statement 73 1 Derivative financial instruments gains recognised in equity 117 456 Derivative financial instruments gains recognised in the income statement 117 269 Interest revenues and expenses are not included in the calculation of the gains losses of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group uses various valuation techniques in determining the fair value of financial assets and liabilities.
The following fair value hierarchy is used to categorise and disclose the Groups financial assets and liabilities held at fair value for which a valuation technique is used: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: and Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
| 218 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements FRQWLQXHG 37.
Financial instruments FRQWLQXHG The table below presents financial assets measured at fair value: US$m 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Foreign currency cash flow hedges 126 126 Fair value interest rate hedges 606 606 Other interest rate derivatives 42 42 Other foreign currency derivatives 32 32 Shares listed 160 160 Shares unlisted 5 5 Rehabilitation trust fund 91 91 Loans to joint venture partners 375 375 Other financial assets 48 48 US$m 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Foreign currency cash flow hedges 228 228 Fair value interest rate hedges 566 566 Other interest rate derivatives 48 48 Other foreign currency derivatives 15 15 Shares listed 216 216 Shares unlisted 4 4 Rehabilitation trust fund 77 77 Loans to joint venture partners 234 234 Other financial assets 37 37 The table below presents financial liabilities measured at fair value: US$m 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Commodity cash flow hedges 50 50 Foreign currency cash flow hedges 522 522 Other interest rate derivatives 14 14 Other foreign currency derivatives 163 163 Loans from joint venture partners 236 236 US$m 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Commodity cash flow hedges 52 52 Foreign currency cash flow hedges 356 356 Other interest rate derivatives 14 14 Other foreign currency derivatives 135 135 Loans from joint venture partners 155 155
