58 Directors report continued During the year ended 31 March 2010, options were exercised pursuant to the Companys share option schemes, resulting in the allotment of 112,642 new ordinary shares.
No new ordinary shares have been allotted under these schemes since the end of the financial year to the date of this report.
0.16% of the issued share capital is currently held within employee share trusts for use in satisfying employee share options or share awards.
There are no securities in issue which carry special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The VT Acquisition: On 23 March 2010, the boards of the Company and VT Group plc VT announced the recommended acquisition of the entire issued and to be issued share capital of VT the VT Acquisition.
The terms of the VT Acquisition will entitle VTs shareholders to acquire in the aggregate up to approximately 130 million ordinary shares of 60p each in the capital of the Company, which entitlement will be satisfied by the issue of new fully paid up shares to be listed on the London Stock Exchange that will on issue rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of 60p each in the capital of the Company, except that no final or second interim dividend for the year to 31 March 2010 will be paid on them.
Appointment and powers of Directors A Director is appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of ordinary shareholders.
The Directors acting as a Board also have the power to appoint a Director, but any person so appointed must be put up for reappointment by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following his or her appointment by the Board.
Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory law and to any directions as may be given by the Company in general meeting by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the Company that are not required to be exercised by the Company in general meeting.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
They are available for inspection online at www.
co. uk and can also be seen at the Companys registered office.
Directors duty to avoid conflicts of interest The Company has adopted a formal procedure for the disclosure, review, authorisation and management of Directors conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The procedure requires Directors formally to notify the Board via the Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any actual or potential conflict of interest with their duties to the Company or of any material change in existing actual or potential conflicts that may have been authorised by the Board.
Notified actual or potential conflicts will be reviewed by the Board as soon as possible.
The Board will consider whether a conflict or potential conflict does, in fact, exist and, if so, whether it is in the interest of the Company that it be authorised and, if so, on what terms.
In making their judgement on this, the other Directors must have regard to their general duties to the Company.
A register is maintained for the Board of all such disclosures and the terms of any such authorisation.
Authorisations may be revoked, or the terms on which they were given varied, at any time.
Cleared conflicts will in any event be reviewed annually by the Board.
In the event of any actual conflict arising in respect of any matter, mitigating action would also be considered for example, non-attendance of the Director concerned at all or part of Board meetings and non-circulation to him of relevant papers.
Auditors  LLP is willing to continue in office as independent auditor of the Company, and a resolution to reappoint it will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Disclosure of relevant audit information So far as the Directors who are in office at the time of the approval of this Report are aware, there is no relevant audit information namely, information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with the preparation of their auditors report of which the auditors are unaware.
Each such Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Directors responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration report and the Groups and the Companys financial statements in accordance with applicable law.
