57 Contracts with employees or Directors A description of those agreements with Directors that contain provisions relating to payments in the event of a termination of employment following a change of control of the Company is set out on page 81.
One senior employee, who is not a Director of the Company, has an agreement providing for payment of 12 months salary plus 40% in lieu of all benefits in the event of a dismissal including constructive dismissal by the Company within 12 months following a change of control.
Matters more fully dealt with in other sections of the Annual Report and Accounts Some other matters that have to be covered in a Directors report are dealt with in other sections of this Annual Report and Accounts and are to be treated as incorporated into this Report, namely: Directors share interests: These are to be found in the table on page 75.
Employees: The Companys approach to employee matters including employee communication, public interest disclosure, ethical standards and its policy on disabled employees and employee involvement are dealt with in the Corporate responsibility section on pages 38 and 39.
In the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group employed an average of 16,637 staff worldwide, approximately 91.5% of whom were located in the UK.
Principal subsidiary, joint venture and associated undertakings: These are shown on page 131.
Treasury management, financial risk management and the use of financial instruments: This is covered on page 45 and in note 2 to the Group financial statements.
Changes in asset values: These are dealt with in the financial statements.
Acquisitions and disposals: Information regarding the Groups acquisition during the course of the year is set out in note 31 on pages 121 and 122 and they are also referred to in the Business review appearing on pages 16 to 49.
A description of the VT Acquisition is set out on page 48.
There were no disposals during the year.
Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in the Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise, as the Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine or, in the absence of any such determination, as the Directors may determine.
The Directors practice is to seek annual authority from shareholders at each years Annual General Meeting to allot shares including authority to allot free of statutory pre-emption rights up to specified amounts and also to buy-back the Companys shares, again up to a specified amount.
At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or by being present in person in relation to resolutions to be proposed at a general meeting.
No member is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote, either personally or by proxy, at a general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if they or any person with an interest in their shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require the provision of information with respect to interests in their voting shares and they or any interested person have failed to supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information required by the relevant section 793 notice, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully-paid share, although such discretion may not be exercised in a way which the Financial Services Authority regards as preventing dealings in the shares of the relevant class or classes from taking place on an open or proper basis.
The Directors may likewise refuse to register any transfer of a share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company other than certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights in the Company.
At the date of this report, 229,687,601 ordinary shares of 60p each have been issued and are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
