74 Remuneration report continued Babcock International Group Pension Scheme the Scheme audited Bill Tame is a member of the senior executive tier of the Babcock International Group Pension Scheme.
The accrual rate for him under the Scheme is one-thirtieth of salary within the applicable Scheme earnings cap for each year of service.
Pension is calculated on his base salary up to the earnings cap in the 12 months prior to retirement at age 60 or above.
Membership of the Scheme also entitles him to life assurance cover of four times base salary up to the earnings cap.
The earnings cap adopted by the Scheme is the same as the former statutory earnings cap, index-linked in the same way.
The Company takes out additional life assurance cover in respect of four times his salary in excess of the earnings cap.
Bill Tames pension entitlements under the Scheme defined benefit are set out in the following table: Increase in accrued benefits Transfer excluding value inflation of increase in Change in during the Accrued accrued Transfer Transfer accrued Increase in year ended pension at benefits after value at value at benefits less transfer value 31 March 31 March 1 April 31 March Directors less Directors allowing for 2010 2010 inflation 2009 2010 contributions contribution Director pa Bill Tame 34,156 5,578 4,721 467,680 664,616 69,231 190,756 1.
Inflation has been taken as 3.4% for the purposes of calculating increases in transfer values and pension earned.
The transfer value of the increase in pension accrued is calculated in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11, and is stated after deducting members contributions.
The figures in the above table make no allowance for the cost of death in service benefits under the Scheme.
The figures in the above table make no allowance for any benefits in respect of earnings in excess of the Inland Revenue earnings cap.
In calculating the above figures no account has been taken of any retained benefits which he may have from previous employments.
No payments have been made to retired Directors in excess of the retirement benefit to which they were entitled on the date the benefits first became payable or, if later, 31 March 1997.
Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas, who were not Directors in the year under review, each only having become a Director on 1 May 2010, are members of the executive tier of the Scheme.
They will accrue pension at the rate of one-forty-fifth of salary within the Scheme earnings cap applicable to them for each year of service.
Pension is calculated on their base salaries up to the earnings cap applicable to them in the 12 months prior to retirement at age 65 or above.
Membership of the Scheme also entitles them to life assurance cover of four times base salary up to the earnings cap.
The Company takes out additional life assurance cover in respect of four times their salaries in excess of their earnings cap.
They also each receive a salary supplement of 15% including employers national insurance contributions of the excess of their earnings over the applicable Scheme earnings cap only contributing into the Companys pension scheme on their capped salaries.
These supplements do not count for share award or bonus purposes.
Other pension arrangements audited Before 1 April 2006, the Company provided a Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme FURBS for Bill Tame in respect of his salary in excess of the earnings cap.
The Company contributed to the FURBS an amount equal to 20% of the excess including employers national insurance contributions, with him making contributions into the Companys pension scheme on his full uncapped salary.
As from April 2006, this was replaced with a salary supplement of 15% of the excess including employers national insurance contributions, with him contributing into the Companys pension scheme only on capped salary.
The value of this supplement in the year to 31 March 2010 was 25,000.
The cost of providing additional life assurance cover was: 2010 2009 Director 000 000 Bill Tame 2 2
