79 All the L-TIP and PSP awards made to date to the current Directors have been made by the trustee of the Babcock Employee Share Trust as nil-cost options.
The number of shares awarded under the outstanding unvested L-TIP awards had a value equal to 100% of the Directors qualifying annual salary at the date of the award and those awarded under the PSP had a value on award of 150% of that salary value calculated in each case using the average of the mid-market closing price of the Companys shares for the three business days preceding the award date.
Subject to satisfaction of the performance criteria attached to the L-TIP and PSP awards see below, the Directors may call for the release to them of the award shares during the respective exercise periods.
Subject to the rules of the plan, an earlier release of shares under unvested awards may be allowed by the Remuneration Committee for example, in the event of a cessation of employment or a change in control, but unless the Committee otherwise decides of not more than a timeapportioned proportion and then only having regard to the Companys performance, though the Committee has discretion to allow a greater proportion to be released.
The performance conditions attached to the as yet unvested L-TIP and PSP awards are described below.
Performance measures attached to as yet unvested L-TIP and PSP awards Performance is judged over the period of three financial years from the start of the financial year in which the award is made.
Performance is measured at the end of the period and is not re-tested.
The following two tables explain the targets attached to as yet unvested awards.
The tests applied to L-TIP awards that have previously vested but not yet been exercised are described under the table on page 77 above.
L-TIP Awards not yet vested: 2008 L-TIP Awards Performance period 1 April 200831 March 2011 EPS growth test Proportion of award vesting Comparative TSR test Proportion of total award vesting Real compound annual growth 50% Upper quartile ranking 50% of 8% or more in peer group Real compound annual growth 12.5% Ranking immediately 12.5% of 4% above median Intermediate growth between Straight line basis between Intermediate ranking Straight-line basis between the above points 12.5% and 50% between the above points 12.5% and 50% Real compound annual growth 0% At or below 0% of less than 4% median ranking Notes: EPS is adjusted to exclude exceptional items and acquired intangible amortisation.
Real EPS growth is that in excess of the change in the consumer prices index.
For the comparative TSR test, the comparator group of companies for the 2008 awards comprised the constituents of the FTSE 350 Support Services Index as at the date of grant this was a peer group in the same FTSE sector as the Company and was chosen pending the full review of longer term incentives and the appropriate peer group going forward which was carried out in 2008 09.
80 Remuneration report continued The 2009 PSP awards Performance period 1 April 200931 March 2012 EPS growth test Proportion of award vesting Comparative TSR test Proportion of total award vesting Real compound annual growth 50% Outperformance of the 50% of 11% or more median TSR performance for the peer group taken as a note: for awards to be made whole by 9% or more in 2010, this will increased to 12.5% Real compound annual growth 8.3% TSR performance equivalent 8.3% of 4% to the median for the peer group as a whole Intermediate growth Straight-line basis between Intermediate ranking Straight-line basis between between the above points 8.3% and 50% between the above points 8.3% and 50% Real compound annual growth 0% Performance less than 0% of less than 4% equivalent to median for the whole peer group Notes: Participants will be entitled to a vesting of shares under the TSR element only to the extent the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the recorded TSR is a genuine reflection of the underlying performance of the Company over the performance period.
EPS is adjusted to exclude acquired intangible amortisation, but, unless the Committee decides otherwise, includes exceptional items.
Real EPS growth is that in excess of the change in the retail prices index.
The share awards carry the right to receive on vesting any dividends that would have been paid in the period between grant and vesting or, if the Committee so decides, a number of shares having a market value equivalent to the amount of the dividends when the dividend would have been paid, but this right applies only to the shares that actually vest under the award.
The Committee intends that the current awards will receive such entitlement, if any, in cash.
For the TSR element, the peer group is the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and financial services.
This group was chosen after careful review due to the fact that Babcocks closest peers straddle multiple sectors, not just support services, and the broader group makes the calibration more robust.
Proposed PSP awards to be made in 2010 The charts below illustrate the proposed vesting schedules for each element of the 2010 PSP award:
