72 Remuneration report continued Following the remuneration review last year, shareholders approved at the 2009 AGM a new 2009 Babcock Performance Share Plan PSP.
The first PSP awards were made in September 2009.
PSP awards may, as was the case with the L-TIP, be granted in the form of performance-related, nil-cost options.
They may also be combined with an award of performancerelated HMRC approved options under the new Company Share Option Plan CSOP also approved at the 2009 AGM in which case the total vesting potential across both awards is adjusted to take account of the CSOP award.
It is the intention of the Company that shares needed to satisfy executive options for Directors and generally awards under the L-TIP, CSOP and PSP will be purchased in the market to the extent that they are not already held in the Groups employee share trusts at the date the options or awards are granted or are exercised, unless it is in the interests of the Company to do otherwise and issue new shares.
Details of the current holdings of shares by employee share trusts and outstanding share awards and options are contained in note 25 to the Financial Statements.
During the financial year to 31 March 2010, PSP awards were made to each of Peter Rogers and Bill Tame over shares having a market value on award of 150% of their qualifying basic salaries.
In the same year, PSP awards and CSOP awards were made to Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas, who were not Directors in the year to 31 March 2010.
Their respective PSP and CSOP awards were linked so that in each case the maximum aggregate number of shares that can be acquired on exercise of the two awards is limited to that number of shares that had a market value on the date of the awards and after deducting any exercise price payable on exercise of the CSOP award equal to 150% of their then base salaries.
The vesting of these PSP awards and, if applicable, CSOP awards made to the Executive Directors and certain senior Group managers depends on Company performance.
The performance criteria are set out in more detail on page 80.
For certain other divisional senior managers, the performance targets attached to PSP Awards were set wholly or in part by reference to divisional profit targets and return on capital employed or operating cash flow, as appropriate to the divisions business.
Further details of options, L-TIP awards, PSP awards and CSOP awards held by the Directors who served during the year under review Peter Rogers and Bill Tame, and the performance criteria attached to them, are set out on pages 76 to 80.
Performance graphs The graphs below were prepared by Kepler Associates.
They show the total shareholder return for a holding in the Companys shares for the period from 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2010 relative to a holding of shares representing respectively the FTSE All-Share Index excluding investment trusts and the FTSE 350 Support Services Sector.
The calculation of the return assumes dividends are reinvested to purchase additional equity.
This FTSE All-Share Index excluding investment trusts is the same index as has been used for this purpose in earlier remuneration reports, as it is a broad index that allows comparison of the Companys performance against the performance of the stock market as a whole.
Support Services is the sector in which the Companys share price is reported.
Over the five-year period, the Company has significantly out-performed both indices.
An investment of 100 in the Company on 1 April 2005 would have been worth assuming the dividends were reinvested in further Company shares 451 at 31 March 2010.
