Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting This Notice of Annual General Meeting is important Resolution 3 and requires your immediate attention.
If you have That John Condron be re-elected as a director.
any doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own personal Resolution 4 financial advice from your stockbroker, bank That John Davis be re-elected as a director.
manager, solicitor, accountant or other financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Resolution 5 Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise That John Coghlan be re-elected as a director.
transferred all your ordinary shares in Yell Group plc, please send this document, together with the Resolution 6 accompanying documents to the purchaser or That Joachim Eberhardt be re-elected as a director.
transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was eected for Resolution 7 transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
That Richard Hooper be re-elected as a director.
Notice is hereby given that the 2010 Annual Resolution 8 General Meeting of Yell Group plc the Company That Tim Bunting be re-elected as a director.
will be held at Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2HS on Thursday 29 July 2010 at Resolution 9 11.00am to consider and, if thought t, pass the That Carlos Espinosa fide los Monteros be re-elected following resolutions: as a director.
Ordinary resolutions Resolution 10 That Robert Wigley be elected as a director.
Resolution 1 That the report of the directors and auditors, and Resolution 11 the audited financial statements of the Company, That Toby Coppel be elected as a director.
for the year ended 31 March 2010 be received and considered.
As Robert Wigley and Toby Coppel were appointed by the directors, shareholder consent to their The directors are required by law to present to the election to the Board is required at the 2010 Annual shareholders of the Company at a general meeting General Meeting, the first such meeting since their the report of the directors and auditors, and the appointments.
As a matter of best practice, all of audited financial statements of the Company, for the other directors of the Company believe that they the year ended 31 March 2010.
The report of the should retire and submit themselves for re-election directors and the audited financial statements at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Biographical have been approved by the directors, and the report details of the directors of the Company may be of the auditors has been approved by the auditors, found in the 2010 Annual Report of the Company and a copy of each of these documents may be starting at page 34.
The Chairman has confirmed, found in the 2010 Annual Report of the Company following a performance review, that all directors starting at page 30. standing for election and re-election continue to perform eectively and demonstrate commitment Resolution 2 to their roles.
That the report on the remuneration of directors for the year ended 31 March 2010 be approved.
Resolution 12 Listed companies are required to include certain That  LLP be reappointed specified information on the remuneration of their auditors of the Company to hold oce until the directors for each financial year in a report and conclusion of the next general meeting of the to give their shareholders an opportunity to approve Company before which financial statements are laid.
The report on the remuneration of The auditors are responsible for examining the the directors of the Company for the year ended annual financial statements of the Company and 31 March 2010 may be found in the 2010 Annual forming an opinion as to whether they give a true Report of the Company starting at page 45. and fair view of its results and financial position.
As the vote is advisory it does not aect the actual It is a requirement of law that the Company remuneration paid to any individual director.
appoint auditors at each meeting at which financial statements are presented to its shareholders, such appointment to continue until the next meeting at which financial statements are presented.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 111 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Resolution 13 That the directors be authorised to determine At a general meeting held on 26 November 2009, the remuneration of the auditors.
the directors were given authority under section 551 This resolution, if passed, will give the directors of the 2006 Act in substitution for the previous of the Company the authority to determine the authority given at the 2009 Annual General remuneration of the auditors for the audit work Meeting to allot ordinary shares in the capital of to be carried out by them in the next financial year.
the Company up to a maximum nominal amount The amount of the remuneration paid to the auditors of 7,858,931 being one-third of the issued share for the next financial year will be disclosed in the capital at that time.
This authority expires at the next audited financial statements of the Company.
end of the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Part a of resolution 14 seeks to renew the directors Resolution 14 general authority, on broadly the same terms as That the directors be generally and unconditionally the authority granted on 26 November 2009, to authorised for the purposes of section 551 of the allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, to exercise 7,790,694 as permitted by the Companys articles all the powers of the Company to allot shares of association and pursuant to the provisions in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe of section 551 of the 2006 Act.
This amount is for, or convert any security into, shares in the equivalent to 779,069,423 shares and represents Company Rights : approximately one-third of the nominal amount of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares a up to an aggregate nominal amount of at 7 June 2010 the latest practicable date prior 7,790,694: and to publication of this Notice.
This is in line with b comprising equity securities as dened in the guidelines issued by the Association of British section 560 of the 2006 Act up to a further Insurers ABI in December 2008.
Other than in aggregate nominal amount of 7,790,694 connection with the Companys various share-based by way of a rights issue to holders of ordinary plans for senior executives and employees, the Board shares on the register of members at such has no present intention of allotting ordinary shares.
record dates as the directors may determine Part b of resolution 14 is a new authority which, in in proportion as nearly as may be practicable line with the ABIs guidelines, seeks to authorise the to the respective numbers of ordinary shares directors to allot ordinary shares in connection with held or deemed to be held by them on any such a rights issue to existing shareholders in proportion record dates and to holders of any other class as nearly as may be practicable to their existing of equity securities as required by the rights holdings up to a further aggregate nominal amount of those securities or as the directors otherwise of 7,970,694 representing approximately one-third consider necessary, but subject to such of the issued ordinary share capital excluding exclusions or other arrangements as the treasury shares at 7 June 2010 the latest practicable directors may consider necessary or appropriate date prior to publication of this Notice.
to deal with fractional entitlements, treasury shares, record dates or legal, regulatory or The directors do not currently intend to exercise practical diculties which may arise under the this authority and no issue of shares will be made laws of, or the requirements of any regulatory which would eectively alter control of the Company body or stock exchange in, any territory or by without the sanction of shareholders in general virtue of shares being represented by depositary meeting.
In the event that the Company uses the receipts or any other matter whatsoever, authority under part b of the resolution in whole or part the directors would all stand for re-election provided that this authority shall expire at the at next years Annual General Meeting as is their conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the current practice.
The authorities sought under Company in 2011 save that the Company may before paragraphs a and b of this resolution will expire such expiry make any oer or agreement which at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights in 2011. to be granted after such expiry and the directors may allot shares or grant Rights in pursuance of At 7 June 2010 the latest practicable date prior to any such oer or agreement as if this authority publication of this Notice, the Company held nil had not expired: and all unexercised authorities ordinary shares in treasury.
previously granted to the directors to allot shares and grant Rights be and are hereby revoked.
112 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Resolution 15 This resolution does not purport to authorise any That in accordance with sections 366 and 367 of particular donation or expenditure but is expressed the 2006 Act the Company and all companies that in general terms as required by the 2006 Act and are its subsidiaries at any time during the period is intended to authorise normal donations and for which this resolution has eect be generally expenditure.
If passed, resolution 15 would allow and unconditionally authorised to: the Company and its subsidiaries to make donations to political parties, other political organisations a make political donations to political parties or and independent election candidates and to incur independent election candidates as such terms political expenditure as dened in the 2006 Act are dened in the 2006 Act, not exceeding up to an aggregate limit of 100,000 during the 100,000 in aggregate: period up to twelve months after the passing of the b make political donations to political resolution.
This will allow the Company to continue organisations other than political parties to support the community and put forward its views as such terms are dened in the 2006 Act, to wider business and Government interests without not exceeding 100,000 in aggregate: and running the risk of being in breach of the law.
Any political donation made or political expenditure c incur political expenditure as such term is incurred which is in excess of 2,000 will be dened in the 2006 Act, not exceeding disclosed in the Companys 2011 Annual Report, 100,000 in aggregate, as required by the 2006 Act.
during the period beginning on the date of the passing of this resolution and ending at the Resolution 16 conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the That rule 4.01 of the Yell Group plc 2003 Employee Company to be held in 2011, provided that the Stock Purchase Plan be amended by replacing maximum authorised amounts referred to in a, The maximum number of unissued Shares in b and c may be comprised of one or more sums respect of which options may be granted under in dierent currencies which, for the purposes of the Plan is 11,116,667 Shares with The maximum calculating the said amounts, shall be converted number of unissued Shares in respect of which into pounds sterling at such rate as the Board may options may be granted under the Plan is in its absolute discretion determine to be appropriate.
Resolution 15 concerns Part 14 of the 2006 Act which The Company operates the Yell Group plc 2003 came into force on 1 October 2007 and provides Employee Stock Purchase Plan ESPP for its that political donations made by a company to US employees.
The ESPP is an all-employee stock political parties, to other political organisations purchase plan under which US employees can and to independent election candidates or political make monthly savings and use the amount saved expenditure incurred by a company must be to acquire ordinary shares in the Company.
authorised in advance by shareholders.
Approximately 5,080 employees are eligible to participate in the ESPP.
The ESPP is a tax-favoured It is not the policy of the Company to make political plan under US Internal Revenue Code rules.
One donations of the type caught by these provisions of the requirements for maintaining tax-favoured and the directors have no intention of changing status under US Internal Revenue Code rules is that policy.
However, as a result of the wide that there must be a xed numerical limit on the denitions in the 2006 Act, normal expenditure number of shares available for purchase under the such as expenditure on organisations concerned ESPP and that any increase to this xed numerical with matters of public policy, law reform and limit must be approved by shareholders.
representation of the business community and business activities such as communicating with the As the ESPP has been operated for a number of Government and political parties at local, national years, the current limit of 11,116,667 ordinary shares and European level might be construed as political of which 10,038,494 shares have previously been expenditure or as a donation to a political party issued is too restrictive for the purposes of the or other political organisation and fall within the ESPP and shareholder approval is being sought restrictions of the 2006 Act.
to increase the limit to 23,608,164 ordinary shares representing 1% of the current issued share capital of the Company to enable the ESPP to continue to be oered to US employees.
On 13 May 2010, the Board approved, subject to shareholder approval, this increase in the number of shares issuable under the ESPP.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 113 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Resolution 17 is a special resolution which will give Special resolutions the directors authority to allot shares in the capital of the Company pursuant to the authority granted Resolution 17 under resolution 14 above or to sell treasury shares That the directors be given power pursuant to for cash without complying with the pre-emption sections 570 and 573 of the 2006 Act to allot equity rights in the 2006 Act in certain circumstances.
securities as dened in section 560 of the 2006 In line with the ABI guidelines described in relation Act in the Company for cash either pursuant to the to resolution 14 above, this authority will permit authority conferred by resolution 14 or by way of a directors to allot shares: sale of treasury shares for cash, as if section 561 1 of the 2006 Act did not apply to any such allotment a up to an aggregate nominal value of 15,581,388 or sale, provided that this power shall be limited to: being two-thirds of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 7 June 2010, the latest a the allotment of equity securities in connection practicable date prior to publication of this with or pursuant to an oer of securities but, Notice on an oer to existing shareholders on in the case of the authority granted under a pre-emptive basis.
However, unless the shares resolution 14 b above, by way of a rights issue are allotted pursuant to a rights issue rather only in favour of holders of ordinary shares on than an open oer, the directors may only allot the register of members at such record dates as shares up to a nominal amount of 7,790,694 the directors may determine and to holders of being one-third of the Companys issued share any other class of equity securities as required by capital in each case subject to any adjustments, the rights of those securities or as the directors such as for fractional entitlements and overseas otherwise consider necessary in proportion as shareholders, as the directors see t : and nearly as may be practicable to the respective number of ordinary shares held or deemed to b up to a maximum nominal value of 1,180,408 be held by them on such record dates but subject being approximately 5% of the Companys issued to such exclusions or other arrangements as the ordinary share capital at 7 June 2010, the latest directors may consider necessary or appropriate practicable date prior to publication of this to deal with fractional entitlements, treasury Notice otherwise than in connection with an shares, record dates or legal, regulatory or oer to existing shareholders.
practical diculties which may arise under the If given, this authority will expire at the conclusion laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory of the Annual General Meeting in 2011.
The directors body or stock exchange in, any territory or by confirm their intention to follow the provisions virtue of shares being represented by depositary of the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles receipts or any other matter whatsoever: and regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period.
The Principles provide that, b the allotment other than pursuant to subin any rolling three year period, companies should paragraph a of this resolution 17 to any person not issue shares for cash representing more than or persons of equity securities or sale of treasury 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital on a shares up to an aggregate nominal amount non-pre-emptive basis, without prior consultation of 1,180,408, with shareholders.
provided that these authorities shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Resolution 18 Company in 2011, save that the Company may That the Company be generally and unconditionally before such expiry make any oer or agreement authorised to make market purchases within the that would or might require equity securities to be meaning of section 693 4 of the 2006 Act of any allotted, or treasury shares to be sold, after such ordinary shares of 1.00 pence each in the capital expiry and the directors may allot equity securities, of the Company on such terms and in such manner or sell treasury shares, in pursuance of any such as the directors may from time to time determine, oer or agreement as if the power conferred and, where such shares are held as treasury shares, hereby had not expired.
the Company may use them for the purposes of its employee share plans, provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased is 236,081,643 representing approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital at 7 June 2010: 114 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued b the minimum price that may be paid for each authority would be eected by means of market ordinary share is 1.00 pence which amount purchases on the London Stock Exchange.
is exclusive of expenses, if any: The total number of options to subscribe for c the maximum price exclusive of expenses ordinary shares in the Company outstanding at that may be paid for each ordinary share is an 7 June 2010 the latest practicable date prior to amount equal to the higher of: i 105% of the publication of this Notice was 126,855,203.
This average of the middle market quotations for represents 5.37% of the issued ordinary share capital the ordinary shares in the Company as derived excluding treasury shares of the Company at from the Daily Ocial List published by the that date.
If the Company were to buy back the London Stock Exchange for the five business maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to days immediately preceding the day on which the passing of this resolution and cancel them, then such share is contracted to be purchased: the total number of options to subscribe for shares and ii that stipulated by article 5 1 of the EU in the Company outstanding at 7 June 2010 would Buyback and Stabilisation Regulations 2003 represent 5.97% of the reduced issued ordinary share No.
2273 2003 being the higher of the price capital excluding treasury shares of the Company.
of the last independent trade and highest The Company does not have any share warrants.
current independent bid for an ordinary share Sections 724 to 732 of the 2006 Act enables listed in the Company on the trading venues where companies to retain any of their own shares they the market purchases by the Company pursuant have purchased as treasury shares instead of to the authority conferred by this resolution 18 cancelling them.
The Company will consider holding will be carried out : any of its own shares that it purchases pursuant to d unless previously renewed, revoked or varied by this resolution as treasury shares, which will give the the Company in general meeting, this authority directors exibility in the management of the capital shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual base of the Company.
No dividends will be paid on General Meeting of the Company in 2011: and treasury shares while held in treasury, and no voting rights will attach to them.
The Company does not e the Company may, before this authority expires, have any share warrants.
make a contract to purchase its ordinary shares that will or might be executed wholly or partly Resolution 19 after the expiry of this authority, and may make That a general meeting of the Company, other purchases of its ordinary shares pursuant to any than an Annual General Meeting, may be called such contract as if this authority had not expired.
on not less than 14 clear days notice The directors consider that, in certain circumstances, At the Companys 2007 Annual General Meeting, it may be appropriate and in the best interests of new articles of association were adopted to shareholders generally for the Company to purchase include a provision allowing general meetings of its own shares.
This resolution gives authority for the Company to be called on the minimum notice the Company to purchase up to 236,081,643 of its period provided for in the 2006 Act.
Prior to the ordinary shares which is approximately equivalent amendment of the 2006 Act in August 2009 as to 10% of the issued share capital excluding a result of the Companies Shareholders Rights treasury shares of the Company at 7 June 2010 Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights the latest practicable date prior to publication of Regulations which implement the EU Shareholder this Notice and sets minimum and maximum prices.
Rights Directive in the UK, the minimum notice This authority will expire at the conclusion of the period permitted by the 2006 Act for general Annual General Meeting in 2011. meetings, other than Annual General Meetings of public companies, was 14 days.
One of The directors have no present plans to exercise any the amendments to the 2006 Act made by the authority granted by this resolution in the future, Shareholders Rights Regulations increases the but will keep the matter under review, taking into minimum notice period for listed company general account the financial resources of the Company, meetings to 21 days, but with an ability for the Companys share price and future funding companies to reduce this period back to 14 days opportunities.
The directors will only exercise this other than for Annual General Meetings provided authority where, in the light of prevailing market that two conditions are met.
The first condition is conditions, they consider it will result in an increase that there is an annual resolution of shareholders in earnings per ordinary share in the Company and approving the reduction in the minimum notice would be in the interests of shareholders generally.
The second condition The purchase of shares by the Company under this Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 115 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued is that the Company must make a means of to shareholder meetings to ensure consistency with electronic voting available to all shareholders for the 2006 Act as amended with eect from 3 August that meeting.
This condition is met if the Company 2009 by the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
oers a facility, accessible to all shareholders, Under the 2006 Act, all provisions of the Companys to appoint a proxy by means of a website.
memorandum, but most signicantly the objects Please refer to Appointment of a proxy and clause, were deemed to form part of the Companys voting below for details of the Companys articles from 1 October 2009.
It is possible for arrangements for electronic proxy appointment.
the objects clause to be removed or amended by The directors are therefore proposing resolution 19 amending the articles by special resolution.
It is not as a special resolution to approve 14 days as the necessary under the 2006 Act for a company to set minimum period of notice for all general meetings out its objects.
The 2006 Act provides that, unless of the Company other than Annual General the articles state otherwise, a companys objects Meetings.
The approval will be eective until the will be unrestricted.
next Annual General Meeting of the Company, Another key provision of the memorandum which when it is intended that the approval be renewed.
is deemed to form part of the Companys articles The Board will consider on a case by case basis from 1 October 2009 is the restriction created by the whether the use of the exibility oered by the existing authorised share capital statement.
In line shorter period is merited, taking into account with this, the statement of authorised share capital the circumstances, including whether the business was removed when the Company adopted its of the meeting is time-sensitive.
current articles of association the Current Articles on 26 November 2009, however, the Companys Resolution 20 objectives are still restricted under the current That: articles.
Therefore, by adopting the New Articles a the articles of association of the Company which do not contain the objects clause, the be amended by deleting all of the provisions Company will remove this restriction, which would formerly in the Companys memorandum otherwise be deemed to form part of the Companys of association which, by virtue of Section 28 articles under section 28 of the 2006 Act.
of the 2006 Act, are treated as provisions For a more detailed explanation of these and of the Companys articles of association: and other amendments please refer to the Appendix b the proposed new articles of association of the to this Notice.
Company as produced to the Annual General Meeting and initialled by the Chairman for Recommendation the purposes of identication be adopted as The Board considers that all the resolutions the new articles of association of the Company proposed to be considered at the Annual General in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, Meeting are likely to promote the success of the current articles of association.
the Company and are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Company proposes to adopt new articles of The directors unanimously recommend that you association the New Articles.
The New Articles vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend incorporate amendments primarily to take account to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings of changes to company law brought about by the which amount to 7,601,384 shares representing 2006 Act which came into force on 1 October 2009 approximately 0.32% of the existing issued and changes made to the 2006 Act in August 2009 ordinary share capital of the Company to implement the EU Shareholders Rights Directive excluding treasury shares.
in the UK, as well as some minor technical or clarifying changes.
Appointment of a proxy and voting The principal changes in the New Articles relate A member of the Company entitled to attend to shareholder meetings and resolutions, the and vote may appoint a proxy who need not Companys constitution and share capital.
be a member of the Company to exercise all or any of his her rights to attend and speak and As noted in respect of resolution 19 above, in vote at the Annual General Meeting.
A member August 2009, changes were made to the provisions can appoint more than one proxy in relation to of the 2006 Act relating to company meetings by the Annual General Meeting provided that each the Shareholders Rights Regulations to implement proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached the EU Shareholders Rights Directive in the UK.
to dierent shares held by him her.
The New Articles incorporate amendments in relation 116 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Your proxy could be the Chairman, another director Changes to entries on the register of members after of the Company or another person who has agreed that time will be disregarded in determining the to attend to represent you.
Your proxy must vote rights of any person to attend or to vote and the as you instruct and must attend the Annual General number of votes they may cast at the Annual Meeting for your vote to be counted.
a proxy does not preclude you from attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person.
If you Appointment of proxies online attend the Annual General Meeting in person, your As noted above, you may, if you wish, register the proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
appointment of a proxy for the Annual General Meeting online by logging onto www.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed for use in connection with You will need to use a 25-digit number made up of the Annual General Meeting, if desired.
Notes on your Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder reference completing the Form of Proxy can be found on the printed on your proxy form.
Full details of the relevant form and should be read carefully before procedure are given on the website.
The proxy the form is completed.
appointment must be received by Equiniti not In order to be valid, an appointment of proxy must later than 11.00am on 27 July 2010.
The use of be completed and returned by one of the following the internet service in connection with the Annual methods: General Meeting is governed by Equinitis conditions of use set out on the website, www.
co. uk, In hard copy form by post, courier or hand to and may be read by logging onto the site.
the Companys registrars, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZL.
Please note that the Company takes all reasonable By completing it online at www.
co. uk precautions to ensure no viruses are present in any by following the on-screen instructions to submit it electronic communications it sends out but the see further Appointment of proxies online below.
Company cannot accept responsibility for loss or damage arising from the opening or use of any email In the case of CREST members, by utilising the or attachments from the Company and recommend CREST electronic proxy appointment service that members subject all messages to virus checking see CREST voting below.
Any electronic communication and in each case the appointment of proxy must sent to the Registrars that is found to contain a reach the Companys registrars not later than computer virus will not be accepted.
CREST voting To change your proxy instructions you may return CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy a new Form of Proxy using any of the methods or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy set out above.
When you have appointed a proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual using the hard copy proxy form and would like General Meeting to be held on 29 July 2010 and any to change the instruction using another hard copy adjournment s thereof by using the procedures proxy form, please contact Equiniti: 0871 384 2049. described in the CREST Manual on the Euroclear Calls to this number cost 8p per minute from a website www.
CREST Personal BT landline, other providers costs may vary.
Lines Members or other CREST sponsored members, and open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
If calling those CREST members who have appointed a voting from overseas please dial 44 0 121 415 7105. service provider s, should refer to their CREST The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be see above also applies in relation to any amended able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Where two or more valid separate In order for a proxy appointment or instruction appointments of proxy are received in respect of the made using the CREST service to be valid, the same share in respect of the same meeting, the one appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy which is last sent shall be treated as replacing and Instruction must be properly authenticated in revoking the other s. accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds The time by which a person must be entered on EUI specifications and must contain the the register of members to have the right to attend information required for such instructions, as or vote at the Annual General Meeting and for described in the CREST Manual.
The message, determining the number of shares held is 6.00pm regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment on 27 July 2010 or, if the Annual General Meeting of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given is adjourned, 6.00pm on the date which is two days to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to prior to the adjourned Annual General Meeting.
be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 117 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued issuers agent ID RA19 by 11.00am on 27 July 2010.
Corporate representatives For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken Any member of the Company which is a corporation to be the time as determined by the timestamp may authorise one or more corporate representatives applied to the message by the CREST Applications who may exercise on its behalf all of the powers Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve that the corporation would be entitled to exercise the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner if it were an individual member of the Company prescribed by CREST.
provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
It is no longer necessary to nominate CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST a designated corporate representative.
sponsors or voting service providers should note that EUI does not make available special procedures Audit concerns in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system Members satisfying the thresholds in section 527 timings and limitations will therefore apply in of the 2006 Act can require the Company to publish relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
on its website a statement setting out any matter It is the responsibility of the CREST member relating to: i the audit of the Companys financial concerned to take or, if the CREST member is statements including the auditors report and the a CREST Personal Member or sponsored member conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the or has appointed a voting service provider s, to Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to hold oce since the last Annual General Meeting, to ensure that a message is transmitted by means in each case that the members propose to raise of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company connection, CREST members and, where applicable, cannot require the members requesting any such their CREST sponsors or voting service providers website publication to pay its expenses in complying are referred, in particular, to those sections of the with sections 527 or 528 of the 2006 Act.
Where CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the Company is required to place a statement on the CREST system and timings.
a website under section 527 of the 2006 Act, it must The Company may treat as invalid a CREST forward the statement to the Companys auditors Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in not later than the time when it makes the statement Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities available on the website.
The business which Regulations 2001. may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has Voting by poll been required under section 527 of the 2006 Act Voting on all resolutions at the Annual General to publish on its website.
Meeting will be conducted by way of a poll rather than a show of hands.
This is a more transparent Rights of nominated persons method of voting as member votes are to be Please note that if you are an indirect investor and counted according to the number of shares held.
have been nominated to receive communication As soon as practicable following the Annual General from the Company in accordance with section 146 of Meeting, the results of the voting at the Annual the 2006 Act by a person who holds shares on your General Meeting, the numbers of proxy votes cast behalf the registered shareholder, you do not have for and against and the number of votes actively the right to appoint a proxy.
However, you may withheld in respect of each resolution and other have a right under an agreement with the registered information required by section 341 of the 2006 Act shareholder to be appointed or have somebody will be announced via a Regulatory Information else appointed as proxy.
Alternatively, if you do not Service and also placed on the Companys website: have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, you www.
may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the registered shareholder as to the exercise of such voting rights.
118 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Right to have questions answered Information available on the Companys website The Company must cause to be answered at the The contents of this Notice of Annual General Annual General Meeting any question relating to Meeting, details of the total number of shares in the business being dealt with at the Annual General respect of which members are entitled to exercise Meeting which is put by a member attending voting rights at the Annual General Meeting, and, the Annual General Meeting, except i if to do if applicable, any members statements, members so would interfere with the preparation for the resolutions or members matters of business Annual General Meeting or involve the disclosure received by the Company after the date of this of condential information, ii if the answer has Notice will be available on the Companys website: already been given on a website in the form of www.
an answer to a question, or iii if it is undesirable Further copies of the Companys 2010 Annual Report in the interests of the Company or the good order can be sent to shareholders on request, or viewed of the Annual General Meeting that the question on the Companys website at www.
You may not use any electronic address provided Total voting rights in this Notice of Annual General Meeting or any At 7 June 2010 being the latest business day prior other related document including the proxy form to the publication of this Notice, the Companys to communicate with the Company or Equiniti for issued share capital consists of 2,360,816,434 any purposes other than those expressly stated.
ordinary shares, carrying one vote each, and the By order of the Board Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are 2,360,816,434.
Howard Rubenstein Documents Company Secretary The following documentation is available for 8 June 2010 inspection during business hours at the registered Registered Oce: oce of the Company on any weekday not including Queens Walk, Reading public holidays.
They will also be available for Berkshire RG1 7PT inspection at the Annual General Meeting venue, from 9.30am until the meeting concludes: Registered in England and Wales No.
4180320 Register of interests of directors and their families in the share capital of the Company.
Copy of all service contracts between the directors and the Company.
Copy of the terms of appointment of nonexecutive directors.
Printed copies of this Notice of Annual General Meeting and the Companys Annual Report 2010.
Copy of the Current Articles and New Articles of the Company.
Copy of the amended rules of the Yell Group plc 2003 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 119 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Limited liability Article 3 Appendix Under the 2006 Act, the memorandum of FURTHER EXPLANATION ON PROPOSED CHANGES association also no longer contains a clause stating TO THE COMPANYS ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION that the liability of the members of a company is limited.
For existing companies, this statement The 2006 Act, which replaced the Companies Act is automatically treated as having moved into the 1985 the 1985 Act, was implemented in stages articles on 1 October 2009.
As noted in relation to and was fully in force by 1 October 2009.
In addition, the objects clause above, resolution 20 confirms the the Shareholders Rights Regulations which amend removal, from the Companys articles of association, certain provisions of the 2006 Act relating to of the provisions of the Companys memorandum meetings of the Company came into force on of association which are treated as forming part 3 August 2009.
Under Resolution 20 the Company of the Companys articles of association by virtue is adopting the New Articles which will reect the of section 28 of the 2006 Act, which includes the changes in company law brought about by the statement of limited liability.
An explicit statement Shareholders Rights Regulations and by the of the members limited liability is therefore provisions of the 2006 Act which came into eect included in the New Articles.
The New Articles also include some other modernising and claricatory Authorised share capital and unissued shares amendments, including, where appropriate, tracking The 2006 Act abolishes the concept of authorised the wording of the new model form articles for share capital and, under the 2006 Act, the public companies contained in Schedule 3 to the memorandum of association no longer contains Companies Model Articles Regulations 2008 a statement of the Companys authorised share the model form articles, which replace the capital.
Accordingly, when the Company adopted Table A articles under the 1985 Act on which many its Current Articles on 26 November 2009, it of the Companys Current Articles are based.
Set removed the provision contained in its previous out below is a summary of the principal changes.
articles setting out the maximum amount of shares that may be allotted by the Company.
The Companys objects Further changes are now proposed to remove any The 2006 Act signicantly reduces the constitutional remaining references to authorised share capital signicance of a companys memorandum.
The and to unissued shares from the New Articles.
provisions governing the operations of the Company are currently set out in both its memorandum of Transfer of shares Articles 30 and 31 association and its articles of association.
Under the Under the 2006 Act, a company must either 2006 Act, the memorandum no longer contains an register a transfer or give the transferee notice of, objects clause and simply records the names of the and reasons for, its refusal to register the transfer.
subscribers and the number of shares which each The Current Articles provide for the Company, in subscriber agreed to take in the Company.
Under the event that it refuses to register a transfer, to section 28 of the 2006 Act, the objects clause and all give the transferee notice of, but not reasons for, other provisions in the memorandum are treated as such refusal.
The New Articles therefore additionally part of the articles with eect from 1 October 2009 include a requirement for the Company to give but the Company can remove these provisions reasons for any refusal to the transferee.
Unless the articles provide Company cannot in any event refuse to transfer a otherwise, the Companys objects will be unrestricted.
fully paid share except in very limited circumstances The Company is proposing to remove its objects such as a transfer to more than four persons.
clause together with all other provisions of its The provision which gave the ability to suspend memorandum which, by virtue of the 2006 Act, are the registration of transfers of shares for periods treated as forming part of the Companys articles of not exceeding 30 days in any one year has been association as of 1 October 2009.
Resolution 20 removed from the New Articles as there is no ability confirms the removal of these provisions and adopts under the 2006 Act to close the register.
120 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate Voting rights Article 62 and sub-divide shares, and reduce share capital The Shareholders Rights Regulations clarify the Article 40 various powers of proxies and representatives of Under the 1985 Act, a company required specic corporate shareholders in respect of resolutions authorisations in its articles of association to taken on a show of hands.
The new position is purchase its own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide that a proxy has one vote on a show of hands in all its shares and to reduce its share capital.
Under the cases including where one member has appointed 2006 Act, public companies do not require specic multiple proxies except when he is appointed by authorisations in their articles of association to multiple members who instruct him to vote in undertake these actions: but shareholder authority dierent ways, in which case he has one vote for is still required.
Amendments have been made to and one vote against the resolution.
Where a the New Articles to reect these changes.
corporate shareholder appoints representatives to attend meetings on its behalf, each duly appointed Participation in meetings at dierent places representative has one vote on a show of hands.
and by electronic means Article 51 The New Articles contain provisions which clarify Amendments made to the 2006 Act by the these rights and also clarify how the provisions Shareholders Rights Regulations specically provide giving a proxy a second vote on a show of hands for the holding and conducting of electronic should apply to discretionary powers.
The New Articles include amendments to provide greater scope for members to participate Validity of votes Article 67 in meetings of the Company even if they are not Following the implementation of the Shareholders present in person at the principal place where the Rights Regulations, proxies are expressly required to meeting is being held.
The amendments allow for vote in accordance with instructions given to them members to participate not only by attendance at by members.
The New Articles contain a provision satellite meeting locations, but also by any other stating that the Company is not required to enquire electronic means of participation.
whether a proxy or corporate representative has voted in accordance with instructions given to Adjournments Article 53 him and that votes cast by a proxy or corporate The Shareholders Rights Regulations add a representative will be valid even if he has not provision to the 2006 Act which requires that, voted in accordance with his instructions.
when a general meeting is adjourned due to lack of quorum, at least ten days notice must be given Termination of proxy authority Article 73 to reconvene the meeting.
The New Articles include The New Articles permit the directors to specify amendments to the provisions dealing with notice in a notice of meeting that, in determining the time of adjourned meetings to make them consistent for delivery of proxies, no account shall be taken with this new requirement.
Polls Article 56 Corporations acting by representatives Article 75 The New Articles include a provision giving the In line with the 2006 Act, the Current Articles directors, as well as the chairman of the meeting, provide for multiple proxies to be appointed a right to demand a poll.
provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a dierent share or shares.
Removal of chairmans casting vote The 2006 Act also provides for multiple corporate Pursuant to changes brought about by the representatives to be appointed and the New Shareholders Rights Regulations, a traded company Articles therefore reect this.
The New Articles also is no longer permitted to allow the chairman to provide that the Company can require a corporate have a casting vote in the event of an equality of representative to produce a certied copy of the votes.
Accordingly, this provision has been removed resolution appointing him before permitting him in the New Articles.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 121 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Retirement of directors by rotation Article 81 Validation of documents in electronic form The New Articles have been redrafted in order to Article 130 make this provision clearer and to ensure as far as Article 130 is included to deal with the validation of possible a regular number of retiring directors each documents in electronic form where such documents year, with the number to retire being the number are required to be signed by a member.
In the case nearest to one-third of the Board excluding those of notices of meetings or proxies, any validation directors who are retiring and seeking re-election requirements must be specified in the notice.
The provision relating to the retirement of a number nearest to one-third each Making and retention of minutes Article 132 year has been deleted.
This Article continues to Article 132 contains a new provision to the eect comply with Combined Code provision A.
7.1 which that minutes must be retained for at least ten years, recommends that all directors should be subject to reecting the relevant provision of the 2006 Act.
re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
No minimum retention time was previously specified.
Article 81 5 requires any non-executive director other than the chairman who has held oce for Power to indemnify directors Article 138 nine years or more to put himself up for re-election The directors indemnity provision has been at each Annual General Meeting.
This is in line amended to make it clear that the Company may, with Combined Code provision A.
7.2. subject to the provisions of the 2006 Act, indemnify a director of an associated company that is the Alternate directors Articles 87 and 91 trustee of an occupational pension scheme, taking Article 87 claries that an alternative director advantage of the qualifying pension scheme is entitled to be paid expenses but not directors indemnity provision in the 2006 Act.
Article 91 c makes it clear that an alternate is subject to the same restrictions as the director who appointed him.
Delegation to persons or committees Article 95 Article 95 follows the new, simplied approach to delegation adopted in the model form articles, allowing the directors to delegate as they decide appropriate.
Notice when post not available Article 125 Article 125 deals with service of notice in the event of a postal strike: it has been amended to allow the Company in such circumstances to serve notices only on those members who receive notices via electronic means, provided that, as before, the Company also puts an advert in two national newspapers and sends a conrmatory hard copy notice if the postal service is available again within seven days of the meeting.
122 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010
