EBITDA is not a direct measure of our liquidity, which is shown by the Groups cash ow statement and needs to be considered in the context of our financial commitments.
We believe that EBITDA is a measure commonly reported and widely used by investors in comparing performance on a consistent basis without regard to depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges, which can vary signicantly depending upon accounting methods particularly when acquisitions have occurred or non-operating factors.
Accordingly, EBITDA has been disclosed in this document to permit a more complete and comprehensive analysis of our operating performance relative to other companies and of our ability to service our debt.
EBITDA is one of the key measures that we use to assess our success in achieving growth and operational eciencies.
See the reconciliation of Group operating profit to EBITDA in note 2 to the financial statements.
EBITDA comprises total Group operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges, all being non-cash items.
Adjusted EBITDA in the year ended 31 March 2010 excluded 17.2 million of exceptional interest cost paid to break interest hedge contracts to avoid over hedged position after early repayment of bank debt and 5.2 million relating to the fair valuation charge for the time value of interest rate caps.
Adjusted EBITDA in the year ended 31 March 2009 excluded 95.5 million of restructuring costs and 14.3 million of accelerated share plan costs, net of an exceptional credit of 6.8 million that arose from a net release of accruals for litigation settlements in the US.
Adjusted EBITDA in the year ended 31 March 2008 excluded 14.5 million of restructuring costs net of an exceptional credit of 11.8 million that arose from releasing accruals for litigation settlements in the US.
Adjusted EBITDA in the year ended 31 March 2007 excluded restructuring costs of 8.9 million.
Adjusted EBITDA in the year ended 31 March 2006 excluded costs of 4.4 million arising from the TransWestern acquisition, and an exceptional credit of 5.0 million from releasing a provision for IPO costs.
b Capital expenditure represents cash expenditure on software, property, plant and equipment, net of sales proceeds.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 15
