Our markets and channels Our vision is to be the best provider of quality business leads and marketing solutions.
04 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Overview We employ circa 13,000 people across Throughout the last year we built three continents including a salesforce 130,000 websites for our customers, of nearly 6,200.
In the last year we providing them with a visible shop provided 341,000 hours of training to window on the internet and ensuring our sales force ensuring they remain they get found in the increasingly best in class.
Group Revenue split by country % We aim to be the best provider 3 1.
United States 50% of quality business leads and 2.
United Kingdom 28% marketing solutions in all our 3.
Spain and 1 Latin America 22% markets, through an integrated portfolio of simple-to-use, cost 2 eective advertising.
Our products are available through printed, online and local search and mobile based media.
42m 122k people used our packages of all our online products products were sold in March 2010. across the Group in the last year.
Internet contribution 20% 1.4m 5% to total revenue % customers advertising in reduction in the Groups our numerous channels to CO emissions over the 2 2010 415m market, of whom over last year.
We deliver our advertiser content We continue to invest in our mobile via the latest devices such as iPhones products to meet the ever changing and iPads as we innovate to benefit needs of our users.
In March 2010 over from the most recent technological six million searches were carried out using developments.
our mobile applications across the Group.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 05 Proving the value We aim to be the marketing and advertising department for our customers, connecting them with millions of our users who are looking for products and services.
I just wanted to congratulate you on your service 28k planos.
Ive been using it for years people bought a Paginas Amarillas and Ive witnessed its evolution from a very simple advert in Chile in the last year.
search form to what it is today, an amazing and very friendly tool.
I want to thank the advertising team for setting up our website.
Thank you so much for caring 362k for a small business like ours, in these economic people bought a yellowbook.
com advert in the last year.
Of the calls we receive as a result of our advert 105 at least 25% are from new customers.
We would UK directory editions published recommend advertising in the Yellow Pages in the last year.
directory, as it is such a well known brand.
I can nd everything I need more quickly and easily 25.7m than I ever have before.
Thank you for people used the Yellowbook.
com Network to look for local products this great service.
When I use 11888, I always receive a 11888 great service and obtain all the information continues to be market leader that I require.
Keep on giving us such an in Spain for telephone directory excellent service.
assistance with a 52% share of the market in the last year.
We are a family run business that has been established for over 25 years.
We feel it is 199k essential to appear on Yell.
com as it is so people bought a Yell.
06 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Overview I found Yell.
com to be just what I wanted, plenty of options for expanding search and 9.7m people used Yell.
com to look changing areas and doing it very quickly.
for local products and services Excellent!!
I created my own company nine years ago and placed my first advertisement in Paginas 30k people bought a Paginas Amarillas Amarillas.
When I use Paginas Amarillas, I sell: advert in Peru in the last year.
as soon as I quit advertising, I definitely dont sell at all.
Our 118 24 7 advertising with Yell represents good value for money.
We are committed to 118 24 7 our advertising with Yell and would definitely awarded Best UK Service by 118 Tracker in October 2009. recommend it to anybody else in business.
I am writing to compliment you on your 1,002 phonebook directory and for it being so user US directory editions published friendly.
In an age dominated by the internet, in the last year.
I still like going to Yellowbook print.
Last year, we thought Who uses paper directories anymore, everybody looks things 546k up online.
We were definitely wrong and people bought an advert in a Yellowbook directory in the missed out on countless opportunities to last year.
ar is very fast and easy to use.
Thanks for thinking about us, 127k people bought a Paginas Amarillas the users.
advert in Argentina in the last year.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 07
