Shareholder information Registered office The use of electronic communications, rather than printed paper 6 Carlton Gardens documents, helps us reduce the environmental impact of our London SW1Y 5AD activities and assist us in managing our costs.
United Kingdom We regularly consult with shareholders to check how they wish Telephone: 44 0 1252 373232 to receive information from us.
Shareholders may receive Company website: www.
com electronic communications in one of two ways: Registered in England and Wales, No.
1470151 via e-mail This option is available through Shareview.
Shareholders receive an e-mail notification when a new Registrars document is made available.
Equiniti Limited 0140 Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing via our website Shareholders receive a notification by West Sussex BN99 6DA post when a new document is made available.
United Kingdom A shareholder is taken to have agreed to website Email: BAESystems@equiniti.
com communications if a response has not been received.
Any document or information required to be sent to shareholders Telephone: 0871 384 2044 is made available on the Companys website and a notification Calls to the above number are charged at 8p per minute from of availability is sent.
Shareholders who receive such a a BT landline.
Other telephony providers costs may vary.
notification are entitled to request a hard copy of the Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
document at any time and may also change the way they Telephone number from outside the UK: 44 121 415 7058 receive communications at any time by contacting Equiniti.
If you have any queries regarding your shareholding, please Notwithstanding any election, the Company may, at its sole contact the registrars.
and absolute discretion, send any notification or information to shareholders in hard copy form.
Dividend mandate Shareholders can arrange to have their dividends paid directly Shareview services into their bank or building society account, by completing a Shareview is a portfolio service offered by Equiniti to investors bank mandate form.
The benefits of this are: which gives shareholders online access to more information on their investments, including balance movements, indicative Cleared funds are received into their bank account on the share prices and information on recent payments.
It can also payment date avoiding a trip to the bank, or a cheque be used to sign up to receive all shareholder communications lost in the post: electronically, or arrange for dividends to be mandated.
One consolidated tax voucher, covering both dividend To take advantage of Shareview, register online at payments made in the financial year: and www.
Click on Register and follow the four BAE Systems saves money and less paper is used easy steps.
Once registered, Shareview is: which is good for shareholders and the environment.
To log on, all that is needed is the user ID, password and the users date of birth.
Information regarding shareholdings is regularly updated.
Data transferred to a shareholders browser is encrypted and not accessible to other internet users without the log on information.
With the 2010 interim dividend, paid in November 2010, Free.
Equiniti make no charge to shareholders for providing to encourage the mandating of dividends and to support the this service.
Companys work with UK armed forces charities, for each new Please visit www.
Details of bank mandate instruction we received we undertook to donate software and equipment requirements are given on the website.
1 to St Dunstans, a charity that supports and cares for blind ex-service men and women.
The response to date has Dividend reinvestment plan been extremely good, with a 2,000 donation being made to The Company offers holders of its ordinary shares the option St Dunstans in December 2010.
A further donation will be to elect to have their dividend reinvested in shares purchased made during 2011. in the market instead of cash.
To make this election, please request a dividend reinvestment plan mandate from our To take advantage of the benefits of having dividends paid registrars: directly into a bank account, as well as supporting the work of St Dunstans, a mandate form can be obtained from our Equiniti Financial Services Limited website, by contacting Equiniti, or by using the one that would Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing have been attached to the tax voucher for the last dividend West Sussex BN99 6DA payment.
Alternatively, mandate instructions can be submitted United Kingdom via Shareview or, if the shareholding is held in a sole name, Telephone: 0871 384 2268 Equiniti can take instructions over the telephone.
Calls to the above number are charged at 8p per minute from Overseas shareholders can also arrange for dividends to be a BT landline.
Other telephony providers' costs may vary.
paid in their local currency and more information can be Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
com overseas Telephone number from outside the UK: 44 121 415 7058 Electronic shareholder communications Alternatively, a copy of the Terms and Conditions of the An increasing number of shareholders receive communications dividend reinvestment plan, along with the mandate form, from the Company using e-mail and web-based communications.
can be downloaded from our website.
com ShareGift Warning to shareholders boiler room scams The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity donation Many companies have become aware that their shareholders scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares which have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence may be uneconomic to sell.
Details of the scheme are concerning investment matters.
These are typically from available from ShareGift at www.
org or by telephone overseas-based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering on 020 7930 3737. to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are Share price information commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be The middle market price of the Company's ordinary shares very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey on 31 December 2010 was 330.0p and the range during the by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that the year was 294.7p to 388.8p.
average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
American Depositary Receipts It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this BAE Systems plc American Depositary Receipts ADRs are way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for traded on the Over The Counter market OTC under the several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of symbol BAESY.
One ADR represents four BAE Systems plc any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or ordinary shares.
offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. is the depositary.
investment advice: If you should have any queries, please contact: make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation: JPMorgan Chase & Co PO Box 64504 check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before St Paul getting involved by visiting www.
uk register and MN 55164-0504 contacting the firm using the details on the register: USA report the matter to the FSA either by calling Email: jpmorgan.
uk: and Telephone number for general queries: 800 990 1135 if the calls persist, hang up.
Telephone number from outside the US: 1 651 453 2128 If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the Consumer Financial Education Body website www.
uk Financial calendar Financial year end 31 December Annual General Meeting 4 May 2011 2010 final ordinary dividend payable 1 June 2011 2011 half-yearly results announcement 28 July 2011 2011 interim ordinary dividend payable 30 November 2011 2011 full year results preliminary announcement February 2012 report and accounts April 2012 2011 final ordinary dividend payable June 2012 BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 191 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview
