KSA Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
C4ISR Command, Control, Communications, LTA Lifetime Allowance.
Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance and LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan.
MEADS Medium Extended Air Defence System.
MRAP Mine Resistant Ambush Protected.
EBITA Earnings before amortisation and impairment MSMO Multi-Ship, Multi-Option.
of intangible assets, finance costs and OAS Operational Assurance Statement.
FMTV Family of Medium Tactical Vehicles.
RG31 Mine protected armoured personnel carrier.
FRES Future Rapid Effect System.
RSAF Royal Saudi Air Force.
RSNF Royal Saudi Naval Forces.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
SBDCP Saudi British Defence Co-operation Programme.
SDSR Strategic Defence and Security Review.
STOVL Short Take-Off and Vertical Landing.
IDIQ Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity.
IFRIC International Financial Reporting UAV Unmanned Air Vehicle.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard.
com BAE Systems at a glance BAE Systems is a global defence and security company with 1 BAE Systems, Inc. approximately 98,200 employees worldwide.
The Group delivers BAE Systems online a full range of products and services for air, land and naval forces, as well as advanced electronics, security, information technology Electronics, Intelligence Land & Armaments Programmes & Support International solutions and support services.
For the latest information on: & Support EI&S Get the latest investor Performance information online: Principal operations Principal operations Principal operations Principal operations Investor presentations Corporate responsibility EI&S provides a wide range of electronic Land & Armaments designs, develops, Programmes & Support primarily International comprises the Groups www.
com systems and subsystems for military and produces, supports and upgrades comprises the Groups UK-based air, businesses in Australia, India and 1,2, 3 1,3, 4 Plus, interactive features enabling you to: SALES BY OPERATING UNDERLYING EBITA commercial applications, technical and armoured combat vehicles, tactical maritime and Cyber & Intelligence Saudi Arabia, together with interests in KPI KPI Customise the homepage GROUP % BY OPERATING GROUP % professional services for US national wheeled vehicles, naval guns, missile activities.
the pan-European MBDA joint venture View the BAE Systems mobile site International International security and federal markets, and ship launchers, artillery systems, munitions and Air Astana.
Sign up for RSS feeds Electronics, Electronics, repair and modernisation services.
Intelligence Intelligence Sign up for e-mail alerts & Support & Support BAE Systems Saudi Arabia 20% 21% BAE Systems Australia 25% Electronic Solutions Global Combat Systems Military Air Solutions 29% BAeHAL Software 40% shareholding Intelligence & Security Global Tactical Systems BAESystems Surface Ships Defence Land Systems India Platform Solutions Security & Survivability Submarine Solutions 26% shareholding Support Solutions US Combat Systems Detica 29% 23% MBDA 37.5% interest 26% Products Group Integrated System Technologies 27% Air Astana 49% shareholding Programmes Land & Programmes Land & Main home markets Main home markets Main home markets Main home markets & Support Armaments & Support Armaments US US UK Australia UK UK India Saudi Arabia 3,5 ORDER BOOK BY OPERATING GROUP % Top 15 orders Remaining order book Land & Armaments Munitions Acquisition Supply Solution S Electronics, Intelligence & Support 3% 12% Land & Armaments 2010 online corporate 11% reporting benefits: Key points Key points Key points Key points Acquisitions of Atlantic Marine and Restructured to create a leaner, 537m Hawk India contract secured A further ten Typhoon aircraft The Annual Report 2010 is 41% OASYS Technology completed more responsive business to meet delivered under the Salam Third Type 45 destroyer accepted off accessible in pdf or interactive Programmes 11% & Support customers needs programme Central operating group contract and sixth launched format headquarters closed as part of the Net headcount reduced by 5,500 Typhoon operational capability being HMS Astute acceptance completed Search the Annual Report for key restructuring of BAESystems, Inc. including contractors provided under the support contract and second boat, Ambush, launched information and access links for Continued to perform on legacy Demand continues for land vehicle 157 Tactica vehicles accepted by the Nimrod MRA4 programme further information 14% programmes and secured several Readiness & Sustainment Saudi Arabia National Guard International terminated and Harrier to be taken 8% Corporate responsibility information strategic contract awards in new Continued progress in pursuit of out of service in 2011 following BAE Systems Australia selected is integrated into the Annual Report Programmes & Support markets supply chain efficiencies Strategic Defence and Security as Lockheed Martins partner for Queen Elizabeth Class International Access the Notice of Annual General US Army qualified IMX-101 as a Review SDSR maintenance and upgrade support Continued Mine Resistant Ambush Aircraft Carriers P 6 Saudi Typhoon Aircraft P Meeting and vote online safer and effective alternative for on the Australian F-35 programme Typhoon Tranche 3A Aircraft P Protected vehicle activity Continued rationalisation and Saudi Tornado Role Typhoon Tranche 2 Aircraft P the potential replacement of TNT Equipment P efficiency activity across the Defence Land Systems India Visit: www.
com reporting Astute Class Submarines P Landing Helicopter Dock P in artillery operating group and alignment Private Limited joint venture Tornado ATTAC S Saudi British Defence Strong ship repair performance ofcost base post SDSR became operational Type 45 Destroyers P Co-operation Programme S continued, with order intake totalling New to top 15 6 Typhoon Support S Saudi Typhoon Support S S Services $1bn 0.6bn in 2010 Hawk India Aircraft P Saudi Tornado Upgrade S P Platforms 1, 2 1 1, 2 1 1, 2 1 1, 2 1 Sales No.
of employees Shareholder feedback Production of this report If you would like to give us any feedback on this years The printer is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral company 1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Before elimination of intra-group sales.
5,653m 30,800 5,930m 16,100 6,680m 31,600 4,534m 17,200 Annual Report, please send your written comments to and its Environmental Management System is certified to 3 Excluding HQ & Other Businesses.
our investor relations team at: ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 4 Earnings before amortisation and impairment ofintangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items see page 37.
BAE Systems plc 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on 5 Including share of equity accounted investments order books and before the elimination of intra-group 6 Carlton Gardens average 99% of any waste associated with this production will orders of 1.5bn.
For more information or visit For more information or visit For more information or visit For more information or visit 6 The appropriate work share of the Saudi Typhoon Aircraft and Support contracts is reported within London SW1Y 5AD be recycled.
The papers are a combination of 100% and 50% p66 p68 p70 p72 Programmes & Support.
com businesses United Kingdom recycled fibre.
The pulp for each is bleached using an Elemental landarmaments programmessupport international or by e-mail to investors@baesystems.
com Chlorine Free ECF process.
All papers are FSC certified.
BAE Systems plc Annual Report 2010 BAE Systems plc Annual Report 2010 BAE Systems continues to build on its position as 6 Carlton Gardens London SW1Y 5AD one of the worlds largest and most geographically United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 1252 373232 diverse defence and security companies, focused Registered in England and Wales No.
1470151 on delivering sustainable growth in shareholder Website details www.
com value through its commitment to Total Performance.
For more information on the Groups key home markets p20 For more information visit our website: www.
com How we report corporate responsibility CR : This report includes a summary of the Groups corporate responsibility activities during the 2010 calendar year.
It focuses on our strategy, and performance in the key areas of business conduct, safety, diversity and inclusion, environment and community.
The report also includes case studies from our businesses around the world that demonstrate our approach in practice.
In this report: Total Performance Summary of our 2010 corporate responsibility performance Update on our approach to business conduct On our website: across our markets Our approach to CR Managing CR Reporting and assurance Safety stories from our businesses Education and early careers Training and development Support for local communities www.
com  Cover image: Cyber image sourced from istock.
