Other information 137 Glossary Capco ITZA Capco represents Capital & Counties Properties PLC also referred to as the In Terms of Zone A. ITZA is a method of calculating the oor area of a retail Company and all its subsidiary companies, together referred to as the Group.
unit with relation to the frontage and first 20 feet 6.1 metres of depth and the value relating to that oor area.
Capital Shopping Centres Group or CSC Capital Shopping Centres Group represents Capital Shopping Centres Group Liberty International PLC formerly Liberty International PLC and all its subsidiary companies.
Liberty International represents Liberty International PLC subsequently renamed Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC and all its subsidiary Diluted gures companies.
Reported amounts adjusted to include the effects of potential shares issuable under employee incentive arrangements.
Like-for-like properties Investment properties which have been owned throughout both periods ECOA without significant capital expenditure in either period, so income can be The Earls Court and West Kensington Opportunity Area.
For the purposes of comparison of capital values, this will also include assets owned at the previous balance sheet date EPRA but not necessarily throughout the prior period.
European Public Real Estate Association, the publisher of Best Practice Recommendations intended to make financial statements of public real estate Loantovalue LTV companies in Europe clearer, more transparent and comparable.
LTV is the ratio of attributable debt to the market value of an investment property.
EPRA adjusted, diluted NAV The net assets as at the end of the year including the excess of the fair value Net rental income of trading property over its cost and excluding the fair value of financial The Groups share gross rental income less ground rents, payable service instruments, deferred taxation on revaluations and diluting for the effect of charge expenses and other non-recoverable charges, having taken due those shares potentially issuable under employee share schemes divided by account of bad debt provisions and adjustments to comply with International the diluted number of shares at year end.
Financial Reporting Standards regarding tenant lease incentives.
EPRA adjusted, diluted NNNAV Nominal equivalent yield EPRA diluted NAV adjusted to reect the fair value of derivatives and to Effective annual yield to a purchaser from the assets individually at market include deferred taxation on revaluations.
value after taking account of notional acquisition costs, assuming rent is receivable annually in arrears, and that the property becomes fully occupied EPRA adjusted earnings per share and that all rents revert to the current market level ERV at the next review profit for the year excluding gains or losses on the revaluation and sale date or lease expiry.
of investment and development property, write down on trading property, changes in fair value of financial instruments and associated close-out costs Occupancy rate EPRA and the related taxation on these items divided by the weighted average The ERV of let and under offer units expressed as a percentage of the ERV number of shares in issue during the period.
of let and under offer units plus ERV of un-let units, excluding units under development.
ERV estimated rental value The external valuers estimate of the Groups share of the current annual Passing rent market rent of all lettable space net of any non-recoverable charges, before The Groups share of contracted annual rents receivable at the balance bad debt provision and adjustments required by International Financial sheet date.
This takes no account of accounting adjustments made in respect Reporting Standards regarding tenant lease incentives.
of rent-free periods or tenant incentives, the reclassication of certain lease payments as finance charges or any irrecoverable costs and expenses, and Gross income does not include excess turnover rent, additional rent in respect of unsettled The Groups share of passing rent plus sundry non-leased income.
rent reviews or sundry income such as from car parks etc.
Contracted annual rents in respect of tenants in administration are excluded.
Interest cover ratio ICR Net rental income less administration costs divided by the net finance cost Pro forma excluding the change in fair value of derivatives and any exceptional The pro forma basis as outlined on page 140 of the Groups prospectus finance costs.
Interest rate swap REIT A derivative financial instrument enabling parties to exchange interest rate Real Estate Investment Trust.
These are used by the Group to convert oating rate debt to xed rates.
Section 34A Housing Act 1985 An amendment to the 1985 Act to enable tenants to take control of the Initial yield EPRA management of their properties.
The amendment establishes a procedure Annualised net rent after deduction of revenue costs such as head rent, enabling an organised group of tenants to require a local authority to running void, service charge after shortfalls and empty rates on investment transfer their homes to a housing association or similar body registered with properties expressed as a percentage of the gross market value before the Tenant Services Authority the social housing regulator.
Tenants may deduction of theoretical acquisition costs, consistent with EPRAs net initial yield.
form such a body and seek the transfer of the property to that body.
The legislation only applies to social rented tenants of local authorities.
It does IPD not apply to tenants of housing associations even where the ultimate owner Investment Property Databank Ltd, producer of an independent benchmark may be a local authority.
Section 34A requires implementation by regulations of property returns.
These regulations will be enacted by the Department Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Other information 138 Glossary of Communities and Local Government.
No regulations have yet been made, although it is anticipated that draft regulations will be issued in spring 2011 in the form of a consultation document.
Tenant or lease incentives Any incentives offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically incentives are in the form of an initial rent-free period and or a cash contribution to t-out the premises.
Under International Financial Reporting Standards the value of incentives granted to tenants is amortised through the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease team.
Underlying profit profit for the year excluding impairment charges, net valuation gains losses including profits losses on disposals, net renancing charges and swap termination costs.
Weighted average unexpired lease The unexpired lease term to lease expiry weighted by ERV for each lease.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
