DTR disclosure in the area of corporate responsibility on behalf of The disclosures required under DTR 7.2 of the the Board.
The Committee met once during 2010.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules are contained in Attendance at this meeting is shown in Table 2. this report and the Audit Committee Report, except The Groups corporate responsibility activities for information required under DTR 7.2.
6 which is are described on pages 57 to 60. contained in the Directors Report on pages 54 to 56.
Communication with Shareholders By order of the Board Communication with the Companys investors is a priority for the Board.
The Company has an extensive investor relations programme, and during the period the Chief Executive and Finance Director held many meetings with the Companys major shareholders which discussed the Groups strategy and explained progress made across its estates.
Numerous tours of the Groups assets with investors I. C. Durant and analysts were also held.
During the period the Chairman Chairman and Senior Independent Director offered 2 March 2011 to meet with, and introduce Henry Staunton to, the Companys major institutional shareholders.
The Chairman met several of the Companys South African investors during a recent visit.
The Directors receive regular updates on changes to the Companys shareholders, and receive reports on shareholder feedback at each Board meeting.
The Non-executive Directors also have the opportunity to attend the Companys results presentations.
The Chairman and Chairmen of the Board Committees will be available at the AGM to meet shareholders and answer any questions.
Should shareholders be unable to successfully resolve concerns following contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director, they may raise them through the Senior Independent Director.
The Company has undertaken to consult with its major shareholders before implementing any changes to its remuneration structure.
Going concern A statement on going concern is set out on page 56.
Annual General Meeting The notice of Annual General Meeting will be issued to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions will be proposed on each separate issue.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Governance 66 Corporate governance Table 3 Provision Details of non-compliance Explanation On appointment the Chairman did The Board appointed on demerger A.
2.2 not meet the independence criteria was felt to offer continuity to set out in A.
The Liberty International board considered Ian Durant to be the most appropriate candidate for the role due to his corporate experience and good knowledge of the Groups business as Finance Director of Liberty International at the time.
At least half the Board did not comprise The Board appointed on demerger A.
3.2 independent Non-executive Directors was felt to offer continuity to shareholders and to remove the risk of introducing a number of new Directors to the Company within a short period of time.
Immediately following the demerger a search was initiated for an additional independent Non-executive Director who would be appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Following the appointment of Henry Staunton, and the resignation of David Fischel, the Company is now compliant with this provision.
From demerger until 17 December The Committee appointed on B.
2.1 2010, the Remuneration Committee demerger was felt to offer continuity did not comprise solely independent to shareholders.
From demerger until 1 July 2010, the Given his significant recent financial C. 3.1 Audit Committee did not comprise experience as Finance Director of solely independent Non-executive Liberty International, Ian Durant was Directors, and was Chaired by the appointed as interim Chairman of Chairman.
the Audit Committee on demerger.
Ian Durant stepped down from the Committee following the appointment of Henry Staunton to the Committee on 1 July 2010.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
