Financial statements 90 Notes to the accounts Revenue recognition Temporary differences are not provided on the initial recognition of assets or liabilities Share-based payments that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments Provisions in subsidiaries to the extent that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Pensions Contingent liabilities and capital commitments Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially Income tax enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related Trade and other receivables deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Derivative financial instruments Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that management believes it Operating segments is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary Management has determined the operating segments with reference to reports on differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only when they relate to taxes levied by the same authority and the Group intends to settle them divisional financial performance and position which are regularly reviewed by the Chief Executive, who is deemed to be the chief operating decision maker.
Foreign currencies Tax is included in the income statement except when it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income, or directly in equity, in which case the related tax is also Transactions in currencies other than the Companys functional currency are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing at the transaction date.
Foreign exchange gains recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
and losses resulting from settlement of these transactions and from retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in Share-based payments The cost of granting share options and other share-based remuneration to employees the income statement except for differences arising on the retranslation of available for sale investments which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
and Directors is recognised through the income statement with reference to the fair value of the instrument at the date of grant.
The income statement is charged over the Revenue recognition vesting period of the options.
Property rental income and exhibition income consists of gross income calculated on an accruals basis, together with services where the Group acts as principal in the ordinary An option pricing model is used applying assumptions around expected yields, forfeiture rates, exercise price and volatility.
course of business, excluding sales of investment properties.
Rental income receivable is spread evenly over the period from lease commencement to lease expiry.
Own shares held in connection with employee share plans and other share-based Lease incentive payments, including surrender premiums paid which enhance rental payment arrangements are treated as treasury shares and deducted from equity.
income, are amortised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Upon receipt of a surrender premium for the early termination of a lease, the profit and non-recoverable Impairment of financial assets An annual review is conducted for financial assets to determine whether there is any outgoings relating to the lease concerned are immediately reected in income.
evidence of a loss event as described by IAS 39.
Where there is objective evidence of impairment the amount of any loss is calculated by estimating future cash ows or Contingent rents, being those lease payments that are not xed at the inception of a lease, for example increases arising on rent reviews, are recorded as income in the by using fair value where this is available through observable market prices.
periods in which they are earned.
Investment and development property Rent reviews are recognised as income, based on managements estimates, when it Investment and development properties are owned or leased by the Group and is reasonable to assume they will be received.
Estimates are derived from knowledge held for long-term rental income and capital appreciation and exclude properties of market rents for comparable properties determined on an individual property basis occupied by the Group.
and updated for progress of negotiations.
The Group has chosen to use the fair value model.
Properties are initially recognised at Where revenue is obtained by the sale of properties, it is recognised when the cost and subsequently revalued at the balance sheet date to fair value as determined significant risks and returns have been transferred to the buyer.
This will normally take by professionally qualied external valuers on the basis of market value.
The valuation place on exchange of contracts unless there are conditions attached.
For conditional is based upon assumptions including market rent or business profitability, future growth, exchanges, sales are recognised when these conditions are satisfied.
anticipated maintenance costs, development costs and an appropriate discount rate where possible applying yields based on known transactions for similar properties and Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding likely incentives offered to tenants.
These assumptions conform with Royal Institution of and the effective interest rate.
Chartered Surveyors RICS valuation standards.
Dividend income is recognised when the relevant Group companys right to receive Incentive assets are adjusted for against the fair value of properties to which they are payment has been established.
Exceptional items Properties held under leases are stated gross of the recognised finance lease liability.
Exceptional items are those items that in the Directors view are required to be separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence to enable a full understanding The cost of development properties includes capitalised interest and other directly of the Groups financial performance.
These are excluded from the calculation of attributable outgoings, except in the case of properties and land where no underlying earnings.
development is imminent, in which case no interest is included.
Interest is capitalised before tax relief on the basis of the average rate of interest paid on the relevant Income taxes debt outstanding, until the date of practical completion.
Current tax is the amount payable on the taxable income for the year and any adjustment in respect of prior years.
It is calculated using rates that have been When the Group redevelops an existing investment property for continued future use as an enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
investment property, the property remains an investment property measured at fair value.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method in respect of Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment and development temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the property are recognised in the income statement of the period in which they arise.
financial statements and the amounts used in computation of taxable profit, with the Depreciation is not provided in respect of investment properties including plant and exception of deferred tax on revaluation surpluses where the tax basis used is the equipment integral to such investment properties.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
