Governance 64 Corporate governance 2.5 Board Committees 6b`` ggXX gXe`f bY eXYXeXaVX The Board has established Audit, Remuneration, afg ghg baT aiXfgbe ibg aZ eXcbegf Nomination and Corporate Responsibility Committees.
F[TeX fV[X`Xf TaW %#$# cXeYbe`TaVX gTeZXgf The terms of each Committee are available on the 4jTeW bY f[TeX bcg baf TaW `TgV[ aZ f[TeXf Companys website www.
6[T e`Ta TaW 6[ XY 8kXVhg iXf XkcXafXf The activity of each Committee is described below.
4aahT Ubahf fgehVgheX TaW Tcc VTg ba TVebff the Group a Audit Committee 8kXVhg iX 7 eXVgbe eX`haXeTg ba TaW gTeZXgf As at 31 December 2010 and the date of this report, the Audit Committee comprised Henry Staunton A full Directors Remuneration Report is set out on Chairman, Ian Henderson and Andrew Strang.
Given his significant recent financial experience as Finance Director of Liberty International, Ian Durant c Nomination Committee was appointed interim Chairman of the Committee As at 31 December 2010 and the date of this report, on demerger.
A search for an additional independent the Nomination Committee comprised Ian Durant Non-executive Director who would be appointed Chairman, Ian Hawksworth, Ian Henderson, as Chairman of the Audit Committee was initiated Andrew Huntley and Andrew Strang.
Ian Durant stepped down from the Committee following the The Nomination Committee has responsibility for appointment of Henry Staunton to the Committee making recommendations on Board appointments on 1 July 2010.
Henry Staunton is considered to have and succession to the Board.
The Nomination significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
Committee met once formally during the period to recommend the appointment of Henry Staunton to The Audit Committee will meet four times a year the Board.
Attendance at this meeting is shown in with meetings timed around the financial calendar.
Korn Ferry International were engaged to During 2010 three meetings were held as the Company identify suitable candidates for the position of listed in May.
Attendance at meetings held during Audit Committee Chairman.
A full report from the Audit Committee is set out on pages 67 to 69.
David Fischels decision to step down from the Board in February 2011 means that the Board now b Remuneration Committee meets the composition requirements of the UK As at 31 December 2010 and the date of this report, the Corporate Governance Code: however the Remuneration Committee comprised Ian Henderson Committee has due regard for the need to ensure Chairman, Andrew Huntley, Henry Staunton and that the Board has the appropriate balance of skills, Andrew Strang.
To ensure continuity following the and for the benets of greater diversity.
demerger, David Fischel was appointed to the Committee on demerger, and stepped down on the Following the Board effectiveness review, the appointment of Henry Staunton to the Committee Committee met early in 2011 to consider Board on 17 December 2010. composition and succession planning.
The Chairman has met potential Non-executive The Remuneration Committee has responsibility Directors on an informal basis and updated the for setting Executive Director remuneration and Board on progress.
bonuses, and oversight of senior staffs remuneration.
The Committee is advised by independent consultants, d Corporate Responsibility Committee Kepler Associates.
The Committee met three times As at 31 December 2010 and the date of this report, during 2010 and met early in 2011 to approve the Corporate Responsibility Committee comprised bonuses for 2010 and set targets for 2011.
Attendance Ian Henderson Chairman, Ian Durant and at meetings held during 2010 is shown in Table 2.
Matters considered by the Committee during the period include: The Corporate Responsibility Committee has responsibility for overseeing the Groups activities Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
