Governance 72 Directors remuneration report The financial performance element for the year For 2010 the inception year of Capco, Executives ended 31 December 2010 and for this coming year were invited to invest up to 150 per cent of salary was based on absolute Total Return, Total Property into the Companys shares during the first 12 Return relative to the IPD Total Return All Property months of inception in return for the opportunity Index and adjusted EPS.
In determining the annual to receive up to two shares for each share purchased, targets for these measures, the Committee recognised subject to three year performance.
The initial the medium-term nature of the Companys strategy, investment period may be extended to 24 months particularly with regard to its land holdings at at the Committees discretion.
This initial higher Earls Court, and the extent to which this would be matching level is intended to help kick-start the reected in these measures on a 12-month horizon.
plan by ensuring Executives are highly motivated The Committee decided that the key measures were to drive the long-term performance of Capco.
absolute Total Return and relative Total Property Return.
Both of these measures were signicantly 5 Performance Share Plan PSP exceeded.
EPS performance was between budget and Executives are eligible to receive awards under the PSP at the stretch target and accordingly a portion of this the discretion of the Committee.
Each year participants component paid out.
may be granted share options of up to 300 per cent of salary or up to 150 per cent of salary in shares which The individual performance element for the year vest subject to three year performance.
Details of the ended 31 December 2010 was based on certain performance conditions are provided in the next section.
The individual targets for the Executive Directors encompassed all relevant In exceptional circumstances the Committee can aspects of the business including the establishment make awards of share options of up to 400 per cent of Capco as an independent entity, specic business of salary or up to 200 per cent of salary in shares.
In objectives relating to the assets and CR matters.
2011 the Committee is considering making awards The Executive Directors were each considered to have in nil-cost options, in lieu of shares, to Executive delivered a very strong performance, particularly Directors of 150 per cent of salary.
overseeing the demerger and establishing Capco in its first year.
The Committee is also considering the possibility of structuring future awards under the long-term The maximum bonus opportunity for Executive incentive arrangements in a potentially more taxDirectors is 150 per cent of annual salary with a efficient manner for participants.
The Committee will bonus of 75 per cent of salary payable for achieving ensure that any changes are cost neutral to Capco.
50 per cent of any bonus earned is payable in cash and 50 per cent is deferred 4.
Long-term incentive performance conditions in Capco shares for three years, subject to risk of The performance conditions are the same for both forfeiture should an Executive leave the Company.
the MSP and PSP and comprise two measures: 3-year relative Total Return TR, growth in Net Summary of Executive Director bonuses 2010 Asset Value per share plus dividends and three year Executive Cash Deferred Total relative Total Shareholder Return TSR.
Awards are Director shares weighted equally, i. e. 50 per cent, on performance Ian Hawksworth 329,062 329,063 658,125 against each of these measures.
For 2010 awards, Gary Yardley 292,500 292,500 585,000 Capco performance is measured relative to a Soumen Das 219,375 219,375 438,750 comparator group which comprises the eight largest FTSE 350 property companies, as listed below.
4 Matching Share Plan MSP 2010 TR and TSR comparators There is an opportunity for Executives to earn up to one matching share for each deferred share awarded British Land Land Securities under the arrangements above, based on performance Capital Shopping Centres Great Portland Estates over three years.
Details of the performance conditions Derwent London Segro are provided in the long-term incentive performance Hammerson Shaftesbury conditions section below.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
