Financial statements 91 When the use of a property changes from that of trading property to investment Disposals are recorded upon distribution, at which time accumulated fair value property, such property is transferred at fair value, with any resulting gain being adjustments are recycled from reserves to the income statement.
recognised as property trading profit.
Trade and other receivables Investment properties cease recognition as investment property either when they have Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently been disposed of or when they are permanently withdrawn from use and no future measured at amortised cost.
The Directors exercise judgement as to the collectability economic benefit is expected from their disposal.
Where the Group disposes of a of the Groups trade and other receivables and determine when it is appropriate to property at fair value in an arms length transaction the carrying value immediately impair these assets.
Factors such as days past due, credit status of the counterparty prior to the sale is adjusted to the transaction price, offset by any directly attributable and historical evidence of collection are considered.
costs, and the adjustment is recorded in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are recognised at fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents Leases Leases are classied according to the substance of the transaction.
A lease that comprise cash on hand, deposits with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee is classied as a finance lease.
All other leases are normally classied as operating leases.
Derivatives financial instruments Group as a lessee: The Group uses non-trading derivative financial instruments to manage exposure to interest rate risk.
These instruments have not been designated as qualifying for In accordance with IAS 40, finance and operating leases of investment property are accounted for as finance leases and recognised as an asset and an obligation to hedge accounting.
They are initially recognised on the trade date at fair value and subsequently remeasured at fair value based on market price.
Changes in fair value pay future minimum lease payments.
The investment property asset is included in the balance sheet at fair value, gross of the recognised finance lease liability.
Lease are recognised directly in the income statement.
payments are allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant nancing rate.
Trade payables Trade payables are obligations for goods or services acquired in the ordinary course Other finance leased assets are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the of business.
Trade payables are recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost until settled.
leased asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the useful life of the asset.
Dividend distribution Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a Dividend distributions to shareholders are recognised as a liability once approved by shareholders.
straight-line basis over the lease term.
Provisions Group as lessor: Assets leased out under finance leases are recognised as receivables at the amount Provisions are recognised when the Group has a current obligation arising from a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
of the Groups net investment in the leases.
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reect a constant rate of return on the net investment.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle that obligation at the balance sheet date.
Assets leased out under operating leases are included in investment property, with rental income recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at their net proceeds on issue and subsequently Trading property carried at amortised cost.
Any transaction costs, premiums or discounts are Trading property comprises those properties that in the Directors view are expected capitalised and recognised over the contractual life using the effective interest to be disposed of within one year of the balance sheet date.
In the event of early repayment all unamortised transaction costs are transferred from investment property at fair value which forms its deemed cost.
recognised immediately in the income statement.
Subsequently it is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Share capital Plant and equipment Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to Plant and equipment consists of xtures, ttings and other ofce equipment.
Plant and the issue of ordinary shares are recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated tax effects.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset plus any attributable cost in bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Pensions Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over an The costs of the dened contribution scheme and the Groups personal pension plans assets estimated useful life to a maximum of five years.
are charged against profits in the year in which they fall due.
Investment in Group companies Past service costs and current service costs of the dened benefit scheme are Investment in Group companies, which is eliminated on consolidation, is stated in recognised immediately in income.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience the Companys separate financial statements at cost less impairment losses, if any.
adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity Impairment losses are determined with reference to the investments fair value less in other comprehensive income for the period in which they arise.
The dened benefit estimated selling costs.
Fair value is derived from the subsidiarys net assets at the obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit balance sheet date.
On disposal, the difference between the net disposal proceeds credit method and applying assumptions which are agreed between the Group and and its carrying amount is included in profit or loss.
Investments Contingent liabilities and capital commitments Available for sale investments, being investments intended to be held for an indefinite Contingent liabilities are not recognised due to lack of certainty with respect to period, are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value.
measurement of the potential future liability.
A description of the nature and, where possible, an estimate of the financial effect of contingent liabilities is disclosed.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of available for sale investments are included in other comprehensive income, except to the extent that losses are determined to Capital commitments are disclosed when the Group has a contractual future be attributable to impairment, in which case they are recognised in the income statement.
obligation which has not been provided for at the balance sheet date.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
