Other information 131 The demerger Introduction 2010 demerger share values The Capital & Counties Properties PLC Group the Group demerged from its former parent company, Liberty International PLC subsequently renamed Base cost of post-demerger shares for UK capital gains Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC, with effect from 7 May 2010.
Capital tax purposes & Counties Properties PLC has a premium listing on the ofcial list of the UK tax resident shareholders should read Part A of Part VI of the Liberty UKLA, and a secondary inward listing on the JSE Limited, with South African International PLC Circular dated 12 March 2010 pages 55 to 56 inclusive institutional shareholders given two years until May 2012 to realign their in full.
Shareholders who are in any doubt about their tax position or how portfolios.
Shares in Capital & Counties Properties PLC were admitted to to use the share values in this circular should consult their own professional dealings on the London and Johannesburg Stock Exchanges in May 2010. tax advisers.
2009 historic financial information Following the demerger, UK shareholders will need to apportion the The demerger documents and pro forma information were prepared as is base cost for UK capital gains tax purposes of their pre-demerger Liberty required in such situations to illustrate the Groups financial performance International PLC shares between their post-demerger Capital & Counties and its position as if the demerged group and capital structure had existed Properties PLC shares and their post-demerger Capital Shopping Centres at 31 December 2009.
On such pro forma basis, taking into account a cash Group PLC shares.
The apportionment is made by reference to the value of transfer from Liberty International of 244 million, the Groups net assets as Capital & Counties Properties PLC and Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC at 31 December 2009 were 731 million.
This represented an adjusted pro shares on 10 May 2010 in accordance with the provisions of Section 272 forma net asset value per share of 127 pence.
of the Taxation and Chargeable Gains Act 1992, and so the base cost will be split Capital & Counties Properties PLC 25.7198% and Capital Shopping Therefore, for the purposes of preparing pro forma financial statements, net Centres Group PLC 74.2802%.
finance costs were adjusted to exclude those charges arising on intragroup debt due to Liberty International and included a pro forma allocation of The share prices on the London Stock Exchange on 10 May 2010 being the administration costs likely to be incurred by the Group once operating on a relevant date were: Capital & Counties Properties PLC 119.25 pence: and standalone basis.
Likewise, intragroup balances due to Liberty International Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 344.40 pence.
were disclosed as a component of invested capital rather than third party debt.
South African capital gains tax on demerger These adjustments were made for comparability in the demerger documents.
South African tax resident shareholders should read Part B of Part VI of However they lead to certain differences when applying the principles of the Liberty International PLC Circular dated 12 March 2010 pages 57 to 58 merger accounting as outlined in note 1 Basis of Preparation, and after inclusive in full.
Shareholders who are in any doubt about their tax position taking into account the change in the Groups capital structure on demerger or how to use the share values in this announcement should consult their own as discussed below.
A reconciliation at 31 December 2009 between the balance sheet and For shareholders that hold their shares on capital account, on 10 May 2010, income statement reported within the Groups demerger documents with there will be a part disposal for South African capital gains tax purposes of the that reported within these consolidated financial statements prepared under South African shareholders pre-demerger Liberty International PLC shares.
International Financial Reporting Standards follows.
A South African shareholders capital gain or loss on this part disposal is Capital structure calculated as proceeds from the issue of shares by Capital & Counties On demerger the Groups parent company Capital & Counties Properties Properties PLC, less a proportion of the capital gains tax base cost of the PLC issued 621.
8 million 80 pence ordinary shares to the former Liberty Liberty International PLC ordinary shares held by them.
Proceeds for the part International shareholders, on a one-for-one basis, who were registered disposal will be calculated as the opening share price of Capital & Counties holders of ordinary shares at close on 7 May 2010.
Properties PLC on 10 May 2010 multiplied by the number of shares issued in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 76A of the Eighth Schedule As consideration, stock transfer certicates pertaining to the Groups now to the Income Tax Act, Act 58 of 1962, as amended.
The amount of the subsidiary undertakings were registered in the name of Capital & Counties capital gains tax base cost of the Liberty International PLC shares which is Properties PLC.
Shares issued in consideration for investments in subsidiary apportioned to the part disposal will be calculated by taking account of the undertakings represent a share-for-share exchange under S612 of the opening share price of Capital & Counties Properties PLC on 10 May 2010 Companies Act 2006.
Qualifying for relief under S612 sheltered the group from as a proportion of the value of the closing share price of Liberty International recognising share premium on the difference between the nominal value of PLC shares on 7 May 2010. the shares issued and the fair value of the assets received with this premium instead being taken to a Merger Reserve.
In addition, the Group assumed The relevant prices on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange were: Liberty all intragroup debt owed by its now subsidiary undertakings to Liberty International PLC Rand 51.
50 on 7 May 2010: and Capital & Counties International.
Shares attributed to these assets did not qualify for relief therefore Properties PLC Rand 14.35 on 10 May 2010. the difference between the nominal value of shares issued and the fair value of the assets received was credited to the Companys Share Premium Reserve.
The information contained above is correct to the best knowledge and belief of Capital & Counties Properties PLC but does not constitute tax advice.
Capital & Upon demerger a number of reserves were realised and pro forma Counties Properties PLC does not accept any liability which may arise from use of adjustments, which had been made for comparability as discussed above, the information contained above.
Each shareholder is solely responsible for the were then reversed.
information he or she provides to tax authorities and other ofcial bodies.
If uncertain, shareholders including shareholders outside the United Kingdom Finally, on 18 May 2010 a capital reduction became effective.
The reduction in and South Africa should consult their own appropriate professional adviser.
capital was effected by reducing the nominal value of each ordinary share on issue from 80 pence per share to 25 pence per share, creating distributable reserves for the Company and reducing its capital account by 342 million.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
