Elements of Executive Director remuneration remuneration includes base salary, benets and Details of Executive Directors 2010 emoluments pension.
Variable remuneration includes an annual and their interests in each incentive plan are bonus, a proportion of which is deferred in shares provided in tables a to d on pages 76 and 77. which may be matched subject to long-term A description of each key element of the performance via the Matching Share Plan MSP, remuneration package is provided below.
and annual awards under a Performance Share Plan PSP which rewards long-term performance.
1 Base salary and benets The Remuneration Policy is also aligned to the Base salaries were reviewed during the year with strategy and nature of the Company, reecting the reference to 16 companies which included all importance of total return and the long-term nature eight companies in the comparator group used for of Capcos business.
the long-term incentive plans, each Executives performance and contribution during the year and In 2010 the Committee approved an incentive bonus due regard to pay across the Group.
The policy is to scheme for head office employees which will be place appropriate emphasis on the  in 2011 and further aligns the related elements of remuneration, while ensuring potential total remuneration of all staff with the base salary remains competitive.
financial and corporate objectives of the Group.
No increases in base salary have been awarded to The Committee has considered whether there are the Executive Directors for 2011.
This is consistent any aspects of the Remuneration Policy which could with the approach taken across head office, where inadvertently encourage Executives to take payrises have been awarded only to lower paid inappropriate risks, and has concluded that the employees or by exception.
policy remains appropriate in this regard.
Summary of Executive Director base salaries, 2010 and 2011 The chart below highlights the relatively strong Executive 2010 2011 % Date of emphasis on variable pay within each Executive Director salary salary increase increase Directors remuneration.
Ian Hawksworth 450,000 450,000 nil n a Gary Yardley 400,000 400,000 nil n a Executive Director target pay mix Fair values Soumen Das 300,000 300,000 nil n a The Company provides benets which include private healthcare, life insurance and a cash car allowance.
2 Pension The Company operates a dened contribution pension scheme with a company contribution of 24 per cent of base salary for Executive Directors.
Fixed The Executive Directors may elect to be paid some Annual bonus MSP or all of this entitlement in cash.
PSP 3 Annual bonus includes deferred bonus Bonuses may be earned by Executive Directors Note: elements of variable pay have been valued on a fair value basis depending on Company financial 50 per cent and individual 50 per cent performance, as illustrated below.
Summary of annual bonus structure Financial Individual Annual bonus performance performance Up to 50% of maximum Up to 50% of maximum Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
