Financial statements 118 Notes to the accounts 37 Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation for the Group.
significant transactions between the Parent Company and its subsidiaries are shown below: 2010 2009 Subsidiary Nature of transaction m m Capital & Counties Limited Assignment of investment on demerger 444.4 Capital & Counties Asset Management Limited Assignment of investment on demerger 1.1 C&C Management Services Limited Assignment of investment on demerger 1.0 Capco Group Treasury Limited Assignment of loan on demerger 281.3 Capco Group Treasury Limited Interest 2.7 significant balances outstanding between the Parent Company and its subsidiaries are shown below: Amounts owed Amounts owed by subsidiaries to subsidiaries 2010 2009 2010 2009 Subsidiary m m m m Capco Group Treasury Limited 277.2 The amount due from Capco Group Treasury Limited is unsecured, interest bearing at the Bank of England base rate plus one per cent and repayable on demand.
2010 2009 1 Key management compensation m m Salaries and short-term employee benets 4.2 1.6 Pensions and other post-employment benets 0.3 0.2 Share-based payments 0.5 5.0 1.8 1 Key management comprises the Directors of Capital & Counties Properties PLC and those Group employees who have been designated as Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities.
PDMR Full-year remuneration is included in the table for key management employed by C&C Management Services Limited, a subsidiary of the Company which is the employing company for head ofce employees, prior to demerger.
For Key Management who joined Capco from Liberty International on demerger, only post-demerger remuneration is included.
Gains on exercises of Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC share options which were re-invested in Capco shares are not included.
38 Directors emoluments The details of individual Directors remuneration and pension benets as set out in the tables contained in the Directors remuneration report on pages 70 to 77 form part of these financial statements.
39 Share-based payment The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes relating to employee benets and incentives.
All schemes are equity settled, as such the cost recognised relates to the fair value of equity instruments determined at the grant date of the instruments.
The expense is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on Group estimates of the number of shares that are expected to vest.
A reconciliation of movements in incentive schemes is given in the table opposite.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
