Financial statements 89 Notes to the accounts Group reorganisation 1 Principal accounting policies All Capital & Counties Properties PLC group companies which were owned and controlled by Liberty International PLC prior to the demerger were transferred under General information the new ultimate Parent Company, Capital & Counties Properties PLC, prior to The Capital & Counties Properties PLC Group demerged from its parent company, 7 May 2010.
The introduction of this new ultimate holding company constitutes a Liberty International PLC subsequently renamed Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC, group reconstruction.
Shares in Capital & Counties Properties PLC were admitted to dealings on the London and Johannesburg Stock Exchanges in May The transaction falls outside the scope of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The Groups assets principally comprise investment properties at Covent Accordingly, following the guidance regarding the selection of an appropriate Garden: Earls Court & Olympia: a 50 per cent interest in the Empress State building: accounting policy provided in IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting and a 50 per cent interest in The Great Capital Partnership, a joint venture focused Estimates and Errors, the transaction has been accounted for in these financial predominantly on Londons West End.
statements using the principles of merger accounting with reference to UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
This policy, which does not Capital & Counties Properties PLC was incorporated and registered in England conict with IFRS, reects the economic substance of the transaction.
and Wales on 3 February 2010 under the Companies Act as a public company limited by shares with registration number 7145051.
The registered ofce Therefore, although the Group reconstruction did not become unconditional until of the Company is 15 Grosvenor Street, London, W1K 4QZ.
The principal 7 May 2010, these financial statements are presented as if the Group structure activity of the Company is to act as the ultimate parent company of Capital & has always been in place.
For further details on the demerger refer to page 131 Counties Properties PLC Group, whose principal activity is the development and in Other information.
Going concern basis Basis of preparation The Directors are satisfied that the Group has the resources to continue in The Groups consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with operational existence for the foreseeable future, for this reason the consolidated International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
Union, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to Basis of consolidation companies reporting under IFRS.
The Companys financial statements cover the These accounts include the consolidation of the following limited partnerships: period from incorporation to 31 December 2010, therefore references appearing Capital & Counties CGP, Capital & Counties CGP 9 and Capco CGP 2010 in these financial statements to the year ended should, for the Company, be LP.
The members of these qualifying partnerships have taken advantage of read as being for the period ended.
The Directors have taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available in Statutory Instrument 2008 569 and therefore exemption offered by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present a will not produce consolidated accounts at the partnership level.
separate income statement for the Parent Company.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in British pounds sterling The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical which is determined to be the functional currency of the Parent.
cost convention as modied for the revaluation of properties, available for sale investments and financial assets held for trading.
Subsidiaries Subsidiary undertakings are fully consolidated from the date on which the Standards and guidelines relevant to the Group that were in issue and endorsed Group is deemed to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity, at the date of approval of the consolidated financial statements but not yet whether through a majority of the voting rights or otherwise.
They cease to be effective and have not been adopted early: consolidated from the date this control is lost.
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures revised All intragroup balances resulting from intragroup transactions are eliminated in full.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation amendment IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards amendment Any proportion of a subsidiarys income statement and net assets not held by IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement amendment the Group are presented separately as non-controlling interests within these IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments consolidated financial statements.
The assessment of new standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not Joint ventures effective are not anticipated to have a material impact on the financial statements.
The Groups interest in jointly controlled entities is accounted for using proportional consolidation.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income During 2010, the following accounting standards and guidance were adopted and expenses is combined with the equivalent items in the consolidated financial by the Group: statements on a line-by-line basis.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements amendment IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures are reviewed at least annually for IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items impairment.
Where there exists an indication of impairment an assessment of IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards revised the recoverable amount is performed.
The recoverable amount is based on the IFRS 2 Share-based Payment revised higher of the investments continued value in use or its fair value less cost to sell: IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised fair value is derived from the entities net asset value at the balance sheet date.
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 15 Agreements for Construction of Real Estates Estimation and uncertainty IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, Collectively, together with the International Accounting Standards Boards annual event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The most improvements, these pronouncements either had no impact on the consolidated significant area of estimation and uncertainty in the consolidated set of financial financial statements or resulted in changes to presentation and disclosure only.
statements is in respect of the valuation of the property portfolio and investments, where external valuations are obtained.
Other areas of estimation and uncertainty are included within the accounting policies below.
The more significant being: Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
