Governance 61 Corporate governance I am pleased to introduce the first Corporate Governance Report of Capital & Counties Properties PLC.
The Board is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance, and this report describes how the Board has applied the principles of good governance set out in the Combined Code during the seven months to 31 December 2010 since its listing as a public company.
Statement of Compliance with the Combined 2.
Board Code on Corporate Governance 2008 2.1 Composition of Board Other than as set out below, the Company has complied The Board is responsible to shareholders for the with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined strategy, control and management of the Group: its Code on Corporate Governance 2008 since demerger.
primary role is to provide leadership and to review As described within this report, the Board did not the strategic development of the Group.
As at 31 comply with the provision that the Chairman should December 2010 the Board comprised the Chairman, be considered to be independent on appointment, three Executive Directors and five Non-executive the provision regarding the number of independent Directors.
The Chairman is Ian Durant, the Chief Non-executive Directors, or, for part of the period, Executive is Ian Hawksworth and the Deputy the provisions regarding the composition of the Chairman and Senior Independent Director is Remuneration and Audit Committees.
David Fischels decision to step down from the Board in February 2011, the Company became The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive compliant with the provision regarding the number are distinct and formally documented, with the of independent Non-executive Directors.
Table 3 Chairman being responsible for the leadership of on page 66 sets out the Companys reasons for the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting non-compliance with these provisions.
its agenda, and the Chief Executive for developing the Companys strategic direction, implementing The Board has also reviewed the provisions of the policies and strategies decided by the Board UK Corporate Governance Code, which first applies and managing the business in the most effective to Capital & Counties Properties PLC for the year way possible.
The Company will offer each Director for election by shareholders at its 2.2 Independence of Directors forthcoming AGM, thus adopting early a principal The Combined Code requires that the Chairman new provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
should be determined as independent on appointment and that, excluding the Chairman, at least half the As a UK company with an inward listing in South Board should comprise Non-executive Directors Africa, the Company does not seek to comply with determined to be independent.
the provisions of the South African King Code of Governance 2009, but follows UK guidance with On demerger, the Board comprised the Chairman due cognisance of SA practice.
who, as the former Finance Director of Liberty Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
