DTR disclosure in the area of corporate responsibility on behalf of The disclosures required under DTR 7.2 of the the Board.
The Committee met once during 2010.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules are contained in Attendance at this meeting is shown in Table 2. this report and the Audit Committee Report, except The Groups corporate responsibility activities for information required under DTR 7.2.
6 which is are described on pages 57 to 60. contained in the Directors Report on pages 54 to 56.
Communication with Shareholders By order of the Board Communication with the Companys investors is a priority for the Board.
The Company has an extensive investor relations programme, and during the period the Chief Executive and Finance Director held many meetings with the Companys major shareholders which discussed the Groups strategy and explained progress made across its estates.
Numerous tours of the Groups assets with investors I. C. Durant and analysts were also held.
During the period the Chairman Chairman and Senior Independent Director offered 2 March 2011 to meet with, and introduce Henry Staunton to, the Companys major institutional shareholders.
The Chairman met several of the Companys South African investors during a recent visit.
The Directors receive regular updates on changes to the Companys shareholders, and receive reports on shareholder feedback at each Board meeting.
The Non-executive Directors also have the opportunity to attend the Companys results presentations.
The Chairman and Chairmen of the Board Committees will be available at the AGM to meet shareholders and answer any questions.
Should shareholders be unable to successfully resolve concerns following contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director, they may raise them through the Senior Independent Director.
The Company has undertaken to consult with its major shareholders before implementing any changes to its remuneration structure.
Going concern A statement on going concern is set out on page 56.
Annual General Meeting The notice of Annual General Meeting will be issued to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions will be proposed on each separate issue.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
