Governance 70 Directors remuneration report I am pleased to introduce the first Directors remuneration report of Capital & Counties Properties PLC.
The aim of Capcos remuneration policy is to align executive remuneration with shareholders interests and the long-term growth of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee will review the remuneration arrangements on an ongoing basis to ensure that the structure remains appropriate.
I. J. Henderson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee This remuneration report has been prepared in to their own remuneration.
Details of meeting line with the requirements of the Companies Act attendance and a summary of the matters discussed 2006, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized during 2010 are contained in the Corporate Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Governance report on pages 61 to 66.
Regulations 2008 and the FSA Listing Rules.
The audited information is set out in Tables a to d on The Committee has appointed Kepler Associates as pages 76 and 77.
This report has been approved its independent remuneration adviser and has by the Board of Directors for submission to received advice on matters including remuneration shareholders for their approval at the AGM.
structure, incentive design and target setting.
Kepler provided no other services to the Company.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee the Committee 2.
Remuneration policy is responsible for determining and recommending Prior to demerger, a remuneration structure felt to to the Board the policy for Executive remuneration, be appropriate for the newly independent Capco setting targets for the Companys incentive schemes business was developed by Liberty International.
and determining the total individual remuneration The remuneration arrangements will be reviewed package for each Executive Director.
The full duties by the Remuneration Committee on an ongoing and responsibilities of the Committee are set out basis to ensure they remain appropriate.
in the terms of reference of the Committee which can be viewed on the Companys website: The key objectives of the Companys Remuneration www.
com Policy are to: FgebaZ l T Za XkXVhg iX eX`haXeTg ba j g[ The members of the Committee at 31 December 2010 shareholders interests including the and at the date of this report were all independent encouragement of Executives to acquire a Non-executive Directors.
The Committee members are meaningful holding of Capco shares Ian Henderson Committee Chairman, Andrew HaWXec a T cTl Ybe cXeYbe`TaVX Vh gheX Huntley, Henry Staunton and Andrew Strang.
David Fhccbeg g[X eXgXag ba `bg iTg ba TaW eXVeh g`Xag Fischel was appointed to the Committee on demerger, of talented people who are commercially astute and stepped down on the appointment of Henry and creative Staunton to the Committee on 17 December 2010.
Accordingly, the Committee aims to achieve an In addition, the Company Chairman and Chief appropriate balance between xed and variable Executive were invited to attend Committee remuneration, and between remuneration based meetings and contribute except on matters relating on shortand long-term performance.
Fixed Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
