Governance 62 Corporate governance International PLC, did not meet the Combined On appointment, and each subsequent year, NonCodes independence criteria on appointment, executive Directors are required to confirm in three independent Non-executive Directors and five writing that they have sufficient time to devote to non-independent Directors.
As explained in the the Companys affairs.
In addition they are required Companys prospectus dated 12 March 2010, the to seek prior approval from the Chairman before Board of Directors appointed on demerger was felt taking on any additional external commitments to be appropriate for the newly independent which may affect their time available to devote to Company as it offered continuity to shareholders.
Following the appointment of Henry Staunton to the Board on 2 June 2010, the Board comprised the The Companys Articles of Association permit Chairman, four independent Non-executive the Board to authorise potential conicts of a Directors and five non-independent Directors, Directors interests that may arise.
The Board has including three Executive Directors.
adopted a procedure under which Directors must notify the Chairman of any potential conicts.
The Following David Fischels decision to step down Chairman then decides whether a conict exists and from the Board in February 2011, the Board recommends its authorisation by the Board where comprises the Chairman, four independent Nonappropriate.
A Director who had a conict of interest executive Directors and four non-independent would not be counted in the quorum or entitled to Directors, and satisfies the UK Corporate vote when the Board considered the matter in which Governance Code provision regarding the number the Director had an interest.
No areas of conict were of independent Non-executive Directors.
The table below sets out which of the Directors the 2.4 Operation of the Board Board considers to be independent.
Each independent a Remit and meetings Director has confirmed that there is no reason On demerger, a schedule of matters reserved for Board why they should not continue to be considered approval was adopted, and this will be reviewed on independent, and the Board is satisfied that they all an annual basis.
Matters so reserved include decisions remain independent in character and judgement.
on the composition of the Board, its Committees, Company strategy, significant funding decisions and Table 1 corporate transactions, delegated authority limits and dividend policy.
Day-to-day management of the Name Independent Group is delegated to the Executive Directors, subject Ian Hawksworth No to formal delegated authority limits.
Soumen Das No Gary Yardley No The Board meets formally throughout the year with Graeme Gordon No main meetings timed around the financial calendar, Ian Henderson Yes and additional meetings convened to consider Andrew Huntley Yes specic matters as needed.
Attendance at meetings Henry Staunton Yes held during 2010 is shown in Table 2.
If matters Andrew Strang Yes require approval at short notice, written approval 4 4 is sought from all Directors.
In addition to regular reports from the Executive Directors, Company Each of these Non-executive Directors is considered to be independent as they met the Combined Codes independence criteria on their Secretary and Committee Chairmen, matters appointment as Non-executive Directors of Liberty International PLC, considered by the Board during the period include: and confirmed their continued independence on appointment as Directors of the Company.
6b`` ggXXf gXe`f bY eXYXeXaVX 2.3 Directors commitments and conicts of interest E f ZbiXeaTaVX The Chairmans other business commitments are set 5bTeW XXVg iXaXff eXi Xj FXX %!'
V out in his biography on page 53.
During the period FV[XWh X bY `TggXef eXfXeiXW Ybe 5bTeW WXV f ba the Board was satisfied that these commitments 7X XZTgXW Thg[be gl ` gf did not interfere with the performance of his duties 5eb Xe hcWTgXf as Chairman.
5bTeW TaW 6b`` ggXX Tccb ag`Xagf Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
