Governance 62 Corporate governance International PLC, did not meet the Combined On appointment, and each subsequent year, NonCodes independence criteria on appointment, executive Directors are required to confirm in three independent Non-executive Directors and five writing that they have sufficient time to devote to non-independent Directors.
As explained in the the Companys affairs.
In addition they are required Companys prospectus dated 12 March 2010, the to seek prior approval from the Chairman before Board of Directors appointed on demerger was felt taking on any additional external commitments to be appropriate for the newly independent which may affect their time available to devote to Company as it offered continuity to shareholders.
Following the appointment of Henry Staunton to the Board on 2 June 2010, the Board comprised the The Companys Articles of Association permit Chairman, four independent Non-executive the Board to authorise potential conicts of a Directors and five non-independent Directors, Directors interests that may arise.
The Board has including three Executive Directors.
adopted a procedure under which Directors must notify the Chairman of any potential conicts.
The Following David Fischels decision to step down Chairman then decides whether a conict exists and from the Board in February 2011, the Board recommends its authorisation by the Board where comprises the Chairman, four independent Nonappropriate.
A Director who had a conict of interest executive Directors and four non-independent would not be counted in the quorum or entitled to Directors, and satisfies the UK Corporate vote when the Board considered the matter in which Governance Code provision regarding the number the Director had an interest.
No areas of conict were of independent Non-executive Directors.
The table below sets out which of the Directors the 2.4 Operation of the Board Board considers to be independent.
Each independent a Remit and meetings Director has confirmed that there is no reason On demerger, a schedule of matters reserved for Board why they should not continue to be considered approval was adopted, and this will be reviewed on independent, and the Board is satisfied that they all an annual basis.
Matters so reserved include decisions remain independent in character and judgement.
on the composition of the Board, its Committees, Company strategy, significant funding decisions and Table 1 corporate transactions, delegated authority limits and dividend policy.
Day-to-day management of the Name Independent Group is delegated to the Executive Directors, subject Ian Hawksworth No to formal delegated authority limits.
Soumen Das No Gary Yardley No The Board meets formally throughout the year with Graeme Gordon No main meetings timed around the financial calendar, Ian Henderson Yes and additional meetings convened to consider Andrew Huntley Yes specic matters as needed.
Attendance at meetings Henry Staunton Yes held during 2010 is shown in Table 2.
If matters Andrew Strang Yes require approval at short notice, written approval 4 4 is sought from all Directors.
In addition to regular reports from the Executive Directors, Company Each of these Non-executive Directors is considered to be independent as they met the Combined Codes independence criteria on their Secretary and Committee Chairmen, matters appointment as Non-executive Directors of Liberty International PLC, considered by the Board during the period include: and confirmed their continued independence on appointment as Directors of the Company.
6b`` ggXXf gXe`f bY eXYXeXaVX 2.3 Directors commitments and conicts of interest E f ZbiXeaTaVX The Chairmans other business commitments are set 5bTeW XXVg iXaXff eXi Xj FXX %!'
V out in his biography on page 53.
During the period FV[XWh X bY `TggXef eXfXeiXW Ybe 5bTeW WXV f ba the Board was satisfied that these commitments 7X XZTgXW Thg[be gl ` gf did not interfere with the performance of his duties 5eb Xe hcWTgXf as Chairman.
5bTeW TaW 6b`` ggXX Tccb ag`Xagf Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Governance 63 able to take independent advice at the Companys EXfh gf Ybe [T Y lXTe XaWXW &# haX %#$# expense and have access to the advice and services of F Za VTag aiXfg`Xag WXV f baf aV hW aZ cebcXegl the Company Secretary.
Board papers are circulated acquisitions, disposals and leases several days in advance of meetings to ensure that agXe ` `TaTZX`Xag fgTgX`Xag Directors have sufficient time to consider their content prior to the meeting.
Through the Chairman, In addition to the formal Board meetings, regular the Company Secretary is responsible for advising the informal Directors update meetings are held.
These meetings are used for site visits, and keeping the Board Board on matters of corporate governance.
updated on topical matters and Group progress.
Five Directors update meetings were held during 2010 and c Board performance and evaluation included site visits to Covent Garden, Earls Court & As part of the ongoing consideration of the Board Olympia, and a Health & Safety brieng.
The Directors composition, and in light of the forthcoming updates are occasionally attended by senior staff, who requirement under the UK Corporate Governance are always available to the Non-executive Directors.
Code for the Board evaluation exercise to be externally facilitated at least every three years, the The Chairman also meets regularly with the NonBoard engaged Independent Audit Limited to executive Directors without the Executive Directors undertake a Board effectiveness review during the being present.
The exercise included face-to-face interviews with each Director and the Company Secretary, b Director induction and training a review of Board materials and observation of the On appointment, Henry Staunton was given a November Board meeting and December Directors comprehensive induction to the Company.
The resulting report from Independent programme included individual meetings with the Audit Limited, which covered both the composition Chairman, Executive Directors and other senior and the operation of the Board and Committees, was staff, meetings with the external and internal largely positive and made recommendations for auditors, site visits, and a pack containing copies further developing the Board.
The Board has adopted of Board and Committee papers and minutes and all of the significant recommendations.
A similar induction programme will be provided for future During the first 12 months following the demerger, appointments, with such additional external training the Senior Independent Director and Non-executive or brieng as may be required.
On his appointment, Directors will meet without the Chairman present to the Companys major shareholders were offered the appraise the Chairmans performance since demerger.
opportunity to meet Henry Staunton.
This appraisal will be undertaken annually.
Ongoing training is available to Directors, and d Attendance at meetings briengs from the Companys valuers, remuneration The table below summarises Directors attendance consultant and health & safety consultant have at Board and Committee meetings held between been provided during the period.
Directors are also demerger and 31 December 2010.
Table 2 Name Board 3 Audit 3 Remuneration 3 Nomination 1 CR 1 Ian Durant 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 Ian Hawksworth 3 3 1 1 1 1 Soumen Das 3 3 Gary Yardley 3 3 Ian Henderson 3 3 2 3 3 3 1 1 1 1 David Fischel 3 3 2 3 Graeme Gordon 3 3 Andrew Huntley 3 3 1 3 1 1 Henry Staunton 1 2 2 2 Andrew Strang 3 3 3 3 3 3 1 1 Several Board meetings were also held in the period from incorporation to demerger.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
