Concentration of investments Impact: Heightened exposure to events that threaten Central London Risk Mitigation factors Further information Events which damage or diminish Londons status as a global Terrorist insurance in place.
Corporate responsibility financial, business and tourist centre could affect the Groups Security and health & safety policies and procedures in ofces.
ability to let vacant space, reduce the value of the Groups Close liaison with police & NATSCO.
properties and potentially disrupt access or operations at the Groups head ofce.
Disaster recover and business continuity planning.
Active involvement in organisations and industry bodies promoting London.
Corporate risks Impact: The Groups ability to maintain its reputation, revenue and value could be damaged by corporate risks Risk Mitigation factors Further information Responding to regulatory, reputation, legislative and corporate Appointment of experienced individuals with clear responsibility Corporate governance governance challenges as an independent company post and accountability.
Sound governance and internal policies with demerger.
appropriately skilled executive and Non-executive Directors.
Non-REIT status brings heightened tax exposure and a potential Appropriate due diligence and consultation.
Financial review competitive disadvantage when bidding for new assets.
Risk associated with attracting and retaining staff.
Succession planning, performance evaluations, training & development, long-term incentive rewards.
Failure to comply with health & safety or other statutory Comprehensive health & safety procedures in place across the Corporate responsibility regulations or notices.
External consultants undertake annual audits in all locations.
Safe working practices well established, including staff communication and training.
5. Financing risks Impact: Reduced or limited availability of debt or equity finance may threaten the Groups ability to meet its financial commitments or objectives and potentially to operate as a going concern Risk Mitigation factors Further information Decline in market conditions or a general rise in interest rates Maintain appropriate liquidity to cover commitments.
Financial review could impact the availability and cost of debt nancing.
Target longer and staggered debt maturities to avoid renancing concentration and consideration of early renancing.
Derivative contracts to provide interest rate protection.
Regular monitoring of covenants with headroom maintained.
Other Information page 1 34 Reduced availability of equity capital.
Maintain appropriate liquidity to cover commitments.
Financial review Target conservative overall leverage levels.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
