qxd 22 7 10 5:17 pm Page 34 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued r Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than investment property see Note 1 h and deferred tax assets see Note 1 p, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Income Statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated to first reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cash generating units or group of units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit or group of units on a pro rata basis.
i Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of the Groups investments in held-to-maturity securities and receivables is calculated as the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition of these financial assets.
Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
ii Reversal of impairment An impairment loss in respect of a receivable is reversed if the subsequent increase in recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
s Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
t Interest bearing loans and borrowings Floating rate interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently recorded at amortised cost.
In order to provide consistency of accounting treatment between fixed rate interest bearing loans and borrowings and floating rate loans and borrowings Page 34
