qxd 22 7 10 6:54 pm Page 35 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 which have been fixed through the use of interest rate swaps, the former are subsequently recorded at fair value.
u Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates The Groups significant accounting policies are set out above.
Not all of these policies require management to make subjective or complex judgements or estimates.
The following is intended to provide further detail relating to those accounting policies that management consider particularly significant because of the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application and their impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
i Property valuations The valuation of the Groups property portfolio is inherently subjective, depending on many factors, including the individual nature of each property, its location and expected future rental values, market yields and comparable market transactions.
Therefore the valuations are subject to a degree of uncertainty and are made on the basis of assumptions which may not prove to be accurate, particularly in periods of market volatility or low transaction volumes, as has recently been the case in the uncertain economic conditions.
As noted in Note 1 h above, all the Groups properties are valued by external valuers with appropriate qualifications and experience.
ii Income taxes The tax treatment of some transactions and calculations cannot be determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authorities.
In such cases, the Groups policy is to be prudent in its assessment of the tax benefit which may accrue in accordance with the contingent asset rules in IAS 37.
Where the final outcome of such matters is different from the amounts initially recorded, those differences will be reflected in the income and deferred taxes amounts at the time of formal resolution.
iii Valuation of hedging instruments The fair value of hedging instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
Management, based on independent advice, uses its judgement to select appropriate methods and assumptions which are based mainly on market conditions existing at the balance sheet date.
iv Trade receivables Management uses details of the age of trade receivables and the status of any disputes together with external evidence of the credit status of the counterparty in making judgements concerning any need to impair the carrying values.
Segmental Analysis The Group is managed through two discrete geographical divisions and has only one product or service, being investment in property for the generation of rental income and or capital appreciation.
This is reflected in the Groups structure and in the segment information reviewed by the Board.
No changes in the composition of reported operating segments has resulted from the adoption of IFRS 8.
