qxd 22 7 10 6:54 pm Page 31 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the events or amounts involved, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of complexity, judgement or estimation are set out in Note 1 u below.
c Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable are taken into account.
d Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
e Income available for distribution Under the Articles of Association of certain Group investment undertakings, realised capital surpluses are not available for distribution as dividends.
f Foreign currency translation The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on re-translation are recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
The cumulative translation difference for all foreign operations was deemed to be zero as at the date of transition to IFRS.
g Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate risk arising from operational and financing activities.
As these derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, they are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would recover or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the credit worthiness of the swap counterparties.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
h Investment property IFRS defines Investment Properties as those which are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both.
All of the Groups property portfolio falls within this definition.
Investment Properties are stated at fair value.
External, independent valuation firms having appropriate recognised professional qualifications and recent relevant experience in the location and category of property being valued, value the portfolio annually at the Companys year end.
The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after Page 31
