qxd 22 7 10 5:16 pm Page 19 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 During the year there were four formal Board Meetings and attendance was: B S E Freshwater 4, S I Freshwater 4, D Davis 4.
Directors and Directors Independence The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three non-executive Directors and one executive Director.
The names of the Directors together with their biographical details are set out on page 13.
R E Freshwater and A M Freshwater are not independent by virtue of their membership of the Freshwater family.
The Board acknowledge that in view of his length of service, D Davis is not technically independent.
Directors Remuneration Details of the Directors remuneration are contained in the Remuneration Report on page 16.
Internal Controls The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Combined Code requires that the Directors review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, covering financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant business risks faced by the Group and that this process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process is reviewed by the Board at regular intervals and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Board has considered the benefits likely to arise from the appointment of an internal audit function and have concluded that this is not currently necessary having regard to other controls which operate within the Group.
Key elements of the Groups system of internal controls are as follows: Controls environment: The Group is committed to the highest standards of business conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all its operations.
The Group has a clear organisational structure for planning, executing and monitoring business operations in order to achieve the Groups objectives.
Lines of responsibility and delegation of authority are well defined.
Risk identification and evaluation: Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of key risks applicable to the areas of the property market which impact its objectives.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a variety of internal and external sources.
The Board considers the risk implications of business decisions including those affecting all major transactions.
Information and communication: Periodic strategic reviews are carried out which include the consideration of long term financial projections.
Financial performance is actively monitored at Board level.
Through these mechanisms group performance is monitored, risks identified in a timely manner, their implications assessed, control procedures reevaluated and corrective actions agreed and implemented.
