qxd 22 7 10 5:17 pm Page 32 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
The Groups investment properties were valued as set out in note 8 on page 39.
The valuations are prepared either by considering the aggregate of the net annual rent receivable from the properties using a market yield which reflects the risks inherent in the net cash flow which is then applied to the net annual rents to arrive at the property valuation, or on a sales comparison basis.
Any gains or losses arising from a change in fair value are recognised in the Income Statement.
When the Group begins to redevelop an existing investment property for continued future use as an investment property, the property remains an investment property, which is measured based on the fair value model.
A property interest under an operating lease is classified and accounted for as an investment property on a property-by-property basis when the Group holds it to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both.
Any such property interest under an operating lease classified as an investment property is carried at fair value.
When the Group uses only part of a property it owns and retains the remainder to generate rental income or capital appreciation the extent of the Groups utilisation is considered to determine the classification of the property.
If the Groups utilisation is less than five per cent.
this is regarded as immaterial such that the whole property is classified as an investment property and stated at fair value.
Acquisition and disposals are recognised on the date of completion.
It is Group policy to sell, as individual units, flats in residential blocks which have been held as investment but which are now considered uneconomic to retain.
Occasionally there are sales of residential and commercial investment blocks.
The resulting surplus based on the excess sale proceeds over valuation is included in the Income Statement and taxation applicable thereto is shown as part of the taxation charge.
i Investments Investments comprise equity securities held for trading and classified as current assets stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the Income Statement.
j Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are initially stated at fair value and subsequently carried at cost less impairment losses.
These assets are not discounted as it is deemed immaterial.
k Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Bank overdrafts have therefore been included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Statement of Cash Flows.
l Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved.
