qxd 22 7 10 5:17 pm Page 30 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Significant accounting policies Daejan Holdings PLC is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2010 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Consolidated Financial Statements were authorised for issuance on 21 July 2010. a Statement of compliance The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP and these are presented on pages 48 to 50. b Basis of preparation The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in sterling, the Companys functional currency, rounded to the nearest thousand.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, investment properties and current asset investments.
Except as noted below, the accounting policies set out in this Note 1 have been applied consistently throughout the Group to all periods presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company has adopted the following new and revised standards and interpretations with effect from 1 April 2009: IFRS 8 Operating Segments IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs revised IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate The adoption of these new and revised standards and interpretations did not have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Segmental disclosures have been made in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 8 as further detailed in Note 1 q below and in Note 2.
IAS 1 revised requires the presentation of a consolidated statement of changes in equity as a separate statement, which is set out on page 27.
The Company did not adopt the following revised standards which were available for optional early adoption: IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised The Company does not expect the adoption of the above revised standards to have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as explained in the Corporate Governance section on page 21.
