finAnciAl stAtements 61 accountinG policies Year ended 30 June 2010 Basis of preparation of 720.5m, together with amended financing arrangements.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance The equity issue was completed on 4 November 2009 and with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as the amended financing arrangements came into effect on issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 16 November 2009.
IASB, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and Standing Interpretations The Placing and the Rights Issue, together with the amended Committee SIC interpretations as adopted and endorsed financing arrangements, have significantly strengthened the by the European Union EU and with those parts of the position of the Group and have enabled the Group to take Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under advantage of land acquisition opportunities.
There has been IFRS and therefore the Group financial statements comply some recovery in the new housing market during the year, with Article 4 of the EU International Accounting Standards although the market remains subject to economic uncertainty Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared under and a lack of mortgage finance particularly in the higher loan the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation to value segment.
The amended financing arrangements of available for sale financial assets, derivative financial provide an appropriate alternative framework for the Group instruments and share-based payments.
A summary of the should a further downturn arise.
more significant Group accounting policies is set out below.
Accordingly, after making enquiries, the Directors have formed The preparation of financial statements in conformity with a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company has estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements foreseeable future, being at least twelve months from the date and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during of these financial statements.
For this reason, they continue to the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial the Directors best knowledge of the amounts, actual results statements.
may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The most significant estimates made by the Directors in these financial statements adoption of new and revised standards are set out in Critical accounting judgements and key sources In the year ended 30 June 2010, the Group has adopted: of estimation uncertainty.
IAS1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements, IFRS8 Going concern Operating Segments, IAS23 revised Borrowing Costs, In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the IFRS2 revised Share-based Payments, Amendment to IFRS7 financial statements, the Directors are required to consider Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments, IFRS3 whether the Group can continue in operational existence for revised Business Combinations, IFRIC15 Agreements for the the foreseeable future.
construction of real estate, Amendment to IFRS1 and IAS27 Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly-Controlled Entity The Groups business activities, together with factors which or Associate, certain Improvements to IFRSs, Amendment the Directors consider are likely to affect its future development, to IAS39 Eligible hedged items, IFRIC16 Hedges of a net financial performance and financial position are set out in the investment in a foreign operation, Amendments to IAS32 Group Chief Executives review on pages 6 to 9 and the Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS1 Presentation Business review on pages 12 to 21.
The material financial and of financial statements for certain puttable financial instruments operational risks and uncertainties that may impact the Groups and obligations arising on liquidation, IAS27 revised performance and their mitigation are outlined on pages 26 Consolidated and separate financial statements, IFRS1 and 27 and financial risks including liquidity risk, market risk, revised First Time Adoption of IFRS, IFRIC17 Distributions credit risk and capital risk are outlined in note 25 to the of Non-Cash Assets to Owners, IFRIC18 Transfers of Assets financial statements.
from Customers and Amendments to IFRIC9 IAS39 Embedded derivatives.
The financial performance of the Group is dependent upon the wider economic environment in which the Group operates.
iAs1 revised presentation of financial As explained in the Principal risks on pages 26 and 27, factors statements that particularly impact upon the performance of the Group IAS1 revised requires the production of a statement of include changes in the macroeconomic environment including comprehensive income setting out all items of income and buyer confidence, availability of mortgage finance for the expense relating to non-owner changes in equity.
There is Groups purchasers and interest rates.
a choice between presenting comprehensive income in one statement or in two statements comprising an income On 23 September 2009 the Company announced a fully statement and a separate statement of comprehensive underwritten Placing and Rights Issue, raising gross proceeds income.
The Group has elected to present comprehensive Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 62 financial statements Accounting policies income in two statements.
In addition, IAS1 revised requires ifRs2 revised share-based payments the statement of changes in shareholders equity to be The amendment to IFRS2 requires non-vesting conditions presented as a primary statement.
The other revisions to IAS1 to be taken into account in the estimate of the fair value of have not had a significant impact on the presentation of the the equity instruments.
The adoption of the amendment has Groups financial information.
Following the adoption of IAS1 resulted in a charge of 0.4m in the administrative expenses revised, having assessed the materiality of restatements charged in the consolidated income statement for the year arising from the adoption of new standards and interpretations ended 30 June 2010 and no net change in equity at 30 June in the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2010, 2010.
The change in accounting policy had no impact upon and the impact of restating earnings per share in accordance the prior year consolidated income statement or equity.
with IAS33 following the Rights Issue, the Directors consider that these have not had a significant impact upon these Amendment to ifRs7 improving disclosures financial statements and accordingly balance sheets at about financial instruments 30 June 2008 are not presented.
The amendment to IFRS7 expands the disclosure requirements in respect of fair value measurements recognised in the ifRs8 operating segments statement of financial position.
The amendment has required IFRS8 requires operating segments to be identified on the additional disclosures in the financial statements in respect basis of internal reports about components of the Group that of fair value measurements and liquidity risk.
The Group has are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker, elected not to provide comparative financial information for which in the case of the Group is the Board, to allocate these expanded disclosures in the current year in accordance resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
with the transitional reliefs offered in these amendments.
In contrast, the predecessor standard IAS14 Segment Reporting required the Group to identify two sets of ifRs3 revised Business combinations segments business and geographical, using a risks and The revision to IFRS3 requires transaction costs to be rewards approach, with the Groups system of internal expensed rather than included as costs of acquisition, and financial reporting to key management personnel serving only contingent consideration will be required to be fair valued.
In as the starting point for the identification of such segments.
addition, there will be a choice of two goodwill measurement methods where less than 100% of the entity is acquired.
The Group has determined in accordance with IFRS8 that its Implementation of the revision to IFRS3 has not impacted reported operating segments will be based on business upon the financial statements in the current year, however, segments which were the basis of its primary operating it will have a significant impact on any future acquisitions.
segments under IAS14, and the segmental information set out in note 2 is presented on this basis.
The adoption of ifRic15 Agreements for the construction of this standard has not resulted in a change in the Groups real estate reportable segments and accordingly there has been no IFRIC15 provides guidance on whether the construction of change in the allocation of goodwill between existing real estate should be accounted for under IAS11 or IAS18.
IFRS8 also requires the disclosure Group already accounted for the construction of real estate in of information about geographical segmentation.
As the accordance with IFRIC15, and accordingly implementation of Group operates in a single geographic market, no secondary the interpretation has not impacted upon the Group.
The adoption of the following standards, interpretations and iAs23 revised Borrowing costs amendments has not had any impact upon the profit or net IAS23 revised requires the capitalisation of borrowing assets of the Group in either the current year or comparative costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or year and has not required any additional disclosures.
production of a qualifying asset one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for use as part of the cost of the Amendment to IFRS1 and IAS27 Cost of an Investment in a asset.
The amendment removes the option of immediately Subsidiary, Jointly-Controlled Entity or Associate: expensing borrowing costs, subject to an exemption for Certain Improvements to IFRSs: inventories manufactured in large numbers on a repetitive basis.
Amendment to IAS39 Eligible hedged items: IFRIC16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation: The Group has evaluated its business processes and where Amendments to IAS32 Financial Instruments: Presentation developments are considered to fall under the requirements and IAS1 Presentation of financial statements for certain of IAS23 revised costs are capitalised.
Borrowing costs of puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on nil have been capitalised at 30 June 2010.
IAS23 revised liquidation: applies prospectively and therefore no restatement to prior IAS27 revised Consolidated and separate financial statements: years is required on implementation.
IFRS1 revised First Time Adoption of IFRS: IFRIC17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners: Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 finAnciAl stAtements 63 IFRIC18 Transfers of Assets from Customers: and customer.
Revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the Amendments to IFRIC9 IAS39 Embedded derivatives.
stage of completion of contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by surveys of work performed to date.
Basis of consolidation Contracts are only treated as construction contracts when they The Group financial statements include the results of Barratt have been specifically negotiated for the construction of a Developments PLC the Parent Company and all its subsidiary development or property.
When it is probable that the total costs undertakings made up to 30 June.
The financial statements of on a construction contract will exceed total contract revenue, subsidiary undertakings are consolidated from the date when the expected loss is recognised as an expense in the income control passes to the Group using the purchase method of statement immediately.
accounting and up to the date control ceases.
All transactions with subsidiaries and inter-company profits or losses are Amounts recoverable on construction contracts are included eliminated on consolidation.
in trade receivables and stated at cost plus attributable profit less any foreseeable losses.
Payments received on account for Business combinations construction contracts are deducted from amounts recoverable All of the subsidiaries identifiable assets and liabilities, including on construction contracts.
contingent liabilities, existing at the date of acquisition are recorded at their fair values.
All changes to those assets and Payments received in excess of amounts recoverable on liabilities and the resulting gains and losses that arise after the construction contracts are included in trade payables.
Group has gained control of the subsidiary are included in the post-acquisition income statement.
exceptional items Items that are material in size or unusual or infrequent in nature Jointly controlled entities are presented as exceptional items in the income statement.
A jointly controlled entity is an entity in which the Group holds The Directors are of the opinion that the separate presentation an interest with one or more other parties where a contractual of exceptional items provides helpful information about the arrangement has established joint control over the entity.
Examples of events Jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity that, inter alia, may give rise to the classification of items as method of accounting.
exceptional are the restructuring of existing and newly-acquired businesses, gains or losses on the disposal of businesses or Jointly controlled operations individual assets, pension scheme curtailments and asset The Group enters into jointly controlled operations as part impairments, including land, work in progress, goodwill and of its housebuilding and property development activities.
The Groups share of profits and losses from its investments in such jointly controlled operations is accounted for on a direct restructuring costs basis and is included in the consolidated income statement.
Restructuring costs are recognised in the income statement The Groups share of its investments, assets and liabilities is when the Group has a detailed plan that has been accounted for on a directly proportional basis in the Group communicated to the affected parties.
A liability is accrued balance sheet.
revenue profit loss from operations Revenue is recognised at legal completion in respect of the Profit loss from operations includes all of the revenue and costs total proceeds of building and development and an appropriate derived from the Groups operating businesses.
Profit loss from proportion of revenue from construction contracts is recognised operations excludes finance costs, finance income, the Groups by reference to the stage of completion of contract activity.
share of profits or losses from joint ventures and tax.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents the amounts receivable for the segmental reporting property, net of discounts and VAT.
The sale proceeds of The Group consists of two separate segments for internal part-exchange properties are not included in revenue.
reporting regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to allocate resources to the segments and to assess Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the their performance, being housebuilding and commercial principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
These segments therefore comprise the primary reporting segments within the financial statements.
As all of the construction contracts Groups operations are within Britain, which is one geographic Revenue is only recognised on a construction contract where the market in the context of the Groups activities, there are outcome can be estimated reliably.
Variations to, and claims no geographic segments to be disclosed.
arising in respect of, construction contracts, are included in revenue to the extent that they have been agreed with the Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 64 financial statements Accounting policies Goodwill Freehold properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of over 25 years.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Plant is the fair value of the consideration over the fair value of the depreciated on a straight-line basis over its expected useful separately identifiable net assets and liabilities acquired.
life, which ranges from one to seven years.
Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings inventories and businesses is capitalised as an asset and reviewed for Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable impairment at least annually.
Cost comprises direct materials, direct labour costs and those overheads which have been incurred in bringing the For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to inventories to their present location and condition.
each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination at acquisition.
CashLand held for development, including land in the course of generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are development, is initially recorded at discounted cost.
Where, tested for impairment at least annually.
If the recoverable through deferred purchase credit terms, the carrying value amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying differs from the amount that will ultimately be paid in settling the amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to liability, this difference is charged as a finance cost in the reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit income statement over the period of settlement.
and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment Due to the scale of the Groups developments, the Group has to loss is recognised immediately in the income statement and is allocate site-wide development costs between units built in the not subsequently reversed.
current year and in future years.
It also has to estimate costs to complete on such developments.
In making these assessments intangible assets there is a degree of inherent uncertainty.
The Group has Brands developed internal controls to assess and review carryingInternally generated brands are not capitalised.
The Group values and the appropriateness of estimates made.
has capitalised as intangible assets brands that have been acquired.
Acquired brand values are calculated using lease as lessee discounted cash flows.
Where a brand is considered to have Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement a finite life, it is amortised over its useful life on a straight-line in equal instalments over the life of the lease.
Where a brand is capitalised with an indefinite life, it is not amortised.
The factors that result in the durability of brands leases as lessor capitalised are that there are no material legal, regulatory, The Group enters into leasing arrangements with third parties contractual, competitive, economic or other factors that limit following the completion of constructed developments until the useful life of these intangible assets.
the date of the sale of the development to third parties.
Rental income from these operating leases is recognised in the income The Group carries out an annual impairment review of indefinite statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
life brands by performing a value-in-use calculation, using a Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an discount factor based upon the Groups pre-tax weighted operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased average cost of capital.
asset and recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
investments Interests in subsidiary undertakings are accounted for at cost share-based payments less any provision for impairment.
The Group issues both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
In accordance Where share-based payments are granted to the employees with the transitional provisions, IFRS2 Share-based Payments of subsidiary undertakings by the Parent Company, they are has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after treated as a capital contribution to the subsidiary and the 7 November 2002 that had not vested at 1 January 2005.
Companys investment in the subsidiary is increased accordingly.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value property, plant and equipment at the date of grant.
Fair value is measured either using Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less Black-Scholes, Present-Economic Value or Monte Carlo models accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
dependent upon the characteristics of the scheme.
The fair Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of the assets on a value is expensed in the income statement on a straight-line straight-line basis to their residual value over their estimated basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate useful lives.
Residual values and asset lives are reviewed annually.
of shares that will eventually vest where non-market vesting conditions apply.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 finAnciAl stAtements 65 Non-vesting conditions are taken into account in the estimate defined benefit of the fair value of the equity instruments.
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, Cash-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance at the date of grant and are re-measured both at the end of sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in each reporting period and at the date of settlement with any full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised changes in fair value being recognised in the income statement outside profit or loss and presented in the statement of for the period.
Fair value is measured initially and at the end of comprehensive income.
each reporting period using a Black-Scholes model and at the date of settlement as cash paid.
Past service cost, until the scheme ceased to offer future accrual of defined benefit pensions to employees from tax 30 June 2009, was recognised immediately to the extent The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently that the benefits were already vested, and otherwise was payable and deferred tax.
amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance income statement because it excludes items of income or sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
as reduced by the fair value of the scheme assets.
Any asset The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all future contributions to the scheme.
temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result Borrowing costs in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay The Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of the asset where developments are Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that are expected to considered to fall under the requirements of IAS23 revised.
apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is Otherwise, the Group expenses borrowing costs in the realised based on tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at period to which they relate through the income statement.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged financial instruments or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the also dealt with in equity.
Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set-off current tax assets against The Group derecognises a financial liability only when the current tax liabilities and when they relate to taxes levied by Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
the same tax authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
financial assets Non-derivative financial assets are classified as either available pensions for sale financial assets or loans and receivables.
The defined contribution classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes for assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
The Groups contributions to the schemes are charged in the income statement in the year in which the contributions fall due.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 66 financial statements Accounting policies available for sale financial assets cash and cash equivalents Non-interest bearing loans granted as part of sales transactions Cash and cash equivalents include cash and balances in that are secured by way of a second legal charge on the bank accounts with no notice or less than three months respective property are classified as being available for sale and notice from inception and are subject to an insignificant are stated at fair value.
Fair value is determined in the manner risk of changes in value.
Cash and cash equivalents are classified as loans Revenue from transactions involving available for sale financial and receivables.
assets is recognised at the fair value of consideration receivable.
financial liabilities and equity Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are Financial liabilities and equity are classified according to the recognised directly in the income statement including substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
impairment losses, changes in future cash flows and interest calculated using the effective interest rate method.
equity instruments Equity instruments consist of the Companys ordinary share trade and other receivables capital and are recorded at the proceeds received, net of Trade and other receivables are financial assets with fixed direct issue costs.
or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for those financial liabilities with maturities greater than twelve months after the balance All non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as other sheet date, which are classified as non-current assets and financial liabilities and are initially measured at fair value, net are measured at amortised cost less an allowance for any of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently uncollectable amounts.
The net of these balances are classified measured at amortised cost using the effective interest as trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Trade and other receivables are classified as loans Other financial liabilities consist of bank borrowings and trade and receivables.
impairment of financial assets Financial liabilities are classified as current liabilities unless the Trade and other receivables are assessed for indicators of Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the impairment at each balance sheet date and are impaired liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date.
where there is objective evidence that the recovery of the receivable is in doubt.
trade and other payables Trade and other payables on normal terms are not interest Objective evidence of impairment could include significant bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
financial difficulty of the customer, default on payment terms or the customer going into liquidation.
Trade and other payables on extended terms, particularly in respect of land, are recorded at their fair value at the date of The carrying amount of trade and other receivables is reduced acquisition of the asset to which they relate by discounting at through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade or other prevailing market interest rates at the date of recognition.
receivable is considered uncollectable, it is written off against The discount to nominal value, which will be paid in settling the the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts deferred purchase terms liability, is amortised over the period previously written off are credited against the allowance of the credit term and charged to finance costs using the account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance effective interest rate method.
account are recognised in the income statement.
Bank borrowings For financial assets classified as available for sale, a significant Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at or prolonged decline in the value of the property underpinning the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
the value of the loan or increased risk of default are considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
Where bank agreements include a legal right of offset for in hand and overdraft balances, and the Group intends to settle In respect of debt instruments classified as available for sale the net outstanding position, the offset arrangements are financial assets, increases in the fair value of assets previously applied to record the net position in the balance sheet.
subject to impairment, which can be objectively related to an event occurring after recognition of the impairment loss are Finance income and charges are accounted for using the recognised in the income statement to the extent that they effective interest rate method in the income statement.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 finAnciAl stAtements 67 Finance costs are recognised as an expense in the income Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging statement in the period to which they relate.
instrument expires or is terminated or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss Derivative financial instruments deferred in equity remains in equity and is recognised when The Group has entered into derivative financial instruments the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
in the form of interest rate swaps, basis rate swaps and When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, cross currency swaps to manage the interest rate and foreign the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is exchange rate risk arising from the Groups operations and recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors Government grants as detailed in notes 24 and 25 to the financial statements.
Government grants are recognised in the income statement so as to match with the related costs that they are intended to The interest rate and cross currency swap arrangements are compensate.
Grants related to assets are deducted from the designated as hedging instruments, being either hedges of carrying amount of the asset.
Grants related to income are a change in future cash flows as a result of interest rate included in the appropriate line within the income statement.
movements, or hedges of a change in future cash flows as a result of foreign currency exchange rate movements.
Kickstart During the year, the Group has been granted assistance for The fair value of hedging derivatives is classified as a nonthe development of a number of sites under the Homes and current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity Communities Agency HCA Kickstart scheme.
Where of the hedging relationship is more than twelve months and receipts under the Kickstart scheme relate to grants they are as a current asset or a current liability if the remaining maturity accounted for in accordance with the policy for government of the hedge relationship is less than twelve months.
hedge accounting In addition the Group has received cash upon specific sites All of the Groups interest rate and cross currency swaps are under the Kickstart equity scheme which is repayable in future designated as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge periods, as the sites to which it relates are developed, along relationship the Group documents the relationship between with the share of the profits or losses attributable to the HCA the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk arising from the sites.
This liability is included within borrowings management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various and is initially recognised at fair value by discounting it at hedged transactions.
In addition, at the inception of the hedge prevailing market interest rates at the date of recognition.
and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the The discount to nominal value, which will be paid in settling hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting the changes the liability, is amortised over the expected life of the site and in cash flows of the hedged items.
charged to finance costs using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value Details of the fair values of the interest rate and cross of the liability related to the HCAs share of the profits or losses currency swaps are provided in notes 22, 23 and 24 to of the site are recognised directly in the income statement.
Movements on the hedging reserve in equity are detailed in the statements of changes in shareholders equity.
cash flow hedge To the extent that the Groups cash flow hedges are effective, gains and losses on the fair value of the interest rate and cross currency swap arrangements are deferred in equity in the hedging reserve until realised.
On realisation, such gains and losses are recognised within finance charges in the income statement.
To the extent that any hedge is ineffective, gains and losses on the fair value of these swap arrangements are recognised immediately in finance charges in the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010
