68 financial statements impact of stanDarDs anD interpretations in issue But not Yet effective At the date of approval of these financial statements there Amendment to IAS32 Classification of rights issues clarifies were a number of standards, amendments and interpretations various issues when accounting for a rights issue, including that have been published and are therefore mandatory for foreign currency issues, compound financial instruments, the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July treasury shares and disclosure.
The amendment will apply 2010 and later periods.
All of these have been endorsed by to the Group from 1 July 2010, and although it will have no the EU with the exception of IFRS9, IFRIC19, the revisions impact on implementation, it may impact the accounting or amendments to IFRS1, IAS24 and the Improvements to for any future rights issues.
The Group has not early-adopted any Amendment to IFRIC14 Prepayments of a Minimum standard, amendment or interpretation.
Funding Requirement was issued to correct an unintended consequence of the interpretation which, in some The standards, amendments and interpretations that are circumstances, prevented the recognition as an asset some expected to impact upon the Group are: voluntary prepayments for minimum funding contributions.
IFRS9 Financial Instruments will apply to the Group from The amendment applies to the Group from 1 July 2011 1 July 2013.
The new standard was issued in November 2009 and is not expected to have an impact on the Group.
as the first step in the International Accounting Standard IFRIC19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Boards IASB project to replace IAS39 Financial Instruments: Instruments applies to the Group from 1 July 2010.
IFRS9 introduces new interpretation clarifies the accounting requirements when requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets.
equity instruments are issued to extinguish financial liabilities.
The IASB is expected to expand IFRS9 during 2010 to add The interpretation is not expected to have an impact on the new requirements for classifying and measuring financial Group on implementation, although it may impact the liabilities, derecognition of financial instruments, impairment accounting for future issues of equity instruments.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the standard on the Groups results and financial position and will continue to assess the impact as the standard is revised by the IASB.
IAS24 Revised Related Party Transactions will apply to the Group from 1 July 2011.
The revised standard is expected to impact upon the Group by requiring additional disclosures in the annual financial statements.
Improvements to IFRSs, issued in April 2009, is the 2009 tranche of the Improvements to IFRS project and includes a number of minor amendments to existing IAS and IFRS, which require implementation from 1 July 2010.
The impact of these amendments is currently being assessed by the Group.
Improvements to IFRSs, issued in May 2010, is the 2010 tranche of the Improvements to IFRS project and includes a number of minor amendments to existing IAS and IFRS, which require implementation from 1 July 2011.
The adoption of the following standards, amendments and interpretations are not expected to have any material impact on the financial statements of the Group: An amendment to IFRS2 Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions clarifies how individual subsidiary companies in a group should account for some share-based payment arrangements in its own financial statements.
The amendment will apply to the Group from 1 July 2010 and has no impact upon the Group.
Amendments to IFRS1 Additional Exemptions for First-time Adopters and Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters.
The amendments, which will apply to the Group from 1 July 2010, relate solely to first time adopters of IFRS and therefore have no impact on the Group.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010
