finAnciAl stAtements 69 critical accountinG JuDGements anD KeY sources of estimation uncertaintY In accordance with the requirements of IFRS, the Group recognition of profit where developments has detailed below the critical accounting judgements made are accounted for under ias11 and the key sources of estimation uncertainty within these construction contracts financial statements.
The Group applies its policy on contract accounting when recognising revenue and profit on partially completed contracts.
critical accounting judgements The application of this policy requires judgements to be made In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, in respect of the total expected costs to complete each site.
which are described in the accounting policies note, the The Group has in place established internal control processes Directors have made no individual judgements that have a to ensure that the evaluation of costs and revenues are based significant impact upon the financial statements, apart from upon appropriate estimates.
those involving estimations, which are dealt with below.
impairment of goodwill Key sources of estimation uncertainty The determination of the impairment of goodwill of the The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key housebuilding business requires an estimation of the value-insources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet dates use of the housebuilding cash-generating unit as defined in are discussed below.
The value-in-use calculation requires an estimate of the future cash flows expected from the housebuilding carrying-value of land and work in business, including the anticipated growth rate of revenue and progress costs, and requires the determination of a suitable discount rate The Groups principal activity is housebuilding and commercial to calculate the present value of the cash flows.
Due to the nature of this activity, much of the rate used is one applicable to the existing capital structure of development entered into by the Group is speculative in nature.
the Group at the balance sheet date.
The carrying amount of Accordingly, the Group has in its balance sheet at 30 June goodwill at 30 June 2010 was 792.2m with no impairment 2010 current assets that are not covered by a forward sale.
recognised during the year ended 30 June 2010.
The Groups internal controls are designed to identify any developments where the carrying-value of land and work in impairment of brands progress is more than the lower of cost or net realisable value.
The determination of the impairment calculation for the Groups indefinite life brand, David Wilson Homes, requires In respect of the years ended 30 June 2009 and 30 June 2010, an estimation of the value-in-use of the brand as defined in the Group conducted six-monthly reviews of the net realisable note 11.
The value-in-use calculation requires an estimate value of its land and work in progress carrying-values of its sites of the future cash flows expected from this brand, including in light of the deterioration in the UK housing market.
Where the the anticipated growth rate of revenue and costs, and requires estimated net realisable value of the site was less than its the determination of a suitable discount rate to calculate the current carrying-value within the balance sheet, the Group present value of the cash flows.
The discount rate used is impaired the land and work in progress value.
This resulted in one applicable to the existing capital structure which may an exceptional impairment of 499.5m in the year ended 30 impact on the Groups discount rate in future periods.
The June 2009 as shown in note 17 and 4.8m in the year ended carrying amount of indefinite life brands at 30 June 2010 30 June 2010.
These reviews were conducted on a site-by-site was 100.0m with no impairment recognised during the year basis using valuations incorporating forecast sales rates, ended 30 June 2010. average selling prices and estimated costs to complete that reflected both current and anticipated trading conditions.
These Deferred tax assets are key judgements in the impairment calculation.
Should there At 30 June 2010 the Group recognised a net deferred tax be further significant movements in UK house prices then asset of 173.3m.
176.7m related to losses that arose during further impairments reversals of previous gross impairments of the year and preceding year that are to be carried forward and land and work in progress may be necessary.
relieved against profits arising in future periods.
The judgement to recognise the deferred tax asset is dependent upon the estimation of costs to complete Groups expectations regarding future profitability based upon In order to determine the profit that the Group is able to site revenue and cost forecasts for future years which contain recognise on its developments in a specific period, the Group a degree of inherent uncertainty.
has to allocate site-wide development costs between units built in the current year and in future years.
It also has to estimate Defined benefit pension costs to complete on such developments.
In making these The Directors engage a qualified independent actuary to assessments there is a degree of inherent uncertainty.
The calculate the Groups liability in respect of its defined benefit Group has developed internal controls to assess and review pension scheme.
In calculating this liability it is necessary for carrying-values and appropriateness of estimates made.
actuarial assumptions to be made, which include discount rates, salary and pension increases, price inflation, the Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 70 financial statements critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty long-term rate of return upon scheme assets and mortality.
As actual rates of increase and mortality may differ from those assumed, the pension liability may differ from that included in these financial statements.
hedge accounting The majority of the Groups facilities are floating rate, which exposes the Group to increased interest rate risk.
The Group has therefore taken out 480.0m note 24 of floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps.
The Group has adopted hedge accounting for these swaps on the basis that it is highly probable that there is sufficient forecast debt to match with the period of swaps.
If the highly probable criterion was not met in future then any changes in fair value of the swaps would be recognised in the income statement, rather than in equity.
During the year ended 30 June 2010, there was a loss of 31.2m 2009: 81.0m included in equity related to these swaps.
Swaps with a notional amount of 285.0m were cancelled during the half year ended 31 December 2009 following prepayment of part of the Groups sterling borrowings from the net proceeds of the Placing and the Rights Issue.
Cumulative losses on interest rate swaps of 47.1m were recognised in the income statement following these cancellations.
In addition, the Group has entered into $187.2m 2009: $271.6m of cross currency swaps to manage the cash flow risks related to foreign exchange, arising from the Groups sources of US Dollar denominated finance.
These swaps are designated as a cash flow hedge against future foreign exchange rate movements.
If the hedges ceased to be highly effective then any changes in fair value of the swaps would be recognised in the income statement, rather than equity.
During the year ended 30 June 2010, there was a gain of 13.6m 2009: 30.3m included in equity related to these swaps.
A gain of 11.9m 2009: 7.2m was realised upon cancellation of $103.9m of foreign exchange swaps following repayment of $103.9m US Dollar private placement notes on 16 November 2009. available for sale financial assets The Group holds available for sale financial assets principally comprising interest free loans granted as part of sales transactions that are secured by way of a second legal charge on the respective property.
The loans are held at the present value of expected future cash flows taking into account the estimated market value of the property at the estimated time of repayment.
At 30 June 2010 the asset recognised on the balance sheet was 136.3m 2009: 86.5m.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010
