How to Invest As well as investing in F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited directly through a stockbroker, there are some additional benefits of investing through one of the savings plans run by F&C Management Limited F&C.
You can enjoy the convenience of making regular savings by Direct Debit, take advantage of our tax-efficient ISA wrapper, receive a simple statement every six months and let us automatically reinvest your dividends for you.
Potential investors are reminded that the value of F&C Private Investor Plan investments and the income from them may go A flexible, low cost way to invest with a lump down as well as up and you may not receive back sum from 500 or regular savings from 50 a the full amount originally invested.
You can also make additional lump reliefs depend on the circumstances of the sum top-ups at anytime from 250. individual.
Low charges F&C lnvestment Trust ISA All the plans are low cost and flexible.
When you buy or sell shares in these plans the dealing fee is Use your ISA allowance to invest up to only 0.2 per cent.
Government stamp duty of 10,200 increasing to 10,680 for the 0.5 per cent also applies on purchases where 2011 12 tax year tax efficiently each year applicable.
There are no initial or exit charges.
The with a lump sum from 500 or regular only annual management fee is on the ISA, which is savings from 50 a month.
You can also 60 VAT no matter how many ISAs you take out make additional lump sum top-ups at anytime annually with F&C, or how many lSAs you transfer.
from 250 and transfer any existing ISAs to The CTF has no initial charges, dealing charges or us whilst maintaining all the tax benefits.
How to Invest F&C Child Trust Fund CTF You can invest in all our savings plans online, F&C is a leading provider of CTFs which can except for the CTF.
Its simple to register and invest using your debit card.
Alternatively, please be opened for all children born between contact us for application forms.
1 September 2002 and 31 December 2010, using the governments CTF voucher.
The New Customers: maximum that can be invested annually is Contact our Investor Services Team: 1,200 and, depending on the type of CTF Call: 0800 136 420 opened, investments can start from as little Email: info@fandc.
com Existing Plan Holders: F&C Childrens lnvestment Plan Contact our Investor Services Team: Aimed at older children ineligible for a CTF, or if you need access to the funds before the Call: 0845 600 3030 child is 18.
This flexible plan can easily be Email: investor.
com written under trust to help reduce inheritance By post: F&C Plan Administration Centre tax liability.
Investments can be made from a Block C, Western House Lynch Wood Business Park 250 lump sum or 25 a month.
You can Peterborough, PE2 6BP also make additional lump sum top-ups at anytime from 100.
If you have trouble reading small print, please let us know.
We can provide literature in alternative formats, for example large print or on audiotape.
The above has been approved by F&C Management Limited which is a member of the F&C Asset Management Group and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
52 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Corporate Information Directors Property Valuers John H Stephen Chairman DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited Jonathan G Hooley 48 Warwick Street Peter Niven London W1B 5NL Christopher Russell ` Brian W Sweetland Auditor Nicholas J M Tostevin # KPMG Channel Islands Limited 20 New Street St. Peter Port Secretary and Registrars Guernsey GY1 4AN Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited Guernsey Legal Advisers Trafalgar Court Mourant Ozannes Les Banques 1 Le Marchant Street St. Peter Port St. Peter Port Guernsey, Channel Islands Guernsey GY1 4HP UK Legal Advisers Registered Office Dickson Minto WS Trafalgar Court 16 Charlotte Square Les Banques Edinburgh EH2 4DF St. Peter Port Guernsey, Channel Islands Bond Trustee The Bank of New York Investment Managers One Canada Square F&C Investment Business Limited London E14 5AL 80 George Street Edinburgh EH2 3BU Broker and Financial Adviser Winterflood Securities Limited Property Managers The Atrium Building F&C REIT Property Asset Management plc Cannon Bridge House 5 Wigmore Street 25 Dowgate Hill London W1U 1PB London EC4R 2GA Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee ` Deputy Chairman # Chairman of the Audit Committee Website www.
co. uk MLGEdinburgh 8701 Registered Office Trafalgar Court Les Banques St. Peter Port Guernsey, Channel Islands Registrars Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited Trafalgar Court Les Banques St. Peter Port Guernsey, Channel Islands Telephone: 01481 745001
