Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of a expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited will be held at Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port, Guernsey, resolution or on the expiry of 15 months from the Channel Islands on Thursday, 19 May 2011 at 4.30 pm for passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, the following purposes.
save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such Ordinary Business expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if Ordinary Resolutions: the power conferred hereby had not expired: and b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities 1.
That the Annual Report and Accounts for the year up to an aggregate nominal value 680,537 being ended 31 December 2010 be received and approved.
approximately 10 per cent of the nominal value of the issued share capital of the Company, as at 2.
That Mr M R Moore, who retires at the first Annual 22 March 2011.
General Meeting following his appointment, be re-elected as a Director.
That the Company be authorised, in accordance with section 315 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, 3.
That Mr P Niven, who retires annually, be re-elected as to make market acquisitions within the meaning of a Director.
section 316 1 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 of ordinary shares of 1p each Ordinary 4.
That Mr B W Sweetland, who retires annually, be Shares either for retention as treasury shares for re-elected as a Director.
future resale or transfer, or cancellation, provided that: 5.
That Mr N J M Tostevin, who retires annually, be a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby re-elected as a Director.
authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99 per cent of the issued Ordinary Shares on the date on which 6.
That Mr J G Hooley, who retires annually, be this resolution is passed: re-elected as a Director.
b the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be 1p: 7.
That Mr C Russell, who retires annually, be re-elected c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which as a Director.
may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be 105 per 8.
That KPMG Channel Islands Limited be re-appointed cent of the average of the middle market quotations as auditor.
as derived from the Daily Official List for the Ordinary Shares for the five business days 9.
That the Directors be authorised to determine the immediately preceding the date of purchase: and auditors remuneration.
d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Special Resolutions: Company to be held in 2012, or on 19 November 2012, whichever is the earlier, save that the 10.
That the Directors of the Company be and they are Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a hereby generally empowered, to allot ordinary shares in contract to purchase Ordinary Shares under such the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or to authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary convert securities into, ordinary shares in the Company Shares pursuant to any such contract.
equity securities, including the grant of rights to subscribe for, or to convert securities into ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for Special Business cash as if any pre-emption rights in relation to the issue of shares as set out in the listing rules made by To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as an the Financial Services Authority under part VI of the Ordinary Resolution: Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended did not apply to any such allotment of equity securities, 12.
That the waiver granted by the Panel on Takeovers provided that this power: and Mergers of the obligations which may otherwise Annual Report and Accounts 2010 49 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes: arise, pursuant to Rule 9 of the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers, for the Resolution Concert 1.
A member who is entitled to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to Party as defined in the circular to shareholders of the attend, speak and vote instead of him or her.
A proxy Company to be dated on or around the date hereof need not be a member of the Company.
the Circular to make a general offer to the shareholders of the Company for all of the issued 2.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each ordinary shares in the capital of the Company as a proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
result of the purchase by the Company of up to 102,012,496 ordinary shares in the Company pursuant 3.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
The to the authority granted by the passing of resolution 11 form of proxy should be completed and sent, together above, as more fully described in the Circular, be and with the power of attorney or other authority if any under is hereby approved, with such waiver to expire at the which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, so as to reach the Companys conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the registrars Computershare Investor Services Plc, The Company in 2012.
Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY not later than 4.30 pm on 17 May 2011.
Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent Northern Trust International Fund Administration a member from attending in person at the Meeting and voting should he or she so wish.
To have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting and also for the purposes of calculating how many votes a Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port member may cast on a poll a member must first have his Guernsey, Channel Islands or her name entered on the register of members not later than close of business on 17 May 2011.
Changes to entries in the register after that time shall be 22 March 2011 disregarded in determining the rights of any member to attend and vote at such Meeting.
In order to comply with the Takeover Code, resolution 12 above will be taken on a poll and each of the members of the Resolution Concert Party and Mr Peter Niven have undertaken not to vote on the resolution.
As at 22 March 2011, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 680,537,003 Ordinary Shares in issue.
The number of shares with voting rights was 680,537,003, each carrying one voting right.
Any person holding 3 per cent or more of the total voting rights in the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Articles of Incorporation and the Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection from 15 minutes prior to, and at, the Annual General Meeting.
