Directors Responsibilities financial statements comply with The Companies Directors Responsibilities for the Annual Guernsey Law, 2008.
They have a general Report and Accounts responsibility for taking such steps as are The Directors are responsible for preparing the reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of Report of the Directors and the financial statements the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Guernsey company law requires the Directors to Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors prepare consolidated financial statements for each are also responsible for preparing a Directors financial year.
Under that law they have elected to Report including a Business Review and Corporate prepare the financial statements in accordance with Governance Statement that comply with these laws International Financial Reporting Standards and and those regulations.
The consolidated financial statements are required Directors Responsibility Statement by law to give a true and fair view of the state of We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, In preparing these consolidated financial statements, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, the Directors are required to: financial position and profit or loss of the Group included in the consolidation taken as a whole:.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply and them consistently:.
the Chairmans Statement and Report of the.
make judgements and estimates that are Directors include a fair review of the development reasonable and prudent: and performance of the business and the position.
state whether applicable accounting standards of the Group included in the consolidation taken have been followed, subject to any material as a whole together with a description of the departures disclosed and explained in the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
financial statements: and On behalf of the Board.
prepare the consolidated financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper N J M Tostevin accounting records which disclose with reasonable Director accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the 22 March 2011 26 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
