66 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting policies The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when a Basis of preparation assessing whether the group controls another entity.
Grainger plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which the UK.
It is a public limited liability company listed on the control is transferred to the group.
They are fide-consolidated London Stock Exchange and the address of the registered from the date control ceases.
The group financial statements Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains consolidate those of the company and its subsidiaries, on transactions between group companies are eliminated on together referred to as the group, and equity account the consolidation.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The parent changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the company financial statements present information about policies adopted by the group.
the company and not about its group.
ii Goodwill and impairment The group financial statements have been prepared in The purchase method of accounting is used to account for accordance with EU endorsed International Financial the acquisition of subsidiaries by the group.
The cost of the Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to and equity instruments issued.
Identifiable assets acquired companies reporting under IFRS.
The company has elected and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business to prepare its company financial statements in accordance combination are measured initially at their fair values at the with UK GAAP.
These are presented on pages 132 to 139. date of acquisition.
Goodwill represents the excess of the The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the groups share stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in of net identifiable assets including intangible assets of the the group financial statements.
acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
If the cost of the The group financial statements have been prepared under acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the the historical cost convention except for the following assets subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in and liabilities which are stated at their fair value: investment the income statement.
Costs attributable to an acquisition property, derivative financial instruments, financial interest are expensed in the consolidated income statement under in property assets, share-based payments and pensions.
the heading other income and expenses.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisition of joint ventures and assumptions that affect the application of accounting and associates is included in investments in joint ventures policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and associates.
Although these estimates are based Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the on managements best knowledge of the events and purpose of impairment testing and is tested annually for amounts involved, actual results ultimately may differ from impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
statements are disclosed in Note 2. iii Joint ventures and associates b Basis of consolidation Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities i Subsidiaries the group has joint control, established by contractual Subsidiaries are all entities including special purposes agreement.
Associates are those entities over which the entities over which the group has the power to govern the group has significant influence but not control, generally financial and operating policies generally accompanying a accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 67 Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted The group has identified six such segments as follows: for by the equity method of accounting and are initially UK residential: recognised at cost.
The groups investment in joint ventures Retirement solutions: and associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated Property services: impairment loss identified on acquisition.
Fund management residential investments: The groups share of its joint ventures and associates UK and European development: and post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income German residential.
statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in All of the above segments are UK based except German reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative postresidential which has its assets and tenants based in acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying Germany and UK and European development which amount of the investment.
includes assets based in the Czech Republic.
More detail Unrealised gains on transactions between the group and its is given relating to each of the above segments, and their joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent geographical split in the chief executive and operating of the groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
review on pages 10 to 17 of this document and in note 4.
The accounting policies of joint ventures and associates The group has a segment director responsible for the have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency performance of each of these six segments and the group with the policies adopted by the group.
reports key financial information to the CODM on the basis iv Transactions with non-controlling interests of these six segments.
Each of these six segments operate The group applies a policy of treating transactions with within a different part of the overall residential market.
non-controlling interests as transactions with parties external The title All other segments has been included in the to the group.
Disposals to non-controlling interests result in segmental tables in note 4 to reconcile the segments to the gains or losses for the group that are recorded in the income figures reviewed by the CODM.
On acquisition of non-controlling interests, where The measure of profit or loss used by the CODM is the the consideration paid exceeds the relevant share acquired trading profit or loss before valuation gains or deficits on of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary the investment property and excluding all revaluation and nondifference is recorded in equity as a deduction from recurring items as set out in note 3.
The CODM reviews by retained earnings.
segment two key balance sheet measures of net asset value.
c Segmental reporting These are gross net asset value NAV and triple net asset The groups risks and rates of return are affected value NNNAV measures.
Both measures include trading predominantly by differences between the property asset stock at market value as opposed to the lower of cost and types it owns and manages.
A business segment is a net realisable value.
Further information on the calculation distinguishable group of assets and operations, reflected in of these measures is provided in note 4 on page 82. the way that the group manages its business, that is subject Information relating to the groups operating segments is set to risks and returns that are different from those of other out in note 4.
Comparatives have been restated to conform business segments.
with the requirement of IFRS 8.
The group has adopted IFRS 8, Operating Segments IFRS 8 for these financial statements.
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified based upon the groups internal reporting to the chief operating decision maker CODM to make decisions about resources to be allocated to segments and to assess their performance.
The groups CODM is the chief executive officer.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 68 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued f Investment property Property that is held for long-term rental yields or for d Share capital capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs the companies in the consolidated group, is classified as directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options investment property.
are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from Investment property is measured initially at its cost, including the proceeds.
e Foreign currency translation After initial recognition, investment property is carried at fair i Functional and presentation currency value.
Fair value is based on active market prices, adjusted, Items included in the financial statements of each of the if necessary, for any difference in the nature, location or groups entities are measured using the currency of the condition of the specified asset.
If this information is not primary economic environment in which the entity operates available, the group uses alternative valuation methods such the functional currency.
The consolidated financial as recent prices on less active markets or discounted cash statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the flow projections.
companys functional and presentation currency.
Subsequent expenditure is included in the carrying amount of the property when it is probable that future economic ii Foreign currency transactions benefits associated with the item will flow to the group Foreign currency transactions are translated at the foreign and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign statement during the financial period in which they currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into are incurred.
sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the settlement of such transactions are recognised in the groups investment properties are included in the income income statement.
statement of the period in which they arise.
iii Foreign operations g Property, plant and equipment The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, less subsequent depreciation and impairment.
Cost includes are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition the balance sheet date.
Revenues and expenses of foreign of the items.
operations are translated at average foreign exchange rates Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount for the relevant period.
or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when iv Net investment hedges it is probable that the future economic benefits associated Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are with the item will flow to the group and the cost of the item accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion costs are charged to the income statement during the of the hedge is recognised in equity within the translation financial period in which they are incurred.
reserve as part of retained earnings.
Any gain or loss relating Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated to the ineffective portion is recognised in the income using the straight-line method to allocate their cost less statement within other interest payable.
Gains and losses residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: accumulated in equity are included in the income statement Fixtures, fittings and equipment Five years when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 69 h Financial interest in property assets j Cash and cash equivalents Financial interest in property assets is initially recognised at Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently carried held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the net investments with original maturities of three months or less.
change in value is recorded through the income statement k Income tax as follows: i the carrying value of the asset is increased by Income tax on the profits or losses for the periods presented the effective interest rate and ii the carrying value of the comprises both current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the asset is revised to the net present value of the revised cash expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year flows arising from the instrument using the effective interest using rates applicable at the balance sheet date.
Tax payable rate applicable at acquisition.
The change in value recorded upon the realisation of revaluation gains recognised in prior through the income statement is shown on the line interest periods is recorded as a current tax charge with a release of income from financial interest in property assets.
Differences between the revised cash flows using the Deferred income tax is provided using the balance sheet effective interest rate applicable at acquisition compared to liability method.
Provision is made for temporary differences revised cash flows using a year end effective interest rate, between the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the assessed as the rate available in the market for an instrument consolidated financial statements and the values used for with a similar maturity and credit risk, are taken through tax purposes.
Deferred income tax is calculated after taking equity.
When gains or losses in the assets are realised, the account of any indexation allowances and capital losses.
The accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected included in the income statement as gains and losses from manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount financial interest in property assets.
of assets and liabilities and is calculated using rates enacted i Inventories trading property or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date in the tax Tenanted residential properties held for sale in the normal jurisdiction in which the temporary differences arise.
course of business are shown in the financial statements at Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes legal that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available and surveying charges incurred during acquisition together against which the assets can be used.
The deferred income with improvement costs.
Net realisable value is the net sale tax assets and liabilities are only offset if there is a legally proceeds which the group expects on sale of a property with enforceable right of set off.
l Employee benefits Land and property held within the development segment i Defined contribution pension scheme of the business, including house-building sites, are shown Obligations for contributions to defined contribution in the financial statements at the lower of cost and net pension schemes are recognised as an expense in the realisable value.
Cost represents the acquisition price income statement in the period to which they relate.
including legal and other professional costs associated with the acquisition, subsequent development costs and ii Defined benefit pension scheme capitalised borrowing costs directly attributable to the The group currently contributes to a defined benefit pension acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying scheme that was closed to new members and employee asset, net of amounts transferred to costs of sale.
The full deficit in the scheme was realisable value is the expected net sales proceeds of the recognised in the balance sheet as at 1 October 2004. developed property.
An actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out every Where residential properties are sold tenanted or where three years.
However, the valuation is updated annually land is sold without development, net realisable value is by a qualified actuary for the purpose of determining the the current market value net of associated selling costs.
amounts to be reflected in the groups financial statements under IAS 19.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 70 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued iii Service charges The group is responsible for providing service charge services The liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present in both the UK and in Germany.
Where Grainger is exposed value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet to the significant risks and rewards associated with the date less the fair value of scheme assets.
rendering of services it is acting as principal.
Otherwise There are no current or past service costs as the scheme it is acting as agent.
is closed to new members and employee contributions.
In the UK, Grainger acts primarily as agent.
Accordingly, Interest on pension scheme liabilities and the expected service charge income and costs are shown net in the return on pension scheme assets are reflected in the balance sheet.
Where recovery of service charges is doubtful income statement each year.
Actuarial gains and losses net a provision for impairment is made.
Any management fees of deferred income tax are reflected in the consolidated earned are recognised in the income statement on an statement of comprehensive income each year.
iii Share-based compensation In Germany, Grainger acts primarily as principal.
Accordingly, The group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based service charge income and costs are shown gross in the compensation plans comprising awards under a long-term income statement with service charge recoveries from incentive scheme LTIS, a deferred bonus plan DBP, a tenants recorded as a component of group revenue.
Where share incentive plan and a save as you earn SAYE scheme.
recovery of service charges is doubtful a provision for The fair value of the employee services received in exchange impairment is made.
for the grant of shares and options is recognised as an Other income is accounted for as follows: employee expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value i Income from property trading of the shares and options granted, excluding the impact of Profits or losses arising from the sale of trading and any non-market vesting conditions.
Non-market vesting investment property are included in the income statement conditions are included in assumptions about the number where contract completion has taken place, are calculated of options that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet by reference to their carrying value and are included in date, the group revises its estimate of the number of options operating profit.
that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the ii Income from investments revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement Dividend income from investments is recognised when the with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Awards that are subject to a market-based performance condition are valued at fair value using the Black-Scholes n Leases valuation model.
i Group as lessor When options are exercised the proceeds received net of any The net present value of ground rents receivable is, in the directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share opinion of the directors, immaterial.
Accordingly, ground capital nominal value and share premium.
rents receivable are taken to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Properties m Revenue recognition leased out to tenants are included in the balance sheet Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration as either investment property or as trading property received or receivable and is stated net of sales taxes and under inventories.
Revenue is recognised as follows: Where the group grants a lifetime lease on an investment i Rental and similar income property and receives from the lessee an upfront payment Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a in respect of the grant of the lease, the upfront payment is straight-line basis over the lease term on an accruals basis.
treated as deferred rent in the balance sheet.
This deferred rent is released to the income statement on a straight-line ii Management fee income basis over the projected term of the lease.
At each year end Management fee income is recognised in the accounting the projected term of the lease is revised on an actuarial period in which the services are rendered.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 71 basis and the remaining deferred rent is released to the ii Fair value estimation income statement on a straight-line basis over this revised The fair value of interest rate swaps is based on a discounted lease term.
cash flow model using quoted market information.
ii Group as lessee iii Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities The group occupies a number of its offices as a lessee.
Derecognition is the point at which the group removes an After a review of all of its occupational leases, the directors asset or a liability from its balance sheet.
The groups policy have concluded that all such leases are operating leases.
is to derecognise financial assets only when the contractual Payments, including prepayments, made under operating right to the cash flows from the financial asset expires.
leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are The group also derecognises financial assets that it transfers charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis to another party provided the transfer of the assets also over the period the lease.
transfers the right to receive cash flows from the financial asset.
When the transfer does not result in the group The net present value of ground rents payable is, in the transferring the right to receive cash flows from the opinion of the directors, immaterial.
Accordingly, ground financial asset but it does result in the group assuming rent expenses are taken to the income statement on a a corresponding obligation to pay cash flows to another straight-line basis over the lease term.
recipient, the financial asset is derecognised.
o Derivative financial instruments The group derecognises financial liabilities only when its i Derivatives obligation is discharged, is cancelled or expires.
The group uses derivative instruments to help manage its Financial assets classified as fair value through profit and interest rate risk.
In accordance with its treasury policy, loss are the derivative financial instruments not in hedge the group does not hold or issue derivatives for trading accounting relationships.
Derivatives are classified as current assets and p At fair value through profit or loss financial assets current liabilities.
At fair value through profit or loss financial assets are The derivatives are recognised initially at fair value.
included in the balance sheet at fair value with changes in Subsequently, the gain or loss on remeasurement to fair fair value taken through the income statement.
At fair value value is recognised immediately in the income statement, through profit or loss financial assets are managed, and their unless the derivatives qualify for cash flow hedge accounting performance is evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance in which case any gain or loss is taken to equity in a cash with the groups documented investment policy.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the group is q Borrowings required to document in advance the relationship between Borrowings are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The of consideration received, net of transaction costs incurred.
group is also required to demonstrate that the hedge will Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs testing is reperformed at each period end to ensure that and the redemption value is recognised in the income the hedge remains highly effective.
statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
When a hedging instrument is broken or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the in equity and is recognised in the income statement over the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
original life of the instrument.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 72 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued w Assets and liabilities held for sale Where a group of assets and liabilities are to be disposed r Convertible bond of by sale together or as a single group, they are classified The convertible bond is a compound financial instrument as a disposal group.
The disposal group is classified as and the carrying amount has been allocated to its equity and held for sale as defined by IFRS 5 when they are available liability components in the group balance sheet.
The liability for sale in their present condition and the sale is highly component has been determined by measuring the fair value probable and expected to be completed within one year of a similar liability that does not have an associated equity from the date of classification.
The discount rate used for this was based on a rate of 7.5% compounded semi-annually.
The liability x Acquisition of and investment in own shares component has been deducted from the fair value of the The group acquires its own shares to enable it to meet compound financial instrument as a whole and the residual its obligations under its equity-settled share-based element has been assigned to the equity component.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit liability element is subsequently measured at amortised cost or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the using the effective interest rate method.
The acquisition cost of the shares is debited to an investment in own shares reserve within s Trade receivables retained earnings.
When shares are issued to employees, Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and a transfer is made at the average cost of the shares issued subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective between the investment in own shares reserve and the interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision share-based payments reserve all within retained earnings for impairment in trade receivables is established when see note 33. there is objective evidence that the group will not be able Where the group buys back its own shares as treasury to collect all amounts due.
The amount of the provision is shares it adopts the accounting as described above.
Where the difference between the assets carrying amount and the it subsequently cancels them, issued share capital is reduced present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at by the nominal value of the shares cancelled and this same the effective interest rate.
The movement in the provision is amount is transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
recognised in the income statement.
y Impact of standards and interpretations in issue t Trade payables but not yet effective Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and At the date of authorisation of these financial statements subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective there are a number of standards, amendments and interest method.
interpretations to existing standards that have been u Provisions published but which are not yet effective and which have Provisions are recognised when a the group has a present not been early adopted by the group.
These are as follows: obligation as a result of a past event and b it is probable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the IFRS 9, Financial instruments the impact of IFRS 9 on obligation and c a reliable estimate can be made of the the group financial statements is currently being assessed.
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee v Dividends IFRIC interpretations Interim dividend distributions to the companys shareholders IFRIC 15, Agreements for construction of real estates: are recognised in the group financial statements when paid.
IFRIC 18, Transfer of assets from customers: Final dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in Amendment to IFRIC 14, Prepayments of a minimum the group financial statements in the period in which the funding requirement: and dividends either are approved by the companys shareholders or are appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the group.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 73 IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity IAS 1 revised, Presentation of financial statements instruments.
This revised standard requires the introduction of a statement of comprehensive Amendments to existing standards income along with voluntary changes in the titles of Annual improvements 2010: some of the financial statements and the requirement to Amendment to IFRS 2, Share-based payments group aggregate information in the financial statements on the cash-settled share-based payment transactions: basis of shared characteristics.
This standard has therefore Amendments to IFRS 1 for additional exemptions: resulted in changes to the statement of recognised income Amendment to IAS 24, Related Party disclosures: and and expense which has been split into two statements: one showing changes in equity resulting from transactions Amendment to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition not reflected in the income statement and the other and Measurement.
showing changes in equity resulting from transactions All the above IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and amendments with shareholders.
The statement of changes in equity has to existing standards are yet to be endorsed by the now become a primary statement in the groups results.
European Union EU at the date of approval of these IAS 23 revised, Borrowing costs effective from financial statements.
This revised standard requires an entity z Impact of new standards, interpretations, revisions to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the and amendments mandatory for the group this year acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying At the date of approval of these financial statements, the asset as part of the cost of the asset.
A qualifying asset is following new standards, interpretations, revisions and one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready amendments were issued, endorsed by the EU and are for use or sale.
The option of immediately expensing these mandatory for the group for the first time for the financial borrowing costs is removed.
This revised standard has year beginning 1 October 2009. been applied to the group from 1 October 2009 but has International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS had no material impact on these financial statements.
IAS 27 revised Consolidated and separate financial IFRS 3 revised Business combinations effective from statements effective from 1 July 2009.
This revised I July 2009 and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate standard requires the effects of all transactions with Financial Statements effective from 1 January 2009. non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there Some of the key changes are: i the requirement to is no change in control.
They will no longer result in measure all consideration at fair value at acquisition goodwill or gains and losses.
The standard also specifies date, with any subsequent changes e. g. contingent the accounting when control is lost.
Any remaining consideration remeasured at fair value through income interest in the entity is re-measured to fair value and a ii the expensing of all transaction costs iii stepped gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
This revised acquisitions to be accounted for as a disposal of existing standard has been applied to the group from 1 October interests and an acquisition of an enlarged interest, giving 2009 but has had no material impact on these financial rise to potential profits or losses on disposal of the existing statements.
The expensing of transaction costs has been applied in these financial statements although the impact IFRS 1 revised First time adoption.
This revised standard has not been material.
does not contain any technical changes as it only improves the structure, which had become complex due to the IFRS 8, Operating segments effective from 1 January numerous amendments in recent years.
IFRS 8 amends the current segmental reporting the groups results.
requirements of IAS 14 and aligns segment reporting with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131.
It requires International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee a management approach to be adopted so that segment IFRIC interpretations information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
This standard has been applied in these financial statements and further information is provided in note 4.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 74 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued detail relating to those accounting policies that management consider critical because of the level of complexity, IFRIC 12, Service concession arrangements: judgement or estimation involved in their application and IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes relating to their impact on the consolidated financial statements.
IAS 18, Revenue: IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit of a defined benefit asset, Property valuations minimum funding requirements and their interaction: After a review by the directors, the valuations performed by IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign the groups own in-house qualified surveying team are used operation: and to value the UK based property as at 30 September 2010.
A structured sample of the in-house valuations are checked IFRIC 17, Distributions of non-cash assets to owners.
by Allsop LLP, an external independent valuer.
Allsop LLP These interpretations have no material impact on the groups has provided the directors with the following opinion financial statements.
on the directors valuation of the groups UK property, Amendments to existing standards Property held in the UK residential and retirement Amendment to IFRS 1 First time adoption of IFRS and solutions portfolios was valued as at 30 September 2010 IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements by Graingers in-house surveyors.
These valuations were on the Cost of an investment in a subsidiary, jointly reviewed and approved by the directors.
Allsop LLP has controlled entity or associate: undertaken a comprehensive review of the directors valuation and they are satisfied with the process by which Amendments to IAS 32, Financial instruments: the in-house valuations were conducted.
As part of the Presentation on classification of rights issues and IAS 1, review, Allsop LLP valued approximately 50% of the UK Presentation of financial statements on puttable financial residential portfolio and approximately 33% of the instruments and obligations arising on liquidation: retirement solutions portfolio, independently of the group.
Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures.
Allsop LLP has concluded that they have a high degree of This amendment has changed the IFRS 7 disclosure confidence in the totals reported by the directors in the UK requirements in the financial statements.
The main impact residential and retirement solutions portfolios.
will be the classification of fair value assets and liabilities against a fair value hierarchy: and Valuing the large number of properties in the portfolio is Amendment to IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition a significant task.
For this reason, and because we have and measurement: Eligible hedged items.
no right to internal access, it is undertaken on an external inspection basis only.
Invariably, when the in-house The amendments to these standards have had no material valuations are compared to those of the external valuer, financial impact on these financial statements.
over 95% of the valuations are within a small acceptable The directors anticipate that the future adoption of those tolerance.
Where the difference is more significant this is standards, interpretations, revisions and amendments listed discussed with the valuer to determine the reasons for the above will not have a material impact on the groups difference.
Typically the reasons vary but it could be, for accounts except for IFRS 3 R and IAS 23 R which will example, that further or better information about internal result in, amongst other things, acquisition costs on future condition is available or that respective valuers have placed acquisitions being expensed to the income statement as a different interpretation on comparable sales.
Once such incurred instead of being included in the calculation of reasons have been identified the group and the valuer purchased goodwill and borrowing costs on development agree the appropriate valuation that should be adopted.
assets being capitalised instead of expensed as incurred.
Overall, across all of the properties valued by Allsop LLP, 2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions the directors valuations were 1.69% lower than the Allsop LLP values.
The groups significant accounting policies are stated in note 1 above.
Not all of these accounting policies require management to make subjective or complex judgements or estimates.
The following is intended to provide further GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 75 i Investment Property portfolio were carried out jointly as at 31 December 2009 Investment property in the UK portfolio is valued as set out and 30 June 2010 by external valuers, Allsop LLP and DTZ under property valuations above.
In aggregate, the valuation of investment property at 30 June 2010 was 367.4m.
The net gain on valuation of the UK residential and After full consideration of house price movements in those retirement solutions portfolios as at 30 September 2010 areas where the G:res property assets are situated, and was 1.8m and this has been taken through the income evidence from the sale of G:res property assets in the three statement.
months to 30 September 2010, the groups directors made As at 30 September 2010, Cushman & Wakefield LLP, no adjustment to the 30 June 2010 valuations, other than external valuers, valued the whole of the residential portfolio for sales and purchases, in the groups accounts to in Germany at a total value of 510.0m 441.9m.
The net deficit on valuation of investment property in the Other than for sales and purchases, no adjustment has Germany portfolio as at 30 September 2010 was 2.6m been made to these valuations in the groups accounts to and this has been taken through the income statement.
Whilst in the UK valuers rely predominantly on recent The group has a 21.8% share in Schroders Residential transactional evidence for similar properties to value Property Unit Trust ResPUT.
Investment property in investment property, in Germany investment property is this Fund was valued at 0.4m by Allsop LLP as at valued using an income capitalisation approach under 30 September 2010. which net rental income is discounted to a net present value.
Both methodologies are permitted under IAS 40.
Net realisable value of trading property The groups residential trading properties are carried in the The group also has investments in joint ventures and balance sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
associates which include investment property.
Investment In assessing net realisable value the group uses valuations property held in Grainger Geninvest LLP and Grainger carried out by its own in-house qualified surveying team.
2 2006 LLP, in both of which Grainger has stated above, a structured sample of the in-house valuations a 50% share, were valued by an external valuer, Martin was checked by Allsop LLP, an external independent valuer.
Angel FRICS, of Allsop LLP as at 30 September 2010.
He has provided the directors of those entities with the following As the groups business model is to sell trading stock on opinion.
The valuations of the portfolios were made in vacancy, net realisable value is the net sales proceeds accordance with the requirements of the RICS Valuation which the group expects on sale of a property with vacant Standards and IAS 40.
The valuation of each portfolio was possession.
A net realisable value provision has been made on the basis of Market Value, subject to the assumption that at 30 September 2010 to write down properties expected to the dwellings would be sold individually, in their existing be sold ultimately at vacant possession value.
For properties condition, and subject to any existing leases or tenancies.
expected to be held beyond the immediate future, the In aggregate, across both entities, the valuation of the provision has been assessed on what the group considers investment property was 285.6m.
Allsop LLP is satisfied to be prudent assumptions.
These allow for no change to that, in respect of this valuation Market Value is the same property prices in 2011 followed by a period of price as Fair Value.
The valuers opinion of Market Value was increases thereafter in line with conservative historical house primarily derived using comparable recent market price growth rates.
The group does sell some property as transactions on arms length terms.
investment sales, a sale with the tenant still in situ.
A net realisable value provision has been made at 30 September The groups share of the investment property across 2010 against projected investment sales on the same basis both Grainger GenInvest entities of 142.8m represents as above except that net realisable value is based on market only 6% of the total market value of the groups assets at value rather than vacant possession value.
In aggregate the group is holding a provision of 3.6m in the The group has a 21.63% interest in G:res which has invested 2010 consolidated statement of financial position to adjust in investment property.
Valuations of 100% of the G:res GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 76 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The assumptions adopted with regard to house prices are continued the same as those set out under net realisable value of trading property above.
A change of 1% to average house the book value of trading properties to the lower of cost price inflation over the 10-year period from 1 October 2010 and net realisable value.
This represents a reduction in the to would either increase the valuation by 6.9m or reduce provision, compared to 30 September 2009, of 3.7m which the valuation by 6.2m.
has been credited to the consolidated income statement.
Of this amount 1.4m has been credited to profit on disposal Consideration has been given to the effective interest rate of trading property to offset losses made on property sales to adopt for the valuation.
We have concluded that the during the year.
The remaining 2.3m has been credited effective interest rate should be reduced by 0.85% as at separately under the heading write back write down of 30 September 2010 compared to the effective interest rate inventories to net realisable value.
when the financial interest was acquired.
A 1% change to the discount rate would either increase the carrying value by Land and property held within the development segment 7.6m or reduce the carrying value by 6.8m.
of the business, including house-building sites, are shown in the financial statements at the lower of cost and net Distinction between investment and trading property realisable value.
Net realisable value is the expected net sales The group considers the intention at the outset when each proceeds of the developed property and a provision is made property is acquired in order to classify the property as either when, and to the extent that, total projected project costs an investment or a trading property.
Where the intention is exceed total projected project revenues.
to either trade the property or where the property is held Where land is sold without any or further development, net for immediate sale upon receiving vacant possession within realisable value is the current market value net of associated the ordinary course of business, the property is classified as selling costs.
Where the intention is to hold the property for its long-term rental yield and or capital appreciation, the Decisions regarding whether to develop a site or to sell property is classified as an investment property.
a site undeveloped are made by the directors based on market conditions prevailing at the time.
The assumptions Income taxes adopted as at 30 September 2010 are based upon the There are some transactions and calculations that involve current intentions of the directors.
In addition, estimates a degree of estimation and judgement and whose tax at 30 September 2010 of project profitability are based treatment cannot be determined until a formal resolution on assumptions regarding projected build costs and sales has been reached with the relevant tax authorities.
In such proceeds for those sites where development is expected to cases, the groups policy is to be prudent in its assessment occur.
In some cases these projections are made without of the tax benefit that may accrue in line with the the benefit of planning permission having been agreed.
The contingent asset rules set out in IAS 37.
Where the final assumptions made may or may not be borne out in practice.
outcome of these matters is different from the amounts It is possible therefore that the net realisable value provision initially recorded, such differences will impact on the income required should be more than or less than that made.
and deferred tax amounts reflected in subsequent A credit of 0.6m has been made in the 2010 income accounting periods.
statement within the heading write back write down of Goodwill impairment inventories to net realisable value to adjust the book value Goodwill can arise when a portfolio is acquired on the of development stock to net realisable value.
acquisition of a corporate entity accounted for as a business Valuation of financial interest in property assets combination.
The goodwill arises from the difference The valuation is based on an assessment of the future cash between how deferred tax is calculated for accounting flows that will arise from our financial interest and on the purposes and the value ascribed to it in the acquisition effective interest rate used to discount those cash flows.
Generally, the value of goodwill is supported The valuation methodology adopted is set out in note 1 h by the fact that the taxation cash flows will arise in future above.
The key assumptions affecting the carrying value years and the discounted value of these cash flows is are house price inflation and the effective interest rate.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 77 significantly less than the tax actually provided.
The cash The directors have reviewed the groups financial projections generating unit for impairment testing is the portfolio covering a minimum period of two years ahead and which acquired in the relevant entity and a goodwill impairment include covenant compliance forecasts.
These projections loss arises if the carrying amount of the portfolio exceeds show that the group will comfortably meet its covenants the value in use which is determined as the present value requirements.
of the future cash flows arising.
ii Banking facilities The goodwill impairment charge in the UK residential The group has drawn core banking facilities of 101m business in 2010 relating to taxation as described above maturing in the next two financial years to 30 September was 0.1m.
The key sensitivities relating to the goodwill 2012.
The group has cash and undrawn committed facilities impairment testing are the discount rate used and the as at 30 September 2010 of 260m.
expected hold period for the assets concerned.
No further As has been demonstrated over the past two years, information is provided on grounds of immateriality.
the group is able to generate strong cash flows even in In addition to the above, goodwill of 2.7m arose in 2009 in more difficult market conditions.
The groups cash relation to the groups acquisition of 50% of the equity in a flow projections confirm that the group will remain well German property management company, Gebau Vermogen within its facilities for the next two financial years to GmbH Gebau.
The goodwill arose on the fair value of the 30 September 2012. consideration given exceeded the fair value of the groups A further 680m of facilities, drawn as at 30 September share of the net assets acquired.
The value of the goodwill 2010, are due for repayment in December 2012 and a was supported by the future discounted cash flows of Gebau.
further 275m of drawn facilities are due for repayment in Gebau is the cash generating unit for impairment testing.
Although the groups funding position is very A goodwill impairment loss arises if the carrying amount secure for the next two financial years, there is already a of the investment in Gebau exceeds the value in use focus on the need to reshape its sources of long-term determined as the present value of the future cash flows funding in an environment where traditional bank lending arising.
The goodwill impairment charge in the year relating is likely to remain constrained.
The group is already in to Gebau goodwill was 1.4m.
This resulted from a discussions to advance a number of initiatives in this regard.
reduction in projected future cash flows.
As above, no iii Re-financing of Grainger GenInvest debt further information is provided on grounds of immateriality.
The group has a 50% joint venture interest in two Going concern Grainger GenInvest LLPs see note 19.
External funding The directors are required to make an assessment of the arrangements in both entities are due for renewal within the groups ability to continue to trade as a going concern.
Total external debt in the two entities as at The directors have given this matter due consideration and 30 September 2010 was 189m.
have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the group Discussions with potential funders are reasonably advanced financial statements on a going concern basis.
The main and our expectation is that both entities will be successfully considerations were as follows: refinanced, albeit at slightly lower LTVs than is currently the case.
This will necessitate a relatively modest capital injection i Covenant compliance from the members and discussions are ongoing with our The groups core banking facility has two covenants, being joint venture partner as to how best to achieve this.
The loan-to-value LTV and interest cover.
At 30 September group will be able to meet its obligations comfortably in this 2010 the LTV ratio was 54% compared to a default level of regard from existing facilities and cash.
80% and the interest cover ratio was 2.4 times compared to a minimum requirement of 1.25 times.
In addition, the group has other bank debt on which there are covenant requirements.
As at 30 September 2010 the group is operating comfortably within these requirements.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 78 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 3 Analysis of loss before tax The results for the years ended 30 September 2009 and 2010 respectively have been significantly affected by valuation movements and non-recurring items, although the impact of these items in 2009 was much greater than it has been in 2010.
The table below provides further analysis of the consolidated income statement showing the results of trading activities separately from these other items.
2010 2009 NonNonTrading Valuation recurring Total Trading Valuation recurring Total m m m m m m m m Group revenue 244.5 244.5 302.2 302.2 Net rental income 40.8 40.8 40.2 1.7 38.5 Profit on disposal of trading property 52.8 52.8 45.3 0.4 44.9 Administrative expenses 9.2 2.0 11.2 8.2 0.7 8.9 Other income and expenses 5.9 5.9 7.3 7.3 Net gain on acquisition of subsidiary 2.8 2.8 Goodwill impairment 1.5 1.5 2.9 2.9 Profit loss on disposal of investment property 0.4 0.4 1.1 1.1 Profit on redemption of equity units in associate 1.0 1.0 Interest income expense from financial interest in property assets 2.5 2.5 4.7 4.7 Write back write down of inventories to net realisable value 2.9 2.9 18.4 18.4 Provision for impairment of loans receivable net of write backs 10.7 10.7 19.6 19.6 Operating profit before net valuation deficits on investment property 94.2 6.5 2.0 85.7 78.8 40.9 2.8 35.1 Net valuation deficits on investment property 0.8 0.8 25.6 25.6 Operating profit after net valuation deficits on investment property 94.2 7.3 2.0 84.9 78.8 66.5 2.8 9.5 Change in fair value of derivatives 39.6 39.6 38.7 38.7 Interest expense and similar charges 82.2 0.9 81.3 84.5 22.6 107.1 Interest income 5.0 5.0 5.2 5.2 Inducement costs and expenses on conversion of bond 31.1 31.1 Share of profit loss of associates after tax 5.6 5.6 0.2 6.6 6.4 Share of profit loss of joint ventures after tax 2.3 6.9 4.6 3.1 1.7 1.4 Loss before tax 14.7 34.4 1.1 20.8 3.4 110.1 56.5 170.0 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 79 4 Segmental information The group has adopted IFRS 8, Operating Segments IFRS 8 in these financial statements.
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified based upon the groups internal reporting to the chief operating decision maker CODM so that the CODM can make decisions about resources to be allocated to segments and to assess their performance.
The group has identified six segments and is treating all of these as reportable segments.
The segments are: UK residential: retirement solutions: property services: fund management and residential investments: UK and European development and German residential.
The group has a segment director responsible for the performance of each of these six segments and the group reports key financial information to the CODM on the basis of these six segments.
Each of these six segments operate within a different part of the overall residential market.
The title All other segments has been included in the tables on pages 80 to 85 to reconcile the segments to the figures reviewed by the CODM.
The measure of profit or loss used by the CODM is the trading profit or loss before valuation gains or deficits on investment property and excluding all revaluation and non-recurring items as set out in note 3.
The CODM reviews by segment two key balance sheet measures of net asset value.
These are gross net asset value NAV and triple net asset value NNNAV.
The adoption of IFRS 8 has resulted in several changes to the groups segmental information.
Major changes are to add property services as a reportable segment, combine UK and European development into a single segment, to change the basis of the segment operating profit loss and to show NAV and NNNAV by segment in addition to statutory net assets by segment.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 80 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Segmental Information continued Information relating to the groups operating segments is set out in the tables below.
Comparatives have been restated to conform with the requirements of IFRS 8.
Fund management UK and UK Retirement Property residential European German All other 2010 Income statement m residential solutions services investments development residential segments Total Group revenue Segment revenue external 155.2 25.6 0.6 4.9 19.7 38.5 244.5 Segment revenue internal 7.1 7.1 Net rental income 19.5 4.1 0.3 0.8 16.7 40.8 Profit on disposal of trading property 45.0 6.7 1.1 52.8 Administrative expenses 9.2 9.2 Other income and expenses 0.5 0.4 0.6 4.9 0.1 0.2 5.9 Profit on disposal of investment property 0.2 0.2 0.4 Profit on redemption of equity units in associate 1.0 1.0 Interest income from financial interest in property assets 2.5 2.5 Internal recharges 4.5 0.7 0.2 4.0 Operating profit before net valuation deficits on investment property 69.7 12.2 0.5 1.9 2.0 17.1 9.2 94.2 Net trading interest payable 3.2 2.4 0.1 13.9 62.6 77.2 Share of trading loss of joint ventures and associates after tax 1.7 0.6 2.3 Trading profit before tax, valuation and non-recurring items 14.7 Reversal of write down of inventories to net realisable value 2.3 0.6 2.9 Net valuation deficits on investment property 5.2 3.4 2.6 0.8 Change in fair value of derivatives 1.5 38.1 39.6 Provision for impairment of loans receivable net of write backs 4.9 5.8 10.7 Net gain on acquisition of subsidiary 2.8 2.8 Goodwill impairment 0.1 1.4 1.5 Share of valuation gains in joint ventures and associates after tax 12.5 12.5 Other net non-recurring items 1.1 1.1 Loss before tax 20.8 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 81 Fund management UK and UK Retirement Property residential European German All other 2009 Income statement m residential solutions services investments development residential segments Total Group revenue Segment revenue external 180.0 24.1 0.4 5.3 48.2 44.2 302.2 Segment revenue internal 8.3 8.3 Net rental income 20.8 4.3 0.2 1.1 14.2 40.2 Profit on disposal of trading property 35.5 4.4 5.4 45.3 Administrative expenses 8.2 8.2 Other income and expenses 0.9 0.1 0.5 5.3 0.5 7.3 Loss on disposal of investment property 0.3 0.3 1.1 1.1 Interest expense from financial interest in property assets 4.7 4.7 Internal recharges 3.4 0.9 1.4 3.9 Operating profit before net valuation deficits on investment property 60.9 2.9 1.7 1.4 6.5 13.6 8.2 78.8 Net trading interest payable 3.2 3.2 0.1 15.1 64.3 79.3 Share of trading loss of joint ventures and associates after tax 2.3 0.8 0.2 2.9 Trading loss before tax, valuation and non-recurring items 3.4 Write down of inventories to net realisable value 4.4 14.0 18.4 Net valuation deficits on investment property 5.2 9.5 10.9 25.6 Change in fair value of derivatives 0.5 38.2 38.7 Provision for impairment of loans receivable net of write backs 9.2 5.7 4.7 19.6 Goodwill impairment 2.2 0.7 2.9 Share of valuation deficits in joint ventures and associates after tax 4.9 4.9 Other net non-recurring items 0.1 0.2 0.3 1.5 54.4 56.5 Loss before tax 170.0 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 82 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Segmental Information continued The majority of the groups properties are held as trading stock and are therefore shown in the statutory balance sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
This does not reflect the market value of the assets and so our key balance sheet measures of net asset value include trading stock at market value.
The two principal net asset value measures reviewed by the CODM are gross net asset value NAV and triple net asset value NNNAV.
NAV is the statutory net assets plus the adjustment required to increase the value of trading stock from its statutory accounts value of the lower of cost and net realisable value, to its market value.
In addition, the statutory balance sheet amounts for both deferred tax on property revaluations and derivative financial instruments net of deferred tax, including those in joint ventures and associates, are added back to statutory net assets.
Finally, the market value of Grainger plc shares owned by the group are added back to statutory net assets.
NNNAV reverses some of the adjustments made between statutory net assets and NAV.
All of the adjustments for the value of derivative financial instruments net of deferred tax, including those in joint ventures and associates, are reversed.
The adjustment for the deferred tax on property revaluations is also reversed.
In addition, adjustments are made to net assets to reflect the fair value, net of deferred tax, of the groups fixed rate debt and to deduct from net assets the contingent tax calculated by applying the expected rate of tax to the adjustment to increase the value of trading stock from its statutory accounts value of the lower of cost and net realisable value, to its market value.
These measures are set out below by segment along with a reconciliation to the summarised statutory balance sheet.
2010 Segment net assets Fund management UK and UK Retirement Property residential European German All other m residential solutions services investments development residential segments Total Total segment net assets statutory 781.8 403.4 108.6 88.3 131.4 1,168.2 345.3 Total segment net assets NAV 1,115.5 459.6 114.5 73.5 152.5 1,083.8 831.8 Total segment net assets NNNAV 993.3 433.3 111.1 76.0 131.2 1,163.3 581.6 2010 Reconciliation of NAV measures Adjustments to Deferred Statutory market value, Gross NAV and Triple NAV balance deferred tax balance contingent balance m sheet and derivatives sheet tax Derivatives sheet Properties 1,795.0 331.5 2,126.5 2,126.5 Investments other assets 121.0 9.4 130.4 7.0 123.4 Goodwill 6.2 6.2 6.2 Cash 94.6 94.6 94.6 Total assets 2,016.8 340.9 2,357.7 7.0 2,350.7 Borrowings Derivatives 1,574.0 128.4 1,445.6 141.1 1,586.7 Other net liabilities 79.0 79.0 79.0 Provisions Deferred Tax 18.5 17.2 1.3 142.1 40.0 103.4 Total liabilities 1,671.5 145.6 1,525.9 142.1 101.1 1,769.1 Net assets 345.3 486.5 831.8 142.1 108.1 581.6 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 83 In order to provide further analysis the following table sets out NNNAV assets and liabilities by segment.
Segment assets and liabilities for NNNAV Fund 30 September 2010 UK management UK and 30 residential Retirement Property residential European German All other September m portfolio solutions services investments development residential segments 2010 NNNAV assets Investment property 110.0 84.0 440.7 634.7 Investment in associates 28.7 28.7 Investment in joint ventures 79.9 5.2 1.7 86.8 Financial interest in property assets 103.9 103.9 Goodwill 6.2 6.2 Inventories trading property 958.6 289.5 72.1 1.2 1,321.4 Trade and other receivables 3.3 1.9 6.0 2.5 3.5 17.2 Cash and cash equivalents 0.8 0.8 0.3 13.4 77.8 91.5 Property, plant and equipment 0.3 1.0 1.3 Assets held for sale 70.7 70.7 Value of own shares held 6.6 6.6 Total segment NNNAV assets 1,077.3 550.8 108.6 83.6 459.8 88.9 2,369.0 NNNAV liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 44.7 297.6 1,087.7 1,430.0 Trade and other payables 5.8 26.1 10.1 6.7 12.6 61.3 Retirement benefits 6.0 6.0 Current tax liabilities 27.8 27.8 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 0.8 0.8 Deferred and contingent tax liabilities 78.2 12.6 2.5 2.5 2.5 10.8 99.1 Derivative financial instruments 21.8 106.5 128.3 Liabilities held for sale 34.1 34.1 Total segment NNNAV liabilities 84.0 117.5 2.5 7.6 328.6 1,252.2 1,787.4 Net NNNAV assets 993.3 433.3 111.1 76.0 131.2 1,163.3 581.6 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 84 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Segmental Information continued 2009 Segment net assets Fund management UK and UK Retirement Property residential European German All other m residential solutions services investments development residential segments Total Total segment net assets statutory 788.4 376.6 101.3 87.6 138.2 1,363.6 128.5 Total segment net assets NAV 1,108.3 422.1 107.9 73.4 158.2 1,300.3 569.6 Total segment net assets NNNAV 987.6 403.3 101.3 77.3 138.6 1,359.7 348.4 2009 Reconciliation of NAV measures Adjustments to Deferred Statutory market value, Gross NAV and Triple NAV balance deferred tax balance contingent balance m sheet and derivatives sheet tax Derivatives sheet Properties 1,779.0 303.5 2,082.5 2,082.5 Investments other assets 115.8 17.2 133.0 8.5 124.5 Goodwill 5.9 5.9 5.9 Cash 28.3 28.3 28.3 Total assets 1,929.0 320.7 2,249.7 8.5 2,241.2 Borrowings Derivatives 1,676.2 99.3 1,576.9 108.1 1,685.0 Other net liabilities 103.2 103.2 103.2 Provisions deferred tax 21.1 21.1 137.2 32.6 104.6 Total liabilities 1,800.5 120.4 1,680.1 137.2 75.5 1,892.8 Net assets 128.5 441.1 569.6 137.2 84.0 348.4 In order to provide further analysis the following table sets out NNNAV assets and liabilities by segment.
Segment assets and liabilities for NNNAV Fund 30 September 2009 UK management UK and 30 residential Retirement Property residential European German All other September m portfolio solutions services investments development residential segments 2009 NNNAV Assets Investment property 95.4 88.6 470.3 654.3 Investment in associates 33.2 33.2 Investment in joint ventures 68.1 12.3 3.0 83.4 Financial interest in property assets 109.1 109.1 Goodwill 5.9 5.9 Inventories trading property 963.4 283.0 70.3 2.4 1,319.1 Trade and other receivables 3.0 1.3 2.2 4.5 9.0 20.0 Cash and cash equivalents 0.4 2.0 0.5 11.9 13.5 28.3 Property, plant and equipment 0.4 1.5 1.9 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 0.2 Value of own shares held 6.0 6.0 Total segment NNNAV assets 1,068.1 484.0 101.3 85.3 492.6 30.1 2,261.4 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 85 Fund management UK and 30 UK Retirement Property residential European German All other September m residential solutions services investments development residential segments 2009 NNNAV Liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 41.7 321.4 1,222.6 1,585.7 Trade and other payables 3.1 28.0 11.9 9.9 39.2 92.1 Retirement benefits 5.8 5.8 Current tax liabilities 0.4 24.0 24.4 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 0.9 0.9 Deferred tax liabilities 77.4 11.0 3.9 2.9 17.2 104.6 Derivative financial instruments 19.4 80.1 99.5 Total segment NNNAV liabilities 80.5 80.7 8.0 354.0 1,389.8 1,913.0 Net NNNAV assets 987.6 403.3 101.3 77.3 138.6 1,359.7 348.4 2010 2009 5 Net rental income m m Gross rental income 75.6 77.9 Service charge income on a principal basis 7.2 13.4 Property repair and maintenance costs 19.9 22.3 Service charge expense on a principal basis 10.0 15.3 Property operating expenses see note 8 12.1 15.2 40.8 38.5 2010 2009 6 Profit on disposal of trading property m m Proceeds from sale of trading property 151.0 198.4 Carrying value of trading property sold 90.8 144.4 Other sales costs see note 8 7.4 9.1 52.8 44.9 2010 2009 7 Profit loss on disposal of investment property m m Proceeds from sale of investment property 9.9 8.8 Carrying value of investment property sold 9.5 9.9 0.4 1.1 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 86 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 2010 2009 8 Administrative expenses m m Total group expenses 30.7 33.2 Many of the groups expenses relate directly to either property management activities or to staff involved directly with the sale and acquisition of property.
Accordingly, total group expenses shown above have been allocated as follows: 2010 2009 m m Property operating expenses see note 5 12.1 15.2 Costs directly attributable to the disposal of trading property see note 6 7.4 9.1 Administrative expenses 11.2 8.9 30.7 33.2 2010 2009 9 Other income and expenses m m Property and asset management fee income 5.5 5.7 Crop store and agricultural income 0.3 0.5 Other sundry income 0.8 1.1 Costs on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 0.7 5.9 7.3 2010 2009 10 Employees m m Wages and salaries 11.7 13.1 Termination benefits 2.1 1.5 Social security costs 1.2 1.3 Other pension costs defined contribution scheme see note 27 0.7 0.8 Share-based payments see note 31 1.3 0.8 17.0 17.5 Interest on net pension scheme liabilities amounted to 0.3m in 2010 2009: 0.2m and is included within interest expense and similar charges see note 12.
The average monthly number of group employees during the year including executive directors was: 2010 2009 Number Number UK tenanted residential 238 251 UK development 4 10 European tenanted residential 12 13 254 274 Details of directors remuneration, including pension costs, share options and interests in the LTIS are provided in the audited section of the remuneration committee report on pages 50 to 53 which form part of these financial statements.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 87 2010 2009 Key management compensation m m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 3.0 3.0 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2 Share-based payments 0.4 0.7 3.6 3.9 Key management figures shown above include the executive and the non-executive directors.
2010 2009 11 Loss before tax m m Loss before tax is stated after charging crediting : Depreciation on fixtures, fittings and equipment see note 17 0.7 0.8 Impairment of goodwill see note 21 1.5 2.9 Net gain on acquisition of subsidiary see note 41 2.8 Bad debt expense 1.4 1.1 Foreign exchange losses 1.0 0.4 Operating lease payments 1.7 1.7 Auditors remuneration audit 0.1 0.1 Auditors remuneration non audit 0.8 0.8 The remuneration paid to  LLP, the groups principal auditors, is disclosed below: 2010 2009 Auditors remuneration 000 000 Audit fees Fees payable to the companys auditors for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 146 148 Other fees The audit of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 131 103 Other service pursuant to legislation: Tax services 205 106 Other services 382 531 Total fees 864 888 During the year, 205,000 was paid by the group to  LLP for taxation services.
The audit committee give careful consideration before appointing the auditors to provide taxation advice and regularly use other providers to ensure that independence and full value for money are achieved.
A further 382,000 was paid for other services, the main element of which was 366,000 relating to work performed in connection with the rights issue.
These fees were one-off in nature and are not expected to reoccur.
Operating lease payments represent the lease payments made in the year relating to renting of office space used by the group, car leases under contract hire arrangements and operating lease payments relating to office equipment such as photocopiers.
Leases relating to office space used by the group have initial terms of varying lengths, between one to 13 years.
Rent reviews generally take place every five years.
Contract hire car leases generally have a three-year term.
There are no other significant operating lease arrangements requiring disclosure under IAS 17.
The groups operating lease commitments are shown in note 37.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 88 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 2010 2009 12 Interest m m Interest expense and similar charges Bank loans and mortgages 75.0 78.2 Convertible bond 1.7 2.1 Loan notes 0.4 Other interest payable 0.1 5.2 Foreign exchange losses on financing activities 1.0 0.4 Loan issue costs amortisation and loss on extinguishment 3.2 20.6 Interest on net pension scheme liabilities see note 27 0.3 0.2 81.3 107.1 Interest income Interest receivable from associates and joint ventures see note 35 2.4 3.3 Other interest receivable 2.6 1.9 5.0 5.2 Net finance costs 76.3 101.9 Loan issue costs amortisation and loss on extinguishment of 20.6m in 2009 includes 17.5m of loan costs and fees expensed as a result of the debt refinancing concluded immediately prior to the 30 September 2009 year end through which certain loans were accounted for as an extinguishment under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
2010 2009 13 Taxation m m Current tax Corporation tax on profits 4.1 0.9 Adjustments relating to prior years 4.2 11.7 0.1 10.8 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of timing differences 12.3 38.8 Adjustments relating to prior years 2.4 1.6 9.9 37.2 Income tax credit for the year 10.0 48.0 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 89 Movements in taxation during the year are set out below: Refund Movements Movements Opening received Acquired recognised Exchange recognised Closing balance in the year Transfers in the year in income adjustments in equity balance 2010 Movement in taxation m m m m m m m Current tax 24.4 3.6 0.1 0.1 0.2 27.8 Deferred tax Trading property uplift to fair value on acquisition 42.0 0.3 2.4 3.2 41.5 Investment property revaluation 9.4 0.2 9.2 Accelerated capital allowances 0.4 0.4 Short-term timing differences 14.8 0.3 6.5 21.6 Actuarial deficit on BPT Limited pension scheme 0.4 0.1 0.5 Equity component of available-for-sale financial asset 0.7 0.8 1.5 Fair value movement in cash flow hedges and exchange adjustments 16.2 0.1 16.3 21.1 2.4 9.9 0.1 0.7 14.2 Total tax 2010 movement 45.5 3.6 2.5 10.0 0.3 0.7 42.0 Payments Movements Movements Opening made in Acquired recognised Exchange recognised Closing balance the year in the year in income adjustments in equity balance 2009 Movement in taxation m m m m m m m Current tax 51.4 16.2 10.8 24.4 Deferred tax Trading property uplift to fair value on acquisition 60.3 18.3 42.0 Investment property revaluation 20.1 11.0 0.3 9.4 Accelerated capital allowances 2.2 1.8 0.4 Short-term timing differences 8.7 6.1 14.8 Actuarial gain deficit on BPT Limited pension scheme 0.7 1.1 0.4 Equity component of available-for-sale financial asset 0.7 0.7 Fair value movement in cash flow hedges and exchange adjustments 3.8 20.0 16.2 78.4 37.2 0.3 20.4 21.1 Total tax 2009 movement 129.8 16.2 48.0 0.3 20.4 45.5 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 90 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Taxation continued The tax credit for the year comprises: 2010 2009 m m UK taxation 8.6 46.1 Overseas taxation 1.4 1.9 10.0 48.0 The tax credit for the year is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% 2009: 28%.
The differences are explained below: 2010 2009 m m Loss before tax 20.8 170.0 Loss before tax at a rate of 28% 2009: 28% 5.8 47.6 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.0 2.5 Goodwill credit impairment not taxable allowable 0.4 0.8 Impact of tax rate change 0.9 Utilisation of current and prior period losses 11.9 Other losses and non-taxable items 3.0 6.6 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 1.9 1.6 Total income tax credit in the income statement see above 10.0 48.0 As shown in note 28, deferred tax has been taken directly to equity in relation to the actuarial loss on the BPT Limited pension scheme, the equity component of available-for-sale financial assets and the fair value movement in cash flow hedges and exchange adjustments.
Factors that may affect future tax charges A number of changes to the UK corporation tax system were announced in the June 2010 Budget Statement.
2 Act 2010 introduced legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax from 28% to 27% effective from 1 April 2011.
Based on our assessment of the reversal of timing differences we have reduced our deferred tax liability by 0.9m as a result of this change.
Further reductions to the main rate of corporation tax proposed that would reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 24% by 1 April 2014.
These further changes are not substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are therefore not included in these financial statements.
Although a number of matters have been agreed during the year with the relevant tax authorities, we are currently in discussions with HM Revenue & Customs in connection with a number of outstanding tax matters.
The Group has continued with its policy of prudent tax provisioning and no credit has been taken as at 30 September 2010 for any potential benefits that may arise from settlement of these outstanding matters.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 91 14 Dividends Under IAS 10, final dividends are excluded from the balance sheet either until they are approved by the company in general meeting or until they have been appropriately authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the group.
Dividends paid in the year are shown below: 2010 2009 m m Ordinary dividends on equity shares: Final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2008 1.29p per share 5.3 Final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2009 1.29p per share 5.3 Interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2010 0.5p per share 2.1 7.4 5.3 Dividend per share figures relating to the prior period have been restated to reflect the rights issue in December 2009.
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 30 September 2010 of 1.20p per share amounting to 4.9m will be proposed at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
If approved, this dividend will be paid on 11 February 2011 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 10 December 2010.
The 2010 interim dividend of 0.50p per share was paid in July 2010.
This gives a total dividend for 2010 of 1.70p per share 2009: 1.29p per share.
15 Loss per share Basic Basic loss earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to equity holders of the company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the group and held both in trust and as treasury shares to meet its obligations under the long-term incentive scheme LTIS and deferred bonus plan DBP.
Diluted Diluted loss earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of shares in issue by the dilutive effect of ordinary shares that the company may potentially issue relating to its convertible bond and its share option schemes and contingent share awards under the LTIS and DBP, based upon the number of shares that would be issued if 30 September 2010 was the end of the contingency period.
The loss profit for the year is adjusted to add back the after tax interest cost on the debt component of the convertible bond.
Where the effect of the above adjustments is antidilutive, as is the case for both years being reported, they are excluded from the calculation of diluted loss earnings per share.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 92 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Loss per share continued 30 September 2010 30 September 2009 Weighted Weighted Loss average Loss average for the number Loss for the number Loss year of shares per share year of shares per share m thousands pence m thousands pence Basic loss per share Loss attributable to equity holders 2009 as originally stated 10.8 375,687 2.9 122.0 135,816 89.8 Loss attributable to equity holders in 2009 as restated 122.0 240,340 50.8 Effect of potentially dilutive securities Share options and contingent shares Diluted loss per share Loss attributable to equity holders 2009 as originally stated 10.8 375,687 2.9 122.0 135,816 89.8 Loss attributable to equity holders in 2009 as restated 122.0 240,340 50.8 The 2009 loss per share has been restated to reflect the impact of the rights issue in December 2009.
In accordance with IAS 33 the rights issue comprised a bonus issue of shares for no consideration and an issue of shares at the full theoretical ex-rights price.
The bonus issue represented 104,523,114 shares and has been added to the weighted average number of shares with effect from the beginning of the earliest period being reported, 1 October 2008.
The remaining 173,030,292 shares have been time apportioned from their date of issue, 16 December 2009, in calculating the weighted average number of shares.
2010 2009 16 Investment property m m Opening balance 654.3 619.3 Additions: Acquisitions 13.0 1.1 Subsequent expenditure 2.1 3.7 Disposals 9.5 9.9 Net valuation deficits 0.8 25.6 Exchange adjustments 24.4 65.7 Closing balance 634.7 654.3 The group has valued all of its investment property as at 30 September 2010 at fair value.
Information relating to the basis of valuation of investment property, the use of external independent valuers, and the judgements and assumptions adopted by management is set out in note 2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions.
A revaluation deficit of 0.8m has arisen on valuation of investment property to fair value as at 30 September 2010 2009: deficit of 25.6m and this has been taken to the income statement.
The historical cost of the groups investment property as at 30 September 2010 is 638.0m 2009: 659.4m.
Rental income from investment property during the year was 41.7m 2009: 41.3m.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 93 Direct property repair and maintenance costs arising from investment property that generated rental income during the year was 10.8m 2009: 12.2m.
Direct operating expenses arising from investment property that did not generate rental income during the year amounted to nil 2009: 0.1m.
The reduction in value of 24.4m 2009: increase of 65.7m relates to an exchange movement on the groups German residential property.
This reflects the movement in the sterling euro exchange rate at 30 September 2010 compared to the rate at 30 September 2009.
Fixtures fittings and equipment 17 Property, plant and equipment m Cost At 1 October 2009 5.1 Additions 0.3 Disposals 0.4 At 30 September 2010 5.0 Accumulated Depreciation At 1 October 2009 3.2 Charge for the year 0.7 Disposals 0.2 At 30 September 2010 3.7 Net book value At 30 September 2010 1.3 At 30 September 2009 1.9 Fixtures fittings and equipment m Cost At 1 October 2008 4.7 Additions 0.4 At 30 September 2009 5.1 Accumulated Depreciation At 1 October 2008 2.4 Charge for the year 0.8 At 30 September 2009 3.2 Net book value At 30 September 2009 1.9 At 30 September 2008 2.3 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 94 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 2010 2009 18 Investment in associates m m Opening balance 33.2 51.6 Share of profit loss 5.6 6.4 Distributions received 0.4 Profit on redemption of equity units 1.0 Proceeds on redemption of equity units 9.8 7.6 Share of change in fair value of cash flow hedges taken through equity 1.3 4.0 Closing balance 28.7 33.2 Disclosed as: Non-current assets 28.6 24.5 Current assets 0.1 8.7 Closing balance 28.7 33.2 In January 2009 the investors in Schroders ResPUT agreed to a controlled liquidation of the fund and the group has received a number of redemption payments as assets have been realised.
The liquidation process was virtually completed at 30 September 2010 and the remaining investment of 0.1m 2009: 8.7m is therefore held as a current asset.
As at 30 September 2010, the groups interest in associates was as follows: % of ordinary share Country of capital units held incorporation G:res1 Limited 21.6 Jersey Schroders Residential Property Unit Trust ResPUT 21.8 Jersey The accounting period end of G:res1 Limited is 31 December 2010.
Their results for the 12 months to 30 September 2010 and their financial position as at that date have been equity accounted in these accounts.
The accounting period end of Schroders ResPUT is 31 March 2011.
In relation to the groups investment in associates, the groups share of the aggregated assets, liabilities, revenues and profit or loss are shown below: 2010 G:res1 Limited ResPUT Total m m m Non-current assets 79.0 79.0 Current assets 5.7 0.1 5.8 Non-current liabilities 54.4 54.4 Current liabilities 1.7 1.7 Net assets 28.6 0.1 28.7 Revenues 4.4 4.4 Profit including share of gain on revaluation of investment property 5.5 0.1 5.6 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 95 2009 G:res1 Limited ResPUT Total m m m Non-current assets 74.2 7.8 82.0 Current assets 4.9 0.9 5.8 Non-current liabilities 53.0 53.0 Current liabilities 1.6 1.6 Net assets 24.5 8.7 33.2 Revenues 4.4 0.6 5.0 Loss including share of deficit on revaluation of investment property 6.0 0.4 6.4 Net assets Loans Goodwill Total 19 Investment in joint ventures m m m m At 1 October 2008 2.2 88.6 90.8 Loans advanced 7.5 7.5 Movement in provisions against loans 14.8 14.8 Share of loss 1.4 1.4 Net assets acquired through purchase of joint venture 0.1 0.1 Goodwill arising on investment in Gebau Vermogen GmbH 2.7 2.7 Exchange adjustment 0.4 0.4 Share of change in fair value of cash flow hedges taken through equity 4.6 4.6 At 30 September 2009 3.3 81.3 2.7 80.7 Loans advanced 9.3 9.3 Movement in provisions against loans 4.9 4.9 Share of profit 4.6 4.6 Goodwill impairment charge on investment in Gebau Vermogen GmbH see note 21 1.4 1.4 Exchange adjustment 0.1 0.1 Share of change in fair value of cash flow hedges taken through equity 2.8 2.8 At 30 September 2010 4.1 85.6 1.3 91.0 The movement in provisions against loans in 2010 of 4.9m represents a release of 1.5m provision against the groups mezzanine loan to Grainger GenInvest No.
2 2006 LLP, a 1.5m provision against the groups investment in its Czech Republic joint ventures and a 4.9m provision against the groups investment in its Curzon Park joint venture.
These provisions are included within the provision for impairment on loans receivable net of write backs on the face of the consolidated income statement.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 96 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Investment in joint ventures continued As we announced at the half year, a recent White Paper on the proposed High Speed Rail Network from London to Birmingham indicates that the potential route will cover at least part of our development site held in joint venture with Development Securities plc at Curzon Park in Birmingham.
We are assessing the long-term impact with our advisers and aim to collaborate with other affected owners in the area.
A provision of 4.9m has been made in our year-end accounts against the carrying value of our joint venture investment.
In view of the uncertainty relating to the future of the Curzon Park site, the group is seeking advice in order to protect its position.
Should the value of the site, together with any compensation received, be insufficient to repay the bank loan in the joint venture entity, the group may incur further charges in respect of its obligations to the joint venture and the bank.
At 30 September 2010, the groups interest in joint ventures was as follows: % of ordinary share Country of capital held incorporation Grainger Geninvest LLP 50 United Kingdom Grainger Geninvest No.
2 2006 LLP 50 United Kingdom Curzon Park Limited 50 United Kingdom King Street Developments Hammersmith Limited 50 United Kingdom CCZ a. s. 50 Czech Republic CCY a. s. 50 Czech Republic Prazsky Project a. s. 50 Czech Republic Gebau Vermogen GmbH 50 Germany The accounting period end of Curzon Park Limited is 31 December 2010.
Their results for 12 months to 30 September 2010 and their financial position as at that date have been equity accounted in these accounts.
The accounting period end of King Street Developments Hammersmith is 31 March 2011.
In relation to the groups investment in joint ventures, the groups share of the aggregated assets, liabilities, revenues and profit or loss are shown below: GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 97 2010 Summarised income statement 2010 King Street Grainger Grainger Czech Developments Gebau GenInvest GenInvest No.
2 Republic Curzon Park Hammersmith Vermogen LLP 2006 LLP combined Limited Limited GmbH Total m m m m m m m Net rental income and other income 0.9 2.8 0.2 3.9 Profit on disposal of investment property 0.1 0.4 0.5 Operating profit before valuation deficits 1.0 3.2 0.2 4.4 Net valuation gains on investment property 4.7 2.2 6.9 Operating profit 5.7 5.4 0.2 11.3 Interest payable 1.9 4.0 0.2 0.4 0.2 6.7 Profit loss before tax 3.8 1.4 0.2 0.4 4.6 Taxation Profit loss after tax 3.8 1.4 0.2 0.4 4.6 2010 Summarised balance sheet 2010 King Street Grainger Grainger Czech Developments Gebau GenInvest GenInvest No.
2 Republic Curzon Park Hammersmith Vermogen LLP 2006 LLP combined Limited Limited GmbH Total m m m m m m m Investment property 41.6 101.1 142.7 Current assets 0.6 3.6 14.9 18.6 1.9 1.2 40.8 Total assets 42.2 104.7 14.9 18.6 1.9 1.2 183.5 Non-current liabilities 6.4 4.0 5.6 20.7 36.7 Current liabilities 28.9 104.1 6.8 0.1 1.9 0.9 142.7 Net assets liabilities 6.9 3.4 2.5 2.2 0.3 4.1 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 98 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Investment in joint ventures continued 2009 Summarised income statement 2009 King Street Grainger Grainger Czech Developments Gebau GenInvest GenInvest No.
2 Republic Curzon Park Hammersmith Vermogen LLP 2006 LLP combined Limited Limited GmbH Total m m m m m m m Net rental income and other income 0.9 2.6 0.4 3.9 Profit on disposal of investment property Operating profit before valuation gains 0.9 2.6 0.4 3.9 Net valuation gains on investment property 1.7 1.7 Operating profit 2.6 2.6 0.4 5.6 Interest payable 1.9 4.1 0.2 0.6 0.2 7.0 Profit loss before tax 0.7 1.5 0.2 0.6 0.2 1.4 Taxation Profit loss after tax 0.7 1.5 0.2 0.6 0.2 1.4 2009 Summarised balance sheet 2009 King Street Grainger Grainger Czech Developments Gebau GenInvest GenInvest No.
2 Republic Curzon Park Hammersmith Vermogen LLP 2006 LLP combined Limited Limited GmbH Total m m m m m m m Investment property 39.1 100.8 139.9 Current assets 0.1 5.0 14.0 18.5 0.5 38.1 Total assets 39.2 105.8 14.0 18.5 0.5 178.0 Non-current liabilities 33.7 108.3 5.2 12.7 0.1 160.0 Current liabilities 3.1 4.6 5.9 7.6 0.1 21.3 Net assets liabilities 2.4 7.1 2.9 1.8 0.3 3.3 The results and financial position of the three Czech Republic companies have been aggregated in the above tables as individually they are not material and the development being undertaken in Prague is being managed as a single development with each company owning part of the combined site.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 99 2010 2009 20 Financial interest in property assets m m Opening balance 109.1 121.2 Cash received from the instrument 10.8 10.1 Amounts taken to income statement 2.5 4.7 Amounts taken to equity before tax 3.1 2.7 Closing balance 103.9 109.1 Financial interest in property assets relates to the CHARM portfolio, which is a financial interest in equity mortgages held by the Church of England Pensions Board as mortgagee.
It is accounted for under IAS 39 in accordance with the designation available-for-sale financial assets and is valued at fair value.
For interests held at 30 September 2010 we have revised our assessment of future cash flows and of the effective interest rate to discount those cash flows.
This has resulted in an increase to the fair value of 3.1m before tax which has been taken through equity reserves.
Credit risk arises from the credit exposure relating to cash receipts from the financial instrument.
All of the cash receipts are payable by the Church Commissioners, a counterparty considered to be low risk as they have no history of past due or impaired amounts and there are no past due amounts outstanding at the year end.
2010 2009 21 Goodwill m m Opening balance 5.9 8.0 Arising on prior year acquisition 0.8 Arising on current year acquisition 0.4 Impairment charge taken to income statement 0.1 2.9 Closing balance 6.2 5.9 Goodwill arising in the current year of 0.4m relates to the groups acquisition of PHA Limited on 31 March 2010 see note 40.
The total goodwill impairment charge in the income statement comprises: 2010 2009 m m Impairment charge as shown above 0.1 2.9 Impairment charge relating to Gebau Vermogen GmbH see note 19 1.4 1.5 2.9 Further information on how goodwill arises is provided in note 2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions.
2010 2009 22 Inventories trading properties m m Residential trading property 908.5 928.4 Development trading property 81.4 87.2 989.9 1,015.6 The market value of inventories as at 30 September 2010 was 1,321.4m 2009: 1,319.2m.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 100 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Inventories trading properties continued Provisions of 2.9m against the net realisable value of residential trading property have been credited back to the consolidated income statement in the year 2009: charge to the income statement of 18.4m.
Further details are given in note 2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement is shown in note 6 Profit on disposal of trading property and amounted to 90.8m 2009: 144.4m.
2010 2009 23 Trade and other receivables m m Trade receivables 8.8 10.1 Deduct: Provision for impairment of trade receivables 2.0 2.2 Trade receivables net 6.8 7.9 Other receivables 5.4 9.9 Prepayments 5.0 2.2 17.2 20.0 The fair values of trade and other receivables are considered to be equal to their carrying amounts.
Other receivables includes a loan of 1.6m net of an impairment provision of 10.6m 2009: 4.8m made to the Mornington Capital Special Situations Co-investment Fund 1 Limited Partnership Mornington.
The group is in regular contact with the fund managers at Mornington and is discussing how to realise value from the investment made.
However, in assessing impairment a prudent view has been taken on assessment of the discounted future cash flows likely to be realised.
The loan has been used by the fund to invest in real estate joint venture partnerships.
The loan bears interest at between 5% and 8% per annum above EURIBOR and is repayable within one year.
The loan is secured by fixed and floating charges over the assets of the fund.
Other receivables also include a loan of 2.4m made to Clarins Limited Clarins to enable that company to develop a property in the City of Westminster.
The loan is interest free and subordinated to the senior debt provider funding the development.
Grainger is entitled to a priority profit share of up to 4.25m on sale of the developed property.
The loan is secured by a charge on the property being developed.
As at 30 September 2010, tenant arrears of 2.0m within trade receivables were impaired and fully provided for 2009: 2.2m.
The individually impaired receivables are based on a review of outstanding tenant arrears and an assessment of collectability.
The ageing of these receivables is: 2010 2009 m m Up to two months 0.1 0.1 Three months or more 1.9 2.1 2.0 2.2 Rental debtors are due on demand and hence all balances outstanding at the year end are past due.
The balances within trade receivables which are past due but are not considered to be impaired, because either the debt has been collected since the balance sheet date or there is a history of regular payment, are as follows: GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 101 2010 2009 m m Up to two months 2.5 1.9 The carrying amounts of the groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2010 2009 m m Pounds Sterling 13.1 7.3 Czech Koruna 0.9 Euros 4.1 11.8 17.2 20.0 Movements on the group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2010 2009 m m Opening balance 2.2 1.2 Provision for receivables impairment during the year 2.2 1.5 Receivables written off during the period as not recoverable 1.6 0.1 Unused amounts reversed 0.8 0.4 Closing balance 2.0 2.2 The charge credit relating to the creation and release of provisions for impaired receivables have been included in property repair and maintenance costs in the consolidated income statement see note 5.
Amounts provided for are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering any further cash.
The loan due from Mornington included within other receivables has been impaired and the provision made in the year of 5.8m is included within the provision for impairment of loans receivable net of write backs on the face of the consolidated income statement.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivables mentioned above.
Tenant deposits of 3.7m 2009: 3.6m are held which provide some security against rental arrears and property dilapidations caused by the tenant.
In addition the loans to Mornington and Clarins are secured as described above.
The group does not hold any other collateral as security.
24 Financial risk management and derivative financial instruments Financial risk management The groups objectives for managing financial risk are to minimise the risk of adverse effects on performance and to ensure the ability of the group to continue as a going concern while securing access to cost effective finance and maintaining flexibility to respond quickly to opportunities which arise.
The groups policies on financial risk management are approved by the board of directors and implemented by group treasury.
Written policies and procedures cover interest rate risk, credit risk, the use of derivative and non-derivative financial instruments and investment of excess liquidity.
Compliance is monitored by internal auditors.
Group treasury reports to the risk committee.
The group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to financial risk but does not take positions for speculative purposes.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 102 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Financial risk management and derivative financial instruments continued The sources of financial risk and the policies and activities used to mitigate each are discussed below and include credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk which includes interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk, house price risk in relation to the CHARM portfolio, our financial interest in property assets, and capital risk.
Categories of financial instruments A summary of the classifications of the financial assets and liabilities held by the group is set out in the following table: 2010 Loans and Assets at receivables fair value Derivatives Total cash and cash through profit used for Availablebook Fair Fair value equivalents and loss hedging for-sale value value adjustment m m m m m m m Financial interest in property assets 103.9 103.9 103.9 Trade and other receivables 12.2 12.2 12.2 Derivative financial instruments Cash and cash equivalents 91.5 91.5 91.5 Total financial assets 103.7 103.9 207.6 207.6 Liabilities at Other financial fair value Derivatives liabilities at Total through profit used for amortised book Fair Fair value and loss hedging cost value value adjustment m m m m m m Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,361.7 1,361.7 1,374.4 12.7 Trade and other payables 4.0 4.0 4.0 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 0.8 0.8 0.8 Current liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 55.6 55.6 55.6 Trade and other payables 15.8 15.8 15.8 Derivative financial instruments 72.7 55.6 128.3 128.3 Total financial liabilities 72.7 55.6 1,437.9 1,566.2 1,578.9 12.7 Total net financial assets liabilities 103.7 72.7 55.6 1,334.0 1,358.6 1,371.3 12.7 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 103 2009 Loans and Assets at receivables fair value Derivatives Total cash and cash through profit used for Availablebook Fair Fair value equivalents and loss hedging for-sale value value adjustment m m m m m m m Financial interest in property assets 109.1 109.1 109.1 Trade and other receivables 17.8 17.8 17.8 Derivative financial instruments 0.2 0.2 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents 28.3 28.3 28.3 Total financial assets 46.1 0.2 109.1 155.4 155.4 Liabilities at Other financial fair value Derivatives liabilities at Total through profit used for amortised book Fair Fair value and loss hedging cost value value adjustment m m m m m m Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,557.0 1,557.0 1,565.8 8.8 Trade and other payables 4.0 4.0 4.0 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 0.9 0.9 0.9 Current liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19.9 19.9 19.9 Trade and other payables 11.2 11.2 11.2 Derivative financial instruments 39.5 60.0 99.5 99.5 Total financial liabilities 39.5 60.0 1,593.0 1,692.5 1,701.3 8.8 Total net financial assets liabilities 46.1 39.3 60.0 1,483.9 1,537.1 1,545.9 8.8 The fair value adjustment relates to the groups fixed rate loans and the liability component of the convertible bond, all of which are stated at amortised cost in the consolidated statement of financial position.
There is no requirement under IAS 39 to revalue these loans to fair value in the statutory balance sheet.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss due to a counterpartys failure to honour its obligations.
The groups principal financial assets include its financial interest in property assets, bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables and financial derivatives.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements represents the groups maximum exposure to credit risk without taking account of the value of any collateral obtained.
The groups financial interest in property assets relates to a financial interest in equity mortgages held by the Church of England Pensions Board as mortgagee, a counterparty considered to be low risk as they have no history of past due or impaired amounts and there are no past due amounts outstanding at the year end.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 104 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Financial risk management and derivative financial instruments continued The groups principal credit risk relates to trade receivables.
Where it is identified that recovery is doubtful a provision for impairment is made.
For all Assured Shorthold Tenancies credit checks are performed prior to acceptance of the tenant.
Regulated tenants are incentivised through the benefit of their tenancy agreement to avoid default on their rent.
Lifetime tenancies are generally at low or zero rent and hence suffer minimal credit risk.
Rent deposits and personal guarantees are held in respect of some leases.
Taking these factors into account the risk to the group of individual tenant default and the credit risk of trade receivables is considered low, as is borne out by the low level of trade receivables written off both in this year and in prior years.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is managed through the groups policies of monitoring counterparty exposure, concentration of credit risk through the use of multiple counterparties and the use of counterparties of good financial standing.
Cash and short-term deposits at 30 September 2010 amounted to 91.5 2009: 28.3m.
Deposits were placed with financial institutions with Aor better credit ratings.
At 30 September 2010, the fair value of all interest rate derivatives which had a positive value was nil 2009: 0.2m.
For 2009 balances, all the counterparties had investment grade credit ratings.
At 30 September 2010, the largest combined credit exposure to a single counterparty arising from money market deposits and interest rate swaps was 291.7m 2009: 305.4m which represents 14.3% 2009: 15.7% of total assets.
At 30 September 2010, the loan advanced to Mornington Capital Special Situations Co-investment Fund 1 Limited Partnership was impaired on the basis of discounted future cash flows see note 23.
Liquidity risk The group ensures that it maintains continuity and flexibility through a spread of maturities.
Although the groups core funding is supported by covenants requiring certain levels of loan to value with respect to the entities in the group of obligors and to maintaining a certain level of interest cover at the group level the loan is not secured directly against any property allowing operational flexibility.
The group has comfortably complied with its covenants during 2010 and as at 30 September 2010 see note 2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions.
The group ensures that it maintains sufficient cash for operational requirements at all times.
The group uses short-term money market deposits to manage its liquidity.
The group also ensures that it has sufficient undrawn committed borrowing facilities from a diverse range of banks to allow for operational flexibility and to meet committed expenditure on its developments.
The UK residential business in particular is very cash generative from its gross rents and sales of trading properties.
In adverse trading conditions, investment sales can be increased and new acquisitions can be stopped.
Consequently, the group is able to reduce gearing levels and improve liquidity quickly.
The following table analyses the groups financial liabilities and net-settled derivative financial liabilities at the balance sheet date into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
As the amounts included in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these amounts will not equal the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet for borrowings, derivative financial instruments, trade and other payables and provisions for liabilities and charges.
A reconciliation to the balance sheet amounts is given on page 105.
Trade and other payables due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 105 The cash flows are calculated using yield curves for floating rate interest-bearing liabilities.
Foreign currency related cash flows are calculated by means of the forward rates relevant to each maturity date.
Between Between Less than 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over 5 1 year years years Years Total m m m m m At 30 September 2010 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 92.0 90.1 1,185.4 198.2 1,565.7 Cash flow hedges 32.9 31.6 49.3 19.7 133.5 Trade and other payables 34.6 4.0 38.6 Provision for liabilities and charges 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.6 1.2 Between Between Less than 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over 5 1 year years years Years Total m m m m m At 30 September 2009 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 62.2 171.6 1,394.1 214.1 1,842.0 Cash flow hedges 45.5 28.5 24.3 9.6 107.9 Trade and other payables 62.0 4.0 66.0 Provision for liabilities and charges 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.7 1.3 Reconciliation of maturity analysis Between Between Less than 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over 5 1 year years years Years Total m m m m m At 30 September 2010 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings see note 25 55.6 51.4 1,144.9 165.4 1,417.3 Foreign exchange impact of forward rates 0.1 3.6 4.5 8.2 Interest 33.4 35.8 41.7 36.0 146.9 Unamortised borrowing costs 3.0 3.0 2.4 1.3 9.7 Financial liability cash flows shown above 92.0 90.1 1,185.4 198.2 1,565.7 Between Between Less than 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over 5 1 year years years Years Total m m m m m At 30 September 2009 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings see note 25 19.9 109.6 1,275.6 171.8 1,576.9 Foreign exchange impact of forward rates 0.3 0.1 13.7 6.6 20.7 Interest 39.4 58.9 127.1 47.5 272.9 Unamortised borrowing costs 3.2 3.2 5.1 1.4 12.9 Financial liability cash flows shown above 62.2 171.6 1,394.1 214.1 1,842.0 The groups undrawn committed borrowing facilities are monitored against projected cash flows.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 106 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Financial risk management and derivative financial instruments continued Maturity of committed undrawn borrowing facilities 2010 2009 m m Expiring: Within one year 5.0 5.0 Between one and two years Between two and five years 188.1 159.5 Total 193.1 164.5 The above facilities are those freely available to be drawn for group purposes.
Market risk The group is exposed to market risk through interest rates, foreign exchange fluctuations, the availability of credit and house price movements relating to the CHARM portfolio.
The approach the group takes to each of these risks is set out below.
The group is not exposed to equity price risk or to commodity price risk.
Fair values IFRS 7 sets out a three-tier hierarchy for financial assets and liabilities valued at fair value.
These are as follows: Level 1 quoted prices in active markets for identified assets or liabilities: Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included in level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly as prices or indirectly as derived from prices: and Level 3 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
The following table presents the groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value as at 30 September 2010.
The fair value of swaps is derived from the present value of future cash flows discounted at rates obtained by means of the current yield curve appropriate for those instruments.
As all significant inputs required to value the swaps are observable, they all fall within level 2.
2010 2009 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges in hedge accounting relationships 55.6 60.0 Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges not in hedge accounting relationships 72.7 0.2 39.5 128.3 0.2 99.5 Interest rate swaps are all classified as either current assets or current liabilities.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts as at 30 September 2010 was 932.2m 2009: 1,117.3m As at 30 September 2010 the fixed interest rates vary from 3.51% to 5.26% 2009: 3.51% to 5.38%.
The fair value movement relating to cash flow hedges not in hedge accounting relationships amounted to a charge of 39.6m 2009: charge of 38.7m in the consolidated income statement.
All of the financial derivatives included in the above table were valued by external consultants, J. C. Rathbone Associated Ltd, using a discounted cash flow model and quoted market information and were checked internally using a bespoke software package.
In accordance with IAS 39, the group has reviewed its interest rate hedges.
In the absence of hedge accounting, movements in fair value would have been taken directly to the income statement.
However, where cash flow hedges have been viewed as being effective any gains or losses have been taken to equity through the cash flow hedge reserve.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 107 A valuation was carried out at 30 September 2010 by external consultants, J. C. Rathbone Associated Ltd, to calculate the market value of the groups fixed rate debt on a replacement basis, taking into account the difference between the fixed interest rates for the groups borrowings and the market value and prevailing interest rate of appropriate debt instruments as a fair value adjustment.
The fair values compared to the carrying amounts of the groups fixed rate financial liabilities are analysed below.
Book value at Fair value at 30 September 30 September 2010 2010 Fixed rate loan facilities 83.8 96.5 Book value at Fair value at 30 September 30 September 2009 2009 Fixed rate loan facilities 86.2 95.0 Interest rate risk The groups interest rate risk arises from the risk of fluctuations in interest charges on floating rate borrowings.
The group mitigates this risk through the use of variable to fixed interest rate swaps, caps and collars.
This subjects the group to fair value risk as the value of the financial derivatives fluctuates in line with variations in interest rates.
However, the group seeks to cash flow hedge account where applicable.
The group is, however, driven by commercial considerations when hedging its interest rate risk and is not driven by the strict requirements of the hedge accounting rules under IAS 39 if this is to the detriment of achieving the best commercial arrangement.
Hedging activities are carried out under the terms of the groups hedging policies and are regularly reviewed by the board to ensure compliance with this policy.
The board reviews its policy on interest rate exposure regularly with a view to establishing that it is still relevant in the prevailing and forecast economic environment.
The current group treasury policy is to maintain floating rate exposure of no greater than 35% of expected borrowing.
As at 30 September 2010, 75% 2009: 93% of the groups gross borrowings were economically hedged to fixed or capped rates.
As at 30 September 2010, the market value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges under IAS 39, is a net liability of 55.6m 2009: net liability of 60.0m.
The movement in fair value measured through the income statement on cash flow hedges in the year ended 30 September 2010 was a charge of 39.6m 2009: charge of 38.7m.
At 30 September 2010, the market value of derivatives not designated as cash flow hedges under IAS 39, is a net liability of 72.7m 2009: net liability of 39.3m.
The cash flows occur and enter in the determination of profit and loss until the maturity of the hedged debt.
The table below summarises debt hedged at 30 September 2010.
Cash flow hedged debt 2010 2009 m m Cash flow hedges maturing: Within one year 75.0 Between one and two years 13.0 82.0 Between two and five years 789.0 958.3 Over five years 55.2 77.0 932.2 1,117.3 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 108 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Financial risk management and derivative financial instruments continued Interest rate profile including the effect of derivatives 2010 2009 Sterling Euro Total Sterling Euro Total m m m m m m Fixed rate 58.6 25.2 83.8 59.0 27.2 86.2 Capped rate 630.0 366.0 996.0 945.2 423.4 1,368.6 Variable rate 292.9 54.3 347.2 81.1 53.9 135.0 981.5 445.5 1,427.0 1,085.3 504.5 1,589.8 At 30 September 2010, the weighted average interest rate of the sterling fixed rate debt is 5.5% 2009: 5.4%.
The weighted average period for which the rate is fixed is 11 years 2009: 12 years.
The weighted average interest rate of the euro fixed rate debt is 1.25% 2009: 1.25%.
The weighted average period for which the rate is fixed is 40 years 2009: 41 years.
Based on the groups interest rate profile at the balance sheet date a 1% increase in interest rates would decrease annual profits by 4.1m 2009: 2.3m.
Similarly a 1% decrease would increase annual profits by 4.1m 2009: 2.3m.
This has been calculated to include the effect of hedge accounting.
Upward movements in medium and long-term interest rates, associated with higher interest rate expectation, increase the value of the groups interest rate swaps that provide protection against such moves.
The converse is true for downward movements in the yield curve.
Where the groups swaps qualify as effective hedges under IAS 39, these movements in fair value are recognised directly in equity rather than the income statement.
Foreign exchange risk The groups foreign exchange risk arises from the exposure due to translating overseas trading performance and overseas net assets into sterling.
The group does not have foreign currency trading with cross border currency flows.
The group hedges foreign currency assets naturally by funding them through borrowings in the applicable foreign currency and aims to ensure that it has no material unhedged net assets or liabilities denominated in a foreign currency.
Profit translation is not hedged.
The groups balance sheet translation exposure is summarised below: 2010 2009 2010 2009 Euro Euro Czech Koruna Czech Koruna m m m m Gross foreign currency assets 459.7 499.1 7.5 8.5 Gross foreign currency liabilities 475.4 534.8 Net exposure 15.7 35.7 7.5 8.5 As at 30 September 2010 it is estimated that a general increase decrease of 10 percentage points in the value of Sterling against the Euro would increase decrease the groups profit before tax by approximately 0.2m 2009 1.6m and equity by 1.6m 2009 3.6m.
As at 30 September 2010 it is estimated that a general increase decrease of 10 percentage points in the value of Sterling against the Czech Koruna would increase decrease the groups profit before tax by approximately 0.3m 2009 0.3m and equity by 0.8m 2009 0.9m.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 109 Credit availability risk Credit availability risk relates to the groups ability to refinance its borrowings at the end of their terms or to secure additional financing where necessary.
The group maintains relationships with a range of lenders and maintains sufficient headroom through cash and committed borrowings.
Although the funding position of the group is very secure for the next two financial years there is already a focus on the need to reshape its sources of long-term funding in an environment where traditional bank lending is likely to remain constrained.
The group is already in discussions to advance a number of initiatives in this regard.
House price risk The cash flows arising from the groups financial interest in property assets CHARM are related to the movement in value of the underlying property assets and, therefore, are subject to movements in house prices.
However, consistent with the groups approach to house price risk across its portfolio of trading and investment properties the group does not seek to eliminate this risk as it is a fundamental part of the groups business model.
At 30 September 2010 it is estimated that, with respect to the groups financial interest in property assets a general increase decrease of one percentage point in house prices at the balance sheet date would increase decrease the groups profit before tax by approximately 0.9m 2009: 0.9m.
Capital risk management The board manages the groups capital through the regular review of: cash flow projections, the ability of the group to meet contractual commitments, covenant tests, dividend cover and gearing.
The group manages the level of its equity shareholders funds by means of dividends, share purchases and share issues.
The rights issue completed in December 2009 is an example of how the board manages the groups capital.
The rights issue proceeds were used, inter alia, to improve balance sheet leverage ratios and to reduce the overall size and cost of the groups debt.
Loans within the group have associated covenant requirements with respect to loan to value and interest cover ratios.
The board regularly reviews all current and future projected covenant levels to monitor anticipated compliance and available headroom against key thresholds.
For the group as a whole the board does not have a specific loan to value target but it is reviewed in the context of the boards view of markets, the prospects of and risks relating to the portfolio and the recurring cash flows of the business.
The group monitors its cost of debt and weighted average cost of capital WACC on a regular basis.
Investment and development opportunities are evaluated using the WACC in order to ensure long-term shareholder value is created.
Certain group subsidiaries are regulated by the Financial Services Authority and therefore have externally applied capital adequacy requirements.
However, these do not have any material impact on the group as a whole.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 110 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Financial assets and liabilities i Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2010 2009 m m Current liabilities Mortgages 0.3 0.3 Bank loans 49.8 11.9 Loan notes 5.5 7.7 55.6 19.9 Non-current liabilities Mortgages 21.5 22.9 Bank loans 1,318.6 1,513.1 Convertible bond 21.6 21.0 1,361.7 1,557.0 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,417.3 1,576.9 Costs relating to the raising of the loan finance set off against the balances shown in the above table amount to 9.7m 2009: 12.9m.
Analysis of bank loans a Core banking facility 2010 2009 m m Term Facility A 198.8 225.0 Term Facility B 176.7 200.0 Revolving Facility A 337.4 392.4 Revolving Facility A Euro 50.7 53.5 Revolving Facility B 196.4 193.0 Revolving Facility B Euro 56.3 59.4 Revolving Facility C Euro 39.9 68.5 Total 1,056.2 1,191.8 Headroom on the core banking facility at 30 September 2010 was 188.1m 2009: 159.5m.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 111 Interest is payable at the agreed margin over LIBOR plus mandatory costs.
The agreed margin and final repayment date of the facilities are as follows: Final Margin % repayment date Facility Term Facility A 0.90 Jun 2013 Term Facility B 0.85 Jun 2013 Revolving Facility A 0.70 Jun 2011 Revolving Facility B 2.00 Dec 2012 Revolving Facility C 1.00 Dec 2012 The core banking facility is secured by floating charges over the assets of the group.
The group has a forward start credit facility comprising a committed term loan of 365m that will become available on 30 June 2011 which will replace the Revolving Facility A expiring on that same date.
b Other UK bank loans 2010 2009 m m Fixed rate Pounds Sterling 36.3 37.3 Variable rate Pounds Sterling 8.5 8.5 44.8 45.8 The fixed rate loan is secured by fixed charges over specific retirement solutions home reversion assets in the groups subsidiary company Hamsard 2517 Limited and bears interest at a fixed rate of 6.32%.
The variable rate loan is secured by fixed charges over specific investment property assets in The Tilt Estate Company Limited and bears interest at 0.9% above base rate.
c European bank loans 2010 2009 m m Variable rate Euro 273.3 296.0 Fixed rate Euro 3.5 3.9 276.8 299.9 Headroom on these facilities at 30 September 2010 amounted to nil 2009: nil.
The variable rate Euro bank loans are secured by floating and fixed charges over the investment property in the groups German residential portfolio.
The loans bear interest at between 0.6% and 2.1% over EURIBOR.
The fixed rate Euro bank loans are secured by floating and fixed charges over the investment property in the groups German residential portfolio.
The loans bear fixed interest rates between 5.2% and 7.5%.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 112 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Financial assets and liabilities continued d Analysis of loan notes 2010 2009 m m Fixed Rate Pounds Sterling 0.3 0.4 Floating rate Pounds Sterling 5.2 7.3 5.5 7.7 The fixed rate loan notes are secured by a bank guarantee and bear interest at a fixed rate of 3.25%.
The floating rate loan notes are secured by bank guarantees and cash collateral and bear interest at between 0.75% and 1% under LIBOR.
e Mortgages 2010 2009 m m Mortgages Euro 21.8 23.3 The mortgages are secured by floating and fixed charges over the investment property in the groups German residential portfolio and bear interest at a fixed rate of 0.5%.
f Convertible bond 2010 2009 m m Opening balance 21.3 92.7 Early conversion during the year 72.2 Amortised during the year 0.6 0.8 21.9 21.3 As part of the early conversion in November 2008, of 87.1m of the 112m 2014 convertible bond, holders accepted a cash payment of 35,000 per 100,000 nominal bond value to convert early.
This cash payment totalling, with expenses, 31.1m is shown in the income statement 2009 comparatives as an inducement cost.
The analysis of the loans and borrowings in the above tables is before deducting unamortised issue costs of 9.7m 2009: 12.9m relating to the raising of the loan finance.
Other loans and borrowings information The core banking facility, variable rate UK bank loans and the European bank loans are generally rolled over every three months.
At roll over, LIBOR, EURIBOR and PRIBOR are reset for the following interest period.
The fixed rate UK bank loan and the mortgages are at a fixed rate of interest which do not reprice.
The fixed rate loan is repayable after more than five years.
The mortgage has repayments of 0.3m within one year, 1.2m within two to five years and 20.3m after more than five years.
The average interest rate on borrowings during the year was 5.6% 2009: 5.7%.
The maturity profile of the groups debt, net of finance costs, is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Within one year 55.6 19.9 Between one and two years 51.4 109.6 Between two and five years 1,144.9 1,275.6 Over five years 165.4 171.8 1,417.3 1,576.9 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 113 The interest rate risk profile of the groups debt after taking into account the various financial derivatives used by the group to manage its interest rate risk is as follows: 2010 Fixed rate Capped rate Floating rate liabilities liabilities liabilities Total m m m m Loan notes 0.3 5.2 5.5 Mortgages Euro 21.8 21.8 Convertible bond 21.9 21.9 Bank loans Pounds Sterling 36.3 630.0 287.9 954.2 Euro 3.5 366.0 54.1 423.6 83.8 996.0 347.2 1,427.0 Unamortised issue costs 9.7 1,417.3 2009 Fixed rate Capped rate Floating rate liabilities liabilities liabilities Total m m m m Loan notes 0.4 7.3 7.7 Mortgages Euro 23.3 23.3 Convertible bond 21.3 21.3 Bank loans Pounds Sterling 37.3 945.1 73.8 1,056.2 Euro 3.9 423.5 53.9 481.3 86.2 1,368.6 135.0 1,589.8 Unamortised issue costs 12.9 1,576.9 The groups borrowings subject to fixed interest rates and to swaps, caps and collars capped rates have the following weighted average interest rates and weighted average maturity dates.
The weighted average interest rates shown are inclusive of loan margins.
2010 Fixed rate Weighted Capped rate Weighted weighted average weighted average average rate period average rate period % years % years Loan notes 3.25 1 Mortgages 0.50 40 Convertible bond 3.63 4 Bank loans Pounds Sterling 6.32 15 6.40 2 Bank loans Euro 4.80 3 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 114 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Financial assets and liabilities continued 2009 Fixed rate Weighted Capped rate Weighted weighted average weighted average average rate period average rate period % years % years Loan notes 3.25 1 Mortgages 0.50 41 Convertible bond 3.63 5 Bank loans Pounds Sterling 6.32 16 6.50 3 Bank loans Euro 5.10 4 ii Financial assets The group has the following cash and cash equivalents at 30 September 2010: 2010 2009 m m Pounds Sterling 77.7 15.9 Euros 13.6 12.2 Czech Koruna 0.2 0.2 91.5 28.3 Short-term deposits totalling 5.4m 2009: 7.5m with an average maturity of three months are held as cash collateral.
These have an effective interest rate of 0.6% 2009: 1.4%.
Included within 2010 year end cash balances is 4.0m 2009: 2.9m held in third-party client accounts where Grainger acts as Trustee or agent.
The corresponding liability is included within trade payables.
At the year end 63.4m was placed on the overnight money market 2009: nil at effective interest rates of between 0.9% and 1.55%.
Remaining cash and cash equivalents are held as cash at bank or in hand.
The group has an overdraft facility of 5m as at 30 September 2010 2009: 5m.
2010 2009 26 Non-current liabilities m m i Trade and other payables Deferred consideration payable 4.0 4.0 Trade and other payables is deferred consideration for the purchase of land at West Waterlooville and is payable in April 2013.
2010 2009 m m ii Provisions for other liabilities and charges Other 0.8 0.9 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 115 27 Pension costs Defined contribution scheme The group operates a defined contribution pension scheme for its employees.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the group in independently administered funds.
Pension arrangements for directors are disclosed in the report of the remuneration committee and the directors remuneration report on page 50.
The pension cost charge in these financial statements represents contributions payable by the group.
The charge of 0.7m 2009: 0.8m is included within employee remuneration in note 10.
Defined benefit scheme In addition to the above, the group also operates a final salary defined benefit pension scheme, the BPT Limited Retirement Benefits Scheme.
The assets of the scheme are held separately in funds administered by trustees and are invested with Axa Sun Life, an independent investment manager.
Costs and funding are assessed with the advice of an independent qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial valuations are carried out every three years and the last full actuarial valuation was undertaken as at 1 July 2007.
This scheme was operated by BPT Limited which became a subsidiary of Grainger plc in 2003.
No benefits have accrued since 30 June 2003 although active members retain a final salary link.
Pension benefits for deferred members are based on the members final pensionable salaries and service at the date employment ceased or date of leaving if earlier.
The company has opted to recognise all actuarial gains and losses immediately through the statement of comprehensive income.
The actuarial valuation as at 1 July 2007 was based on the main actuarial assumptions of an investment return of 6.8% per annum, salary increases of 4.9% per annum and inflation-linked increases to pensions in deferment of 3.4% per annum.
The scheme assets were valued at 17.9m and scheme liabilities at 21.1m, a funding level of 85%.
The funding level for the scheme at the previous valuation as at 1 July 2004 was 79%.
The trustees and the employer have agreed a recovery plan to eliminate the deficit.
This plan will run for seven years with company contributions to the scheme of 48,350 per month, 580,200 per annum.
The actuary also undertook a Section 179 valuation as at 1 July 2007 as required by the Pension Protection Fund.
The funding level on a Section 179 valuation basis was 142%.
The scheme was closed to new members and to employee contributions in 2003.
Accordingly, there is no current service cost for the scheme.
The IAS 19 calculations for disclosure purposes have been based upon the 1 July 2007 actuarial valuation but have been updated to 30 September 2010 by a qualified independent actuary.
Principal actuarial assumptions under IAS 19 2010 2009 Discount rate 4.90% p. a.
Rate of increase of pensions in payment 5.00% p. a.
Rate of increase for deferred pensioners 3.10% p. a.
Year Year commencing commencing 1 October 2010 1 October 2009 Expected return on assets 5.00% p. a.
5.30% p. a. GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 116 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Pension costs continued The overall expected return on assets assumption of 5.00% p. a. as at 30 September 2010 has been derived by calculating the weighted average of the expected rate of return for each asset class.
The following approach has been used to determine the expected rate of return for each asset class: Fixed interest securities, current market yields: Equities, allowance for an additional return of 2.60% p. a. above that available on UK government securities: Property, allowance for an additional return of 2.60% p. a. above that available on UK government securities: and Cash, current Bank of England base rate.
Demographic assumptions 2010 2009 Mortality tables for pensioners 107% of PCA00 year 107% of PCA00 year of of birth tables allowing of birth tables allowing for long cohort for long cohort improvements with improvements with 1.25% minimum 1.25% minimum improvements for males improvements for males and 0.75% minimum and 0.75% minimum improvements for improvements for females each year females each year Mortality tables for non pensioners As for pensioners As for pensioners Life expectancies 30 September 2010 30 September 2009 Males Females Males Females m m m m Life expectancy for a current 65 year old 88.2 years 90.3 years 88.2 years 90.3 years Life expectancy at age 65 for a current 55 year old 89.5 years 91.1 years 89.5 years 91.1 years The other demographic assumptions are the same as those adopted in the Scheme Funding valuation as at 1 July 2007.
Market value of scheme assets and expected rates of return The assets of the scheme are invested in a diversified portfolio.
30 September 2010 30 September 2009 Long-term Long-term Market % of total expected rate Market % of total expected rate value scheme assets of return value scheme assets of return m % % m % % Equities 6.2 33% 6.1% 5.3 32% 6.5% Bonds 7.5 40% 4.4% 7.0 42% 4.4% Properties 0.3 2% 6.1% 0.3 2% 6.5% Other 0.5 3% 0.5% 0.1 0.5% Insurance policies 4.1 22% 4.9% 4.0 24% 5.3% Total value of assets 18.6 100% 16.7 100% The actual return on assets over the period was 2.0 1.9 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 117 The assets of the scheme are held with AXA Sun Life in a managed fund.
As the above table shows, the assets of the scheme are primarily held within equities and bonds.
The equity return of 6.1% in 2010 and 6.5% in 2009 is based on an equity risk premium of 2.6% above the 15-year fixed rate on gilts.
The directors consider this to be at the mid point of the acceptable range.
The return on bonds has been determined by reference to actual yields.
Defined benefit obligations, scheme assets and scheme deficit 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m Total market value of assets 18.6 16.7 15.2 14.0 13.5 Present value of scheme liabilities 24.6 22.5 17.3 16.7 18.1 Scheme deficit at 30 September 6.0 5.8 2.1 2.7 4.6 History of assets, liabilities, experience gains and losses 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Gains losses arising on scheme liabilities: Due to experience 1.3m Percentage of defined benefit obligation 7.5% Due to change of basis 1.6 m 5.0 m 1.7m 2.0m Percentage of defined benefit obligation 6.5 % 22.2 % 9.8% 12.0% Experience adjustments: Gains losses arising on scheme assets 1.1m 1.0m 2.6 m 0.6m Percentage of scheme assets 5.9% 6.0% 17.1 % 4.2% The change in the present value of defined benefit obligation over the year was as follows: 2010 2009 m m Present value of projected defined benefit obligation at start of the year 22.5 17.3 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 1.2 1.1 Actuarial loss 1.6 5.0 Benefits paid 0.7 0.9 Present value of projected defined benefit obligation at end of the year 24.6 22.5 The change in the value of the scheme assets over the year was as follows: 2010 2009 m m Market value of scheme assets at start of the year 16.7 15.2 Expected return on scheme assets 0.9 0.9 Employer contributions 0.6 0.5 Actuarial gain 1.1 1.0 Benefits paid 0.7 0.9 Market value of scheme assets at end of the year 18.6 16.7 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 118 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Pension costs continued Pension cost recognised in the income statement 2010 2009 m m Interest on pension scheme liabilities 1.2 1.1 Expected return on pension scheme assets 0.9 0.9 Total pension cost 0.3 0.2 The total pension cost shown above has been included within interest expense and similar charges see note 12.
Actuarial loss recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2010 2009 m m Actual return less expected return on assets 1.1 1.0 Loss on change of assumptions 1.6 5.0 Total actuarial loss before tax 0.5 4.0 The actuarial loss shown in the above tables of 0.5m 2009: 4.0m has been included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, net of deferred tax see page 60.
Future funding obligation The last actuarial valuation of the Scheme was performed by the Actuary for the Trustees as at 1 July 2007.
The group has agreed a recovery plan with the Trustees to pay annual deficit contributions of 580,200.
The group expects to pay 597,000, including the standard expense charges payable under the Managed Fund policy, to the Scheme during the year beginning 1 October 2010.
The next actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 1 July 2010 is currently being carried out.
Following this valuation, the contributions required to be paid by the group may change.
Sensitivity analysis Set out below is an analysis of how the scheme deficit would vary with changes to the key actuarial assumptions: Discount rate increased by 0.1% decrease in deficit of 0.4m Inflation increased by 0.1% increase in deficit of 0.1m Life expectancies increased by one year increase in deficit of 0.8m The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income before deferred taxation is 2.2m 2009: 1.7m.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 119 28 Deferred tax liabilities The movement in the provision for deferred taxation is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Opening balance 21.1 78.4 Acquisition of subsidiaries in the year 2.4 Recognised in the income statement 9.9 37.2 Recognised in equity: Actuarial loss on BPT pension scheme 0.1 1.1 Fair value movement in cash flow hedges and exchange adjustments 20.0 Equity component of available-for-sale financial asset 0.8 0.7 Exchange adjustments 0.1 0.3 Closing balance 14.2 21.1 In addition to the above, the group has a contingent tax liability representing the difference between the carrying value of trading properties in the balance sheet and their market value.
This contingent tax, which is not provided in the accounts, amounts to 88.4m 2009: 85.7m.
2010 2009 29 Trade and other payables m m Deposits received 3.7 3.6 Trade payables 10.9 7.3 Taxation and social security 1.2 0.3 Accruals and deferred income 41.5 76.9 57.3 88.1 Trade payables includes 0.6m 2009: nil relating to acquisitions of property where contracts have either been unconditionally exchanged or notarised.
Accruals and deferred income includes 22.7m 2009: 26.1m of rent received in advance relating to lifetime leases.
2010 2009 30 Share capital m m Authorised 500,000,000 2009: 160,000,000 ordinary shares of 5p each 25.0 8.0 Allotted, called-up and fully paid 416,362,420 2009: 138,798,113 ordinary shares of 5p each 20.8 6.9 During the year The Grainger Employee Benefit Trusts took up their rights to 2,400,756 shares at a cost of 2.1m and The Grainger Trust Employee Trustee Company Limited took up its rights to 63,858 shares at a cost of 0.1m.
The Grainger Employee Benefit Trusts also acquired 1,600,000 shares during the year at a cost of 1.8m.
In addition, the group paid 0.5m to the share incentive plan during the year for the purchase of matching shares and free shares in the scheme.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 120 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Share capital continued The overall cost of 4.5m has been deducted from retained earnings within shareholders equity see note 33.
As at 30 September 2010, share capital included 46,803 2009: 31,929 shares held by The Grainger Trust Employee Trustee Company Limited, 5,976,623 2009: 1,975,867 shares held by The Grainger Employee Benefit Trusts and 21,410 2009: 21,410 shares held by Grainger plc as treasury shares.
Movements in issued share capital during the year and the previous year were as follows: Nominal value Number 000 At 1 October 2008 128,716,094 6,436 Shares issued following conversion of Convertible Bonds 10,081,013 504 Options exercised under SAYE schemes 1,006 At 30 September 2009 138,798,113 6,940 Issue of shares under the rights issue 277,553,406 13,878 Options exercised under SAYE schemes 10,901 At 30 September 2010 416,362,420 20,818 Share options Certain senior executives hold options to subscribe for shares in the company under long-term incentive schemes.
In addition, the company operates a SAYE share option scheme available to all employees.
The number of shares subject to options as at 30 September 2010, the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they may be exercised are given below.
Prior year numbers have been restated to take account of the rights issue in the year.
For share options outstanding at the end of the year, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 3.0 years 2009: 3.9 years.
There were 21,817 2009: 97,308 share options exercisable at the year end with a weighted average exercise price of 118.0p 2009: 116.7p.
31 Share-based payments The group operates an equity-settled, share-based compensation plan comprising awards under a long-term incentive scheme LTIS, a deferred bonus plan DBP, a share incentive plan SIP and a save as you earn SAYE scheme.
For awards under the 2010, 2009 and 2008 LTIS, one third are subject to an absolute total shareholder return performance condition measured over three years from the date of grant and two thirds are subject to annual growth in Net Net Net Asset Value NNNAV measured over three years from the date of grant.
One third of the awards, therefore, are subject to a market-based performance condition and the remaining two thirds of the awards are subject to a non-market based performance condition.
Those awards subject to a market-based performance condition, have been valued at fair value using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Those awards subject to a non-market-based performance condition have been valued based on the share price at the date the award was granted.
Awards granted in 2010 under the DBP have no specific performance conditions other than continued employment by the group.
There is a three-year vesting period from the date of grant.
One third of the awards vest at the end of each year.
Participants can choose to exercise their awards on vesting or to retain their awards within the plan until the end of the third year at which point a 50% matching element is added to their award entitlement.
Awards under the DBP have been valued based on the share price at the date of the award less the dividend yield at the award date as there is no entitlement to dividends during the vesting period.
Awards under the SAYE scheme have been valued at fair value using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Awards under the SIP scheme have been valued based on the share price at the date the award was granted.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 122 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Share-based payments continued Shares were awarded, subject to any vesting conditions set out above, to executive directors and selected employees during the year under the LTIS and the DBP but there were no options granted in the year under these schemes.
Share options were granted to employees of the group during the year under the SAYE scheme.
The main assumptions used to value the shares and options granted during the year are set out in the tables below.
Conditional share awards over a total of 546,000 shares granted to Nick Jopling and Mark Greenwood on 29 September 2010 are not shown as no share-based payment charge has been made in 2010 relating to these awards on grounds of immateriality given the proximity of the awards to the groups financial year end.
LTIS Share awards: 8 December 8 December 2009 2009 market non-market Award date based based Number of shares on grant 192,278 384,556 Exercise price Vesting period from date of grant years 3 3 Exercise period after vesting years 7 7 Share price at grant 1.305 1.305 Expected risk free rate % 5.310 Expected dividend yield % 0.900 Expected volatility % 26.000 Fair value 0.50 1.305 DBP Share awards: Award date 3 February 2010 Number of shares on grant 516,932 Exercise price Vesting period from date of grant years 1-3 Share price at grant 1.316 Dividend yield 0.017 Fair value 1.299 SAYE 19 July 2010 19 July 2010 3-year scheme 5-year scheme Number of shares on grant 99,694 13,610 Exercise price 0.908 0.908 Vesting period from date of grant years 3 5 Expected exercise date 1 Nov 2013 01 Nov 2015 Share price at grant 1.132 1.132 Expected risk free rate % 1.880 1.880 Expected dividend yield % 2.170 2.170 Expected volatility % 37.000 37.000 Fair value 0.333 0.378 The expected volatility figures used in the valuation were calculated based on the historic volatility over a period equal to the expected term from the date of grant.
The share-based payments charge recognised in the income statement is 1.3m 2009: 0.8m.
Movements in options and options exercisable as at 30 September 2010 are shown in note 30.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 123 32 Changes in equity The consolidated statement of changes in equity is shown on page 63.
Further information relating to the merger reserve and cash flow hedge reserve is provided below.
Merger reserve The merger reserve arose when the company issued shares in partial consideration for the acquisition of City North Group plc.
The issue satisfied the provisions of Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 and the premium relating to the shares issued was credited to a merger reserve.
In December 2009 the group completed a two for one rights issue at an issue price of 90p per share raising a total gross amount of 249.8m, net of costs 236.7m.
The rights issue increased the number of shares in issue by 277,553,406 shares, increasing share capital by 13.9m.
The group took advantage of Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 to take proceeds in excess of the nominal value of shares issued, amounting to 235.9m, to a merger reserve.
The group used a cash-box structure to effect the rights issue and, under this mechanism, 235.9m has been subsequently transferred to retained earnings.
Of this amount 104.5m is currently not distributable.
Costs of issue, which totalled 13.1m have been taken directly to reserves.
Cash flow hedge reserve The fair value movements on those derivative financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting under IAS 39 are taken to this reserve net of tax.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 124 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 33 Movement in retained earnings The retained earnings reserve comprises various elements.
Those elements and the movements in each are set out below: Share-based Treasury shares payment bought back Investment in Translation Retained Total retained reserve and cancelled own shares reserve earnings earnings reserve m m m m m m Balance as at 1 October 2008 2.0 7.8 9.4 1.2 166.0 152.0 Loss for the year 122.0 122.0 Actuarial loss on BPT pension scheme net of tax 2.9 2.9 Net exchange adjustment offset in reserves 0.6 0.6 Purchase of own shares 0.4 0.4 Award of shares from own shares 0.7 0.7 Transfer on conversion of convertible bond 3.2 3.2 Share-based payments charge 0.8 0.8 Dividends paid 5.2 5.2 Balance as at 30 September 2009 2.1 7.8 9.1 1.8 39.1 26.1 Loss for the year 10.8 10.8 Actuarial loss on BPT pension scheme net of tax 0.4 0.4 Net exchange adjustment offset in reserves net of tax 0.9 0.9 Purchase of own shares 4.5 4.5 Award of shares from own shares 0.5 0.5 Rights issue costs 13.1 13.1 Transfer from merger reserve 235.9 235.9 Share-based payments charge 1.3 1.3 Dividends paid 7.4 7.4 Balance as at 30 September 2010 2.9 7.8 13.1 2.7 243.3 228.0 Share-based payments reserve This reserve comprises the cumulative credit entries relating to the share-based payments charge made in the income statement less the average cost of shares issued to employees.
Investment in own shares reserve As at 30 September 2010, the group owned its own shares as follows: 46,803 2009: 31,929 shares held by The Grainger Trust Employee Trustee Company Limited, 5,976,623 2009: 1,975,867 shares held by The Grainger Employee Benefit Trusts and 21,410 2009: 21,410 shares held by Grainger plc as treasury shares.
Details relating to the rights issue and the transfer from merger reserve are set out in notes 32 and 39.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 125 34 List of principal subsidiaries The directors consider that providing details of all subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates as at 30 September 2010 would result in disclosure of excessive length.
The following information relates to those subsidiary undertakings whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the directors, principally affected the group.
A full list will be appended to the next annual return.
Proportion of nominal value of ordinary issued shares held by Group Company Name of undertaking % % Incorporated Activity Northumberland & Durham Property Trust Limited 100 England & Wales Property Trading Grainger Residential Management Limited 100 100 England & Wales Property Management Grainger Asset Management Limited 100 100 England & Wales Asset Management Warren Court Limited 100 England & Wales Property Trading Grainger Hornsey Limited 100 England & Wales Development West Waterlooville Developments Limited 100 England & Wales Development BPT Bradford Property Trust Limited 100 England & Wales Property Trading BPT Residential Investments Limited 100 England & Wales Property Investment Grainger Finance Company Limited 100 100 England & Wales Finance Company Bromley Property Investments Limited 100 England & Wales Finance Company Home Properties Limited 100 England & Wales Property Trading Bridgewater Tenancies Limited 100 England & Wales Property Trading Bridgewater Equity Release Limited 100 England & Wales Property Trading Homesafe Equity Release LP 100 England & Wales Property Trading Sovereign Reversions plc 100 England & Wales Property Trading Hamsard 2517 Limited 100 England & Wales Property Trading Grainger Recklinghausen Portfolio One Sarl & Co KG 100 Germany Property Investment Grainger Recklinghausen Portfolio Two Sarl & Co KG 100 Germany Property Investment Grainger Berlin Portfolio One Sarl & Co KG 100 Germany Property Investment Grainger Stuttgart Portfolio One Sarl & Co KG 100 Germany Property Investment Grainger Stuttgart Portfolio Two Sarl & Co KG 100 Germany Property Investment Francono Rhein-Main Gmbh 100 Germany Property Investment Grainger Luxembourg Financing No.
1 Sarl 100 Luxembourg Finance Company Grainger Luxembourg Financing No.
2 SA 100 Luxembourg Finance Company Grainger Luxembourg Financing No.
3 SA 100 Luxembourg Finance Company Grainger Luxembourg Germany Holdings Sarl 100 Luxembourg Investment Company Grainger Treasury Property 2006 LLP 100 England & Wales Investment Partnership The Tilt Estate Company Limited 100 England & Wales Property Investment Grainger Retirement Housing No.
1 2007 Limited 100 England & Wales Property Investment BPT Limited 100 England & Wales Investment Company All subsidiaries are consolidated in the group accounts.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 126 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 35 Related party transactions During the year and at the year end, the group held a 50% interest in Grainger Geninvest LLP and Grainger Geninvest No.
The group provides a number of services to both partnerships and receives an asset adviser fee, a sales fee, a commercial management fee and a treasury services fee.
Amounts recognised in the income statement and outstanding balances at the year end are as follows: 2010 2010 2009 2009 Fees Year end Fees Year end recognised balance recognised balance 000 000 000 000 Asset adviser fee 691 201 700 199 Sales fee 49 5 43 6 Commercial management fee 28 8 26 7 Treasury fee 30 9 30 8 798 223 799 220 In addition, the group has provided loans to both partnerships as follows: Balance as at Balance as at 2010 2009 30 September 30 September Interest Interest 2010 2009 receivable receivable m m m m Grainger Geninvest LLP 8.5% fixed interest loan note 8.5 7.8 0.7 0.7 Grainger Geninvest No.
2 2006 LLP 11.0% fixed interest loan note 5.5 5.2 0.3 0.3 Grainger Geninvest No.
2 2006 LLP mezzanine loan at LIBOR plus 4% 79.0 75.3 3.8 5.3 93.0 88.3 4.8 6.3 Interest receivable is included within interest receivable from associates and joint ventures see note 12.
The difference of 2.4m between the figure shown above of 4.8m and the amount shown in note 12 of 2.4m is a consolidation adjustment to eliminate interest receivable by the group from the Grainger Geninvest entities against interest payable in those entities to the group.
The loan notes have no fixed repayment date and are subordinated to external financing within each LLP.
If not demanded before, the Grainger Geninvest LLP loan notes are repayable by 23 June 2015 and the Grainger Geninvest No.
2 2006 LLP loan notes by 31 December 2016.
The mezzanine loan is repayable on demand but has a final repayment date of 20 March 2011.
As at 30 September 2010 the group is holding an impairment provision of 7.6m 2009: 9.1m against the mezzanine loan.
The group held a 50% interest in Curzon Park Limited as at 30 September 2010.
The group has provided a loan to Curzon Park Limited as at 30 September 2010 of 12.8m 2009: 7.5m.
The loan is repayable on demand and bears interest at 4% per annum.
As at 30 September 2010 the group is holding an impairment provision of 10.6m against this loan.
The group held a 21.6% interest in G:res 1 Limited as at 30 September 2010.
The group provides a number of services to the fund and receives a property management fee, a lettings and renewal fee, and an asset management fee.
Amounts recognised in the income statement and the outstanding balances at the year end are as follows: GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 127 2010 2010 2009 2009 Fees Year end Fees Year end recognised balance recognised balance 000 000 000 000 Property management fee 1,421 748 1,443 370 Lettings and renewal fee 183 58 167 50 Asset management fee 2,302 1,242 2,229 1,033 3,906 2,048 3,839 1,453 The group held a 21.8% interest in the Schroder Residential Property Unit Trust as at 30 September 2010.
The group provides a number of services to the Trust and receives a property management fee, a lettings and renewal fee, an asset management fee and a sales fee.
In January 2009 the fund investors agreed to a controlled liquidation of the fund and this was virtually completed by 30 September 2010.
As a result, fee income in 2010 is considerably lower than in 2009.
Amounts recognised in the income statement and the outstanding balances at the year end are as follows: 2010 2010 2009 2009 Fees Year end Fees Year end recognised balance recognised balance 000 000 000 000 Property management fees 2 202 19 Lettings and renewal fees 11 9 0 Asset management fees 44 369 67 Sales Fees 118 91 64 175 671 150 Details of key management compensation are provided in note 10.
36 Capital commitments As at 30 September 2010, the group and its joint ventures and associates had capital commitments of nil 2009: nil.
37 Operating lease commitments The future aggregate minimum lease payments payable by the group under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2010 2009 m m Operating leases which expire: Not later than one year 0.3 0.4 Later than one year and not later than five years 2.2 2.7 Later than five years 5.0 5.9 7.5 9.0 The group expects to receive 0.8m under non-cancellable sub-leases 2009: 1.0m.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 128 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 38 Contingent liabilities The properties in certain subsidiary companies forming a guarantee group provide the security for the groups core debt facility.
The properties in certain of the groups German subsidiaries provide security for the non-recourse finance raised in those subsidiary undertakings see note 25 for further details.
Barclays Bank Plc and Lloyds TSB Bank Plc have provided guarantees under performance bonds relating to the Groups UK development division.
In addition they have provided guarantees against certain loan notes issued by the group.
In either case, if called upon the relevant bank would have recourse to the group in relation to these guarantees.
As at 30 September 2010, total guarantees amounted to 2.4m 2009: 4.5m.
In addition, the group has an obligation, under the sale and purchase agreement for the land at West Waterlooville, to pay further consideration should the site value exceed certain pre-agreed amounts.
It is not possible to determine the amount or timing of any such future payments due to the long term nature of the sites development and the associated uncertainties with respect to planning applications.
However, any future payments will not fall due until at least 2015 and will be spread over a number of years.
As explained in more detail in note 19, there is uncertainty relating to the future of the site at Curzon Park in which the group has a 50% joint venture interest.
Should the value of the site, together with any compensation received, be insufficient to repay the bank loan in the joint venture entity, the group may incur charges in excess of those provided in these financial statements, in respect of obligations to the joint venture and the bank.
39 Rights issue In December 2009 the group completed a two for one rights issue at an issue price of 90p per share raising a total gross amount of 249.8m, net of costs 236.7m.
The group took advantage of Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 to take proceeds in excess of the nominal value of shares issued, amounting to 235.9m to a merger reserve.
Under a cash-box mechanism this amount has been subsequently transferred to retained earnings and of this, 104.5m is currently not distributable.
Costs of issue which totalled 13.1m have been taken directly to reserves.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 129 40 Acquisition of PHA Limited On 31 March 2010 the group acquired 100% of the equity in PHA Limited, a company which owns 162 residential properties located in Devon.
The total consideration for the purchase was 15.4m paid in cash.
The acquisition has been treated as a business combination and goodwill of 0.4m arose reflecting the discount obtained against the potential contingent tax inherent in the portfolio.
There has been no impairment of goodwill in the period since acquisition.
The identifiable assets and liabilities acquired were as follows: m Assets Inventories trading property 17.2 Cash and cash equivalents 0.4 Other current assets 0.1 17.7 Liabilities Corporation tax 0.2 Deferred tax 2.4 Other current liabilities 0.1 2.7 Net assets acquired 15.0 Fair value of consideration paid 15.4 Goodwill arising see note 21 0.4 The post acquisition revenue and profit of PHA Limited included within the groups consolidated income statement was 0.5m and 0.3m respectively.
Had the acquisition taken place on 1 October 2009, we estimate on a pro-forma basis, that the revenue and profit of PHA Limited for the 12-month period from that date would have been 1.0m and 0.6m respectively.
41 Acquisition of Sovereign Reversions plc On 9 August 2010 the group acquired Sovereign Reversions plc Sovereign a company which specialises in equity release investment, advice, plan provision and plan administration.
The Sovereign property portfolio on acquisition, was valued at approximately 67.9m.
Grainger Equity Release Limited GERL paid 34.2m for 100% of the issued share capital of Sovereign excluding acquisition costs.
The fair value of assets and liabilities acquired was 73.1m and 34.4m respectively.
The fair value of net assets acquired therefore was 38.7m.
The resulting gain on acquisition of 4.5m has been credited to the income statement in accordance with IFRS 3 Revised.
The purchase was made with the intention of entering into a joint venture with Moorfield Real Estate Fund II Equity Release Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Moorfield Real Estate Fund II Moorfield.
Moorfield is a UK-based real estate investor and Fund Manager.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 130 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 41 Acquisition of Sovereign Reversions plc continued Subsequent to the Grainger year end, on 12 October 2010, GERL received a cash consideration of 17.5m from Moorfield for a 50% stake in Sovereign valued at 19.2m.
The group has provided for the resulting loss of 1.7m in these financial statements.
In accordance with IFRS 5 all of the assets and liabilities of Sovereign as at 30 September 2010 have been classified as a disposal group held-for-sale.
This is because the disposal group meets the two criteria set out in IFRS 5 of being available for sale in its present condition and the sale being highly probable.
Included on the face of the consolidated statement of financial position are total assets of 70.7m and total liabilities of 34.1m relating to Sovereign.
These balances comprise the following: m Total assets Inventories trading property 66.5 Cash and cash equivalents 3.1 Other current assets 1.1 70.7 Total liabilities Bank loans 28.2 Deferred tax 4.9 Other current liabilities 1.0 34.1 A net gain of 2.8m, comprising the gain on acquisition of 4.5m and impairment loss of 1.7m has been credited to the consolidated income statement and is shown in the segmental analysis in note 4 within the retirement solutions segment.
The Sovereign assets and liabilities are also shown as part of the retirement solutions segment in note 4.
42 Post balance sheet events As stated in note 41, the group sold 50% of its equity stake in Sovereign Reversions plc on 12 October 2010.
There are no other post balance sheet events requiring disclosure in these financial statements.
