Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 131 Independent auditors report on the parent company financial statements We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Grainger plc for the year ended 30 September 2010 which Companies Act 2006 comprise the parent company balance sheet and the related In our opinion: notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be applied in their preparation is applicable law and United audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally the Companies Act 2006: and Accepted Accounting Practice.
The information given in the Directors Report for the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent As explained more fully in the statement of directors company financial statements.
responsibilities set out on page 55, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company Matters on which we are required to report financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a by exception true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent We have nothing to report in respect of the following company financial statements in accordance with applicable matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to law and International Standards on Auditing UK and report to you if, in our opinion: Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for not been received from branches not visited by us: or and only for the companys members as a body in The parent company financial statements and the part of accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these agreement with the accounting records and returns: or opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified purpose or to any other person to whom this report is by law are not made: or shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Other matter An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give We have reported separately on the group financial reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free statements of Grainger plc for the year ended from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 30 September 2010. error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall Bowker Andrews Senior Statutory Auditor presentation of the financial statements.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Opinion on financial statements Newcastle upon Tyne In our opinion the parent company financial statements: 10 December 2010 Give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 30 September 2010: Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
