Operating Risk Statement Risk is a natural part of any business.
The management of risk is a key operating component of the Group.
The manner in which this is carried out is very important tothe long-term success of the business.
The Group has identified, evaluated and put inplace strategies to mitigate the principal risks faced by the business, shown in the tablebelow: Area of Risk Description of Risk Mitigation of Risk Land The inability to source suitable land at satisfactory Endeavour to ensure that a land bank with planning margins would have a detrimental effect on the permission for at least three years construction Groups land bank and, consequently, its future programme is in place on a rolling basis.
Thorough pre-purchase due diligence and viability assessments.
Authorisation of land purchases in line with robust Group procedures.
Planning Delays and the increased complexity of the planning Centralised and Regional Planning Directors provide process hampers and slows the Groups growth advice and support to divisions to assist with prospects.
progressing the planning permission process.
Sales Ensuring that the effects of any diminution in the In consultation with Head Office, local divisional size of the market place, the ability of prospective management determines product range and customers to access credit facilities or the sales pricing strategy commensurate with regional prices achieved are managed in such a way as to market conditions.
limit any adverse financial or operational effects Use of sales incentives where appropriate toencourage on the Groups performance.
the selling process, such as part-exchange and Express Mover.
Use of government-backed schemes to encourage home ownership where appropriate.
Ensuring that construction rates are managed to ensure stock availability matches sales rates.
Construction Ensuring that appropriately skilled personnel are Identifying training needs and allocating appropriate available and that suitable materials are also available resources to training.
Ensuring systems are in place for engaging, monitoring and controlling work carried out by sub-contractors.
Ensuring competitive reward systems are inplace.
Group purchasing arrangements in place tosecure materials at competitive prices.
Environment Housebuilding has a significant effect on the It is our objective to ensure that at the conclusion environment.
It is important that the effects of the ofadevelopment an attractive and sustainable new Groups developments are, as far as possible, positive environment has been created that will continue over rather than negative.
See our Environmental Policy on page 17, or our website at www.
co. uk, for further information.
22 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Area of Risk Description of Risk Mitigation of Risk Health and Safety It is important to ensure that the Group has adequate The Board considers health and safety issues at each systems in place to mitigate, as far as possible, the Board meeting.
dangers inherent in the construction process.
Regular visits to sites by senior management independent of our divisions and external consultants to monitor health and safety standards and performance against the Groups health and safety policies and procedures.
Personnel Attracting and retaining the correct personnel is key The Group offers a competitive salary and to the Groups long-term success.
Failure to do so benefits package.
willseverely affect the Groups ability to perform Divisional training plans in place.
Succession planning for key posts.
98% of site workers including sub-contractors are fully accredited under CSCS.
Information It is vital that the Group has suitable systems in place Group-wide systems in place which are centrally Technology to ensure that, as far as possible, a smooth flow of controlled with outsourced support function in place.
information operates throughout the Group and that the risk of system loss is mitigated and supported byappropriate contingency plans.
Asset Protection The way in which the Group carries out its The Group prepares viability assessments onallof its operations can have a material effect on the value land purchases and construction projects, and keeps ofits assets.
these under regular reviewto protect, wherever possible, the valueof its assets.
Treasury Ensuring suitable financial resources, at appropriate Central negotiation and control of banking facilities Management costs, are in place to meet Group requirements.
toensure liquidity and debt levels are appropriate.
Facilities distributed across various sources.
Careful management and monitoring of cash forecasts.
Legal and Disadvantageous contractual obligations, regulatory Central secretariat, human resources and legal functions Regulatory fines or adverse publicity by failing to comply with advise divisions on compliance and ensure policies and Compliance current laws and regulations or to have  are kept up to date to minimise risk of worded contracts in place.
In addition, the Board ensures that adequate insurance cover is maintained to underpin and support the many areas in which the Group is exposed to risk of loss.
Bellway p. l. c. 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
