Glossary Affordable Housing Social rented and intermediate housing provided to specified eligible households whose needs are not met by the market, at a cost low enough for them to afford, determined with regard to local incomes and local house prices.
Average selling price Calculated by dividing the total price of homes sold by the number of homes sold.
Brownfield sites Land which has been previously used for other purposes.
Cancellation rate The rate at which customers withdraw from a house purchase after paying the reservation fee, but before contracts are exchanged, usually due to difficulties in obtaining mortgage finance.
Reservation fees are refunded in line with the Consumer Code for Home Builders.
Code for Sustainable Homes A national standard for sustainable design and construction of new homes.
The Code measures the whole home as a complete package, assessing its sustainability against nine categories: energy CO, water, materials, surface water run-off, waste, pollution, health and well-being, 2 management and ecology.
Level 3 applies to newly-constructed Affordable Housing subject to Homes and Community Agency HCA grant policy and all homes built on HCA land from 1 April 2008.
Considerate Constructors Scheme A national initiative by the construction industry, where companies and sites voluntarily register and agree to be monitored against, a Code of Considerate Practice, with a view to promoting best practice beyond statutory requirements.
Consumer Code for Home Builders A voluntary code governing customer service and satisfaction, created by the NHBC in conjunction with MD Insurance Service Limited.
CSCS cards The CSCS card denotes achievement of a Construction Skills Certificate, demonstrating occupational competence in the construction industry.
EcoHomes An environmental rating scheme for UK homes.
Home Zones Residential streets in which the road space is shared between drivers of motor vehicles and other road users, with the wider needs of residents including children who walk and cycle, in mind.
The aim is to change the way that streets are used and to improve the quality of life in residential streets by making them for people, not just for traffic.
For more information see www.
Land bank A supply of plots for potential development.
Lifetime Homes Are ordinary homes incorporating 16 Design Criteria which add to the comfort and convenience of the home and supports the changing needs of individuals and families at different stages of life.
Pipeline Land bank awaiting planning permission.
Planning consent permission Usually granted by the local planning authority, this permission allows a plot of land to be built on, change its use or for an existing building to be redeveloped or altered.
Consent is either outline, when detailed plans are still to be approved, or detailed when detailed plans have been approved.
Registered Social Landlords RSLs Government-funded not-for-profit organisations that provide affordable housing, such ashousing associations, trusts and cooperatives.
Working alongside local authorities, they provide homes for people meeting the affordablehomes criteria.
As well as developing land and building homes, RSLs perform a landlord function by maintaining properties andcollectingrent.
80 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Safemark Certificate NHBCs Health & Safety Competence Assessment Scheme.
Section 106 planning agreements These are legally-binding agreements or planning obligations entered into between a landowner and a local planning authority, under Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990.
These agreements are a way of delivering or addressing matters that are necessary to make a development acceptable in planning terms.
They are increasingly used to support the provision of services and infrastructure, such as highways, recreational facilities, education, health and affordable housing.
Secured by Design Focuses on crime prevention at the design, layout and construction stages of homes and commercial premises and promotes the use of security standards for a wide range of applications and products.
Social housing Housing that is let at low rents and on a secure basis to people in housing need.
It is generally provided by councils and not-for-profit organisations such as housing associations.
Sustainability Environmental sustainability has been defined as meeting the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs.
Sustainable Urban Drainage Systems SUDS Designed to reduce the environmental effects of surface water run-off, which has been a problem with conventional drainage systems, particularly in new developments.
SUDS replicate natural systems with minimal environmental effect, draining away dirty and surface water through collection, storage and cleaning.
Transport node A point at which residents are able to access a public transport facility with ease.
Waste Management Plan Plans setting out how all resources, products and by-products will be managed and waste controlled at all stages of a construction project.
Site Waste Management Plans are a legal requirement for all sites with an estimated construction cost of over 300,000.
Bellway p. l. c. 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
