Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Accounting Policies Basis of preparation Bellway p. l. c. the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
Both the Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs and have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for other financial assets, which are stated at their fair value.
On publishing the Company financial statements here together withthe Group financial statements, which were approved for issue on 18 October 2010, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part ofthese financial statements.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Effect of new standards and interpretations effective for the first time The following new standards, amendments to standards or interpretations have been adopted in the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 July 2010.
They have had no material effect on the Groups financial statements.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Amendment.
These amendments are solely presentational and have been fully reflected p inthese financial statements.
This amendment requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the p acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of the asset, removing the option to immediately expense such costs.
The Board has concluded that the Group does not hold any qualifying assets.
The Board will continue to assess whether this amendment is applicable to future assets under construction.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amended.
The amendments remove the definition of the cost method p currently set out in IAS 27, and instead, require all dividends from a subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate to be recognised in the separate financial statements of the investor when the right to receive the dividend is established.
The Board has concluded that there is no effect on the Groups financial statements.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Amendment.
The amendment provides exemptions from the requirement to classify p certain financial instruments as a liability where an entity has an unavoidable obligation to deliver cash arising on liquidation.
The Board hasconcluded that the Group does not hold any applicable financial instruments.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure Amendment.
This amendment expands the disclosures required relating to fair value p measurements and liquidity risk.
These disclosures have been reflected in these financial statements.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments replaces IAS 14 Segmental Reporting and requires the disclosure of segment information on the same basis p as the management information that is regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The Board has been identified as the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The adoption of the standard has not resulted in a change in the Groups reportable segments note 1.
The Group continues to have one reportable segment which is house building in the United Kingdom.
The definition of vesting conditions in IFRS 2 has been amended to clarify that vesting p conditions are limited to service conditions and performance conditions.
Conditions other than service or performance conditions are considered non-vesting conditions.
The amendment also specifies that all cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment, i. e. an acceleration of the charge, rather than being treated as a reversal.
The Board has concluded that there is no significant effect on the Groups financial statements.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
This interpretation p outlines when refunds or reductions in future contributions can be treated as available under IAS 19 Employee Benefits and how a minimum funding requirement affects future contributions or may give rise to a liability.
The Board has concluded that this does not affect the Groups financial statements in the current year.
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate.
This interpretation provides guidance on whether construction of real estate p should be accounted for under IAS 11 Construction Contracts or IAS 18 Revenue.
The Group already accounts for the construction of real estate in accordance with IFRIC 15.
The Board has therefore concluded that this interpretation does not affect the Groups financialstatements.
The other standards and interpretations that are applicable for the first time in the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 July 2010, have no effect on these financial statements.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates andassociated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readilyapparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chief Executives Operating Review on pages 6 to 11.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Group Finance Directors Review on pages 18 to 21.
Note 18 to the financial statements sets out the Groups policies and processes for managing its capital, financial risk, and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Bellway p. l. c. 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Accounting Policies continued Basis of preparation continued The Groups activities are financed principally by a combination of ordinary shares, preference shares, bank borrowings and cash in hand.
During the year the Group generated cash of 102.5 million arising from a combination of trading activities and a share placing on 6 August 2009, which raised 43.658 million net of issue costs.
The Group has operated within all of its banking covenants throughout the year.
At 31 July 2010 cash, net of borrowings excluding preference shares, was 65.7 million.
In addition, the Group had bank facilities of 305.0 million, expiring in tranches up to April 2015, with 225.0 million available for drawdown under such facilities at 31 July 2010.
The directors consider that the Group is well placed to manage business and financial risks in the current economic environment and have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these accounting policies and Adopted IFRSs, that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year, are discussed below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 July.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups proportionate share of the significant entities assets, liabilities, income and expenses with items of a similar nature on a line by line basis, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases.
The Group and Company own 25%50% of the ordinary share capital of several small entities and the results, assets and liabilities of these jointly controlled entities have been proportionately consolidated.
Property, plant and equipment Items are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is charged tothe income statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives over the following number of years: Plant, fixtures and fittings 3 to 10 years.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Investment property Investment property is initially recognised at cost.
Subsequent to recognition, investment property is measured using the cost model and iscarried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is charged, where material, so as to write off the cost less residual value of the investment properties over their estimated useful lives.
The residual values and useful lives of investment properties are reviewed at each financial year end.
The useful life of investment properties has been assessed as 100 years 2009 40 years.
The Group has assessed the residual values as highly likely to exceed cost and has therefore determined that no depreciation should be charged 2009 nil.
The increase in the assessment of the useful life of the investment properties from 40 years to 100 years accordingly has no effect on the financial statements.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost, in relation to work in progress and showhomes, comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads, not including any general administrative overheads, that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less allestimated costs of completion and overheads.
Land held for development, including land in the course of development until legal completion of the sale of the asset, is initially recorded atcost.
Regular reviews are carried out to identify any impairment in the value of the land by comparing the total estimated selling prices lessestimated selling expenses against the book cost of the land plus estimated costs to complete.
Provision is made for any irrecoverable amounts.
Where, through deferred payment terms, the fair value of land purchased differs from the amount that will subsequently be paid insettling the liability, the difference is charged as a finance expense in the income statement over the period to settlement.
Options purchased in respect of land are capitalised initially at cost.
Regular reviews are carried out for impairment in the value of these options, and provisions made accordingly to reflect loss of value.
The impairment reviews consider the period elapsed since the date of purchase of the option given that the option contract has not been exercised at the review date.
Further, the impairment reviews consider the remaining life of the option, taking account of any concerns over whether the remaining time available will allow a successful exercise ofthe option.
The carrying cost of the option at the date of exercise is included within the cost of land purchased as a result of the option exercise.
Investments in land without the benefit of planning consent, either through the purchase of land or non-refundable deposits paid on land purchase contracts subject to planning consent, are included initially at cost.
Regular reviews are carried out for impairment in the values ofthese investments and provision made to reflect any irrecoverable element.
The impairment reviews consider the existing use value oftheland and assess the likelihood of achieving planning consent and the value thereof.
48 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are stated at their fair value at the date of initial recognition and subsequently at amortised cost less allowances for impairment.
Other financial assets Other financial assets are classified as being available-for-sale and are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss being recognised directly in equity within retained earnings, except for impairment losses and changes in future cash flows, which are recognised directly in the income statement.
When these investments are fide-recognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income statement.
Where these investments are interest-bearing, interest calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the income statement.
A description of the valuation technique is given in note 14 on page 59.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash balances in hand and in the bank including short term cash deposits.
The Group utilises bank overdraft facilities, which are repayable on demand, as part of its cash management policy.
As a consequence, bank overdrafts are included asa component of net cash and cash equivalents within the cash flow statement.
Offset arrangements across Group businesses are applied to arrive at the cash and overdraft figures in the balance sheet.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Interest bearing loans and borrowings are stated at their fair value at the date of initial recognition and subsequently at amortised cost.
Trade and other payables Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Trade payables on deferred terms, most notably in relation to land purchases, are recorded initially at their fair value.
The discount to nominal value is amortised over the period tosettlement and charged to finance expenses.
Preference share capital Preference share capital is redeemable on 6 April 2014 or at the option of the Company subject to relevant conditions set out in note 16 and is classified as a liability.
Dividends Dividends on redeemable preference shares are recognised as a liability and accrued using the effective interest rate method.
They are recognised in the income statement within finance expenses.
Other dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Classification of equity instruments and financial liabilities issued by the Group Equity instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: a they include no contractual obligations upon the Company or Group as the case may be to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company or Group : and b where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Companys exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takesthe legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Grants Grants are included within work in progress in the balance sheet to the extent that they contribute to construction costs and within deferred income to the extent that they contribute to site income.
Grants are credited to the income statement over the life of the developments to which they relate.
Revenue recognition Revenue from private housing sales and land is recognised when transactions have legally completed.
Incentives Sales incentives are substantially cash in nature but include part-exchange costs which mainly relate to amounts written down, where the part-exchange allowance given to the purchaser of the new home is greater than the valuation of the part-exchange property.
Incentives are accounted for by reducing the housebuild revenue by the cost to the Group of providing the incentive.
Sales incentives also include shared equity schemes which are accounted for as Other Financial Assets.
Revenue is recognised at the initial fair value of the Other Financial Assets as described above.
Rental income Rental income is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Bellway p. l. c. 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Accounting Policies continued Part-exchange properties The purchase and subsequent sale of part-exchange properties is an activity undertaken in order to achieve the sale of a new property.
As such, the activity is regarded as a mechanism for selling.
Impairments and gains or losses on the sale of part-exchange properties are classified as a cost of sale.
Any subsequent write-down below the part-exchange valuation is recognised in cost of sales.
Contingent liabilities Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year and takes into account current and deferred taxation.
The charge is recognised inthe income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity in which case it is recognised in equity.
Deferred taxation is provided for all temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset canbe utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Employee benefits retirement benefit costs For the defined benefit scheme, the liability is calculated at the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
The fair values of scheme assets are then deducted.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
All actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the Statement of Comprehensive Income SOCI.
Further details ofthe scheme and the valuation methods applied may be found in note 25 on pages 66 to 69.
Defined contribution pension costs are charged to the income statement in the period for which contributions are payable.
Employee benefits share-based payment In accordance with IFRS 2, the fair value of equity settled share options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured as at the date the options are granted and the charge is only amended if vesting does not take place due to non-market conditions not being met.
Various option pricing models are used according to the terms of the option scheme under which the options were granted.
The fair value is spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of options that vest.
At the balance sheet date, if it is expected that non-market conditions will not be satisfied, the cumulative expense recognised in relation to the relevant options is reversed.
IFRS 2 has been applied to options granted after 7 November 2002 which had not vested at 1 January 2005.
With respect to share-based payments, a deferred tax asset is recognised on the relevant tax base.
The tax base is then compared to the cumulative share-based payment expense recognised in the income statement.
Deferred tax arising on the excess of the tax base over the cumulative share-based payment expense recognised in the income statement has been recognised directly in equity outside the SOCI as share-based payments are considered to be transactions with shareholders.
A deferred tax asset relating to awards issued before 7 November 2002, which follow the exemption of IFRS 1 and have not been accounted for under IFRS 2, has been recognised on transition.
Subsequent reversal of the deferred tax asset and any excess tax benefits are recognised directly in equity.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recognises, in its individual financial statements, an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity settled share-based payment charge recognised in its consolidated financial statements, with the corresponding credit being recognised in equity.
Own shares held by ESOP trust Transactions of the Company-sponsored ESOP trust are included in both the Group financial statements and the Companys own financial statements.
The purchase of shares in the Company by the trust are charged directly to equity.
Operating leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
50 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Finance income and expenses Finance income includes interest receivable on bank deposits.
Other financial assets relate to the deferred element of revenues receivable from the sale of homes under shared equity schemes.
The discounting of these other financial assets produces a notional interest receivable amount and this has been credited to cost of sales in the current year.
This amount was credited to finance income in the previous year.
Theamount relating to the year ended 31 July 2009 has not been restated as it is not considered to be significant.
Finance expenses includes interest on bank borrowings and dividends on redeemable preference shares.
The discounting of the deferred payments for land purchases produces a notional interest payable amount and this is also charged to finance expenses.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are those which, in the opinion of the Board, are material by size or nature, non-recurring, and of such significance that they require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement.
Accounting estimates and judgements Management considers the key estimates and judgements made in the financial statements to be related to: Valuation of work in progress and land held for development Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value, less payments on account.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less all estimated costs of completion and overheads.
Valuations of site work in progress arecarried out at regular intervals and estimates of the cost to complete a site and estimates of anticipated revenues are required to enable a development profit to be determined.
Management are required to employ considerable judgement in estimating the profitability of a site and in assessing any impairment provisions which may be required.
Exceptional items For both the years ended 31 July 2010 and 31 July 2009, a full review of inventories has been performed and write downs have been made where cost exceeds net realisable value.
Estimated selling prices have been reviewed on a site-by-site basis and selling prices have been amended based on local management and the Boards assessment of current market conditions.
For the year ended 31 July 2010 no exceptional charge has resulted from the review.
In the year ended 31 July 2009 a total exceptional charge of 66.3 million, made up of 58.9 million from site reviews, and 7.4 million from option cost and part-exchange property write downs, was charged to the income statement.
Whilst management remain cautious, selling prices and volumes have stabilised, however the market remains fragile.
Should there be further significant movements in selling prices, either further reductions or a stepped recovery, exceptional charges or credits may be necessary.
Pension The Group has utilised a rate of return on assets and a discount rate having been advised by its actuary.
To the extent that such assumed rates are different from what actually transpires, the pension liability of the Group would change.
Income taxes A certain degree of estimation and judgement is required in establishing the tax figures prior to formal resolution with HMRC.
In accordance with the contingent asset rules, detailed in IAS 37, the Groups policy is to be prudent in assessing the level of benefit which may accrue.
Other financial assets The fair value of future anticipated cash receipts takes into account the directors view of future house price movements, the expected timing of receipts and the likelihood that a purchaser defaults on a repayment.
The directors revisit the future anticipated cash receipts from the assets at the end of each reporting period as detailed in note 14 on page 59.
Standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following relevant Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue and endorsed by the EU but not yet effective: Annual Improvements 2009.
This is a collection of amendments to 12 standards as part of the IASB programme of annual improvements.
p Most of the amendments are effective for the Group for the period beginning 1 August 2010.
The amendment provides clarification of the standard and requires additional p disclosures in relation to financial instruments.
This is effective for the period beginning on 1 August 2011.
The Board anticipates that these amendments will be adopted in the Groups financial statements in the year they become effective and that the adoption of these amendments will not have a significant effect on the Groups financial statements.
Of the other IFRSs that are available for early adoption, none are expected to have a material effect on the financial statements.
Bellway p. l. c. 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
