Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Mike R Toms Date of Birth: 1 July 1953 Mr Toms was appointed a non-executive director on 1 February 2009.
He is currently non-executive Chairman of Northern Ireland Electricity plc, and a non-executive director ofUK Coal PLC and Birmingham Airport Holdings Limited.
He was formerly an executive director of BAA plc and was a non-executive director of Viridian Group PLC.
He is a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors MRICS and a member of the Royal Town Planning Institute MRTPI.
He is Chairman of the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration, and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees of the Board.
John A Cuthbert Date of Birth: 9 February 1953 Mr Cuthbert was appointed a non-executive director on 1 November 2009.
He is a member of the Audit and the Nomination Committees and the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration.
Mr Cuthbert worked in the water industry from 1991 to 2010, when he retired as Managing Director of Northumbrian Water Group plc, having formerly been Managing Director of North East Water plc and Managing Director of Essex and Suffolk Water plc.
He is Chairman of Castle View Enterprise Academy in Sunderland.
Group Company Secretary G Kevin Wrightson Date of Birth: 27 October 1954 Mr Wrightson, a Chartered Secretary, joined Bellway in 1990.
He has held senior posts within the Group, including that of Deputy Group Secretary, before being appointed asGroup Company Secretary on 1 August 2002.
Advisers Group Company Secretary Registrars and Transfer Office Financial Advisers andRegistered Office Capita Registrars Limited N M Rothschild & Sons Limited G K Wrightson FCIS Northern House Stockbrokers Bellway p. l. c. Woodsome Park Citigroup Global Markets Limited Seaton Burn House Fenay Bridge Dudley Lane, Seaton Burn Huddersfield Bankers Newcastle upon Tyne NE13 6BE West Yorkshire HD8 0LA Barclays Bank PLC Registered number 1372603 Lloyds Banking Group plc Auditors KPMG Audit Plc Bellway p. l. c. 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
