Shareholder Information Annual General Meeting AGM This section is important.
If you are in any doubt as to what action to take you should consult an appropriate independent financial adviser.
If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in Bellway p. l. c. you should pass this document and all accompanying documents to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Special business Four resolutions will be proposed as special business at the forthcoming AGM.
The effect of these resolutions is as follows: Resolution 8 Authority to directors to issue shares This is an ordinary resolution which authorises the directors to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 5,034,700, which isequivalent to approximately one-third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 18 October 2010, and also gives the directors authority to allot, by way of rights issue only, ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 10,069,400, which is equivalent to approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 18 October 2010, such authority, if granted, to expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2012.
As at 18 October 2010 the Company held no shares as treasury shares.
At present, the directors only intend to use this authority to satisfy the exercise of awards under the Companys share schemes.
The directors wish to obtain the necessary authority from shareholders so that allotments can be made if required and if suitable market conditions arise at short notice and without the need to convene a general meeting of the Company which would be both costly and time consuming.
Resolution 9 Disapplication of pre-emption rights This is a special resolution and is the customary annual request, in substitution for the authority granted to the directors by shareholders on 15 January 2010 which expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM, that shareholders empower the directors to allot ordinary shares for cash without first offering them pro rata to existing shareholders as would otherwise be required by section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 a in connection with a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer and b otherwise than in connection with a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer up to an aggregate nominal value of 755,205, being approximately equal to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital oftheCompany as at 18 October 2010.
Resolution 10 Companys purchase of its own shares The Companys authority to purchase its own ordinary and preference shares, given at the last AGM, expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
This authority was not used during the year.
The directors propose, as a special resolution, that it should be renewed fora further year to expire on the date of the 2012 AGM.
The directors will review opportunities to use this authority in light of stock market conditions and trading opportunities during the year.
The directors will only make purchases which will reduce the number of shares in issue after paying due attention to the effect on the financing of the Group, its assets and earnings per share for the remaining shareholders.
Any shares purchased under this authority may becancelled in which case the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly or may be held in treasury.
Resolution 11 Length of notice of meeting Shareholder approval for general meetings of the Company other than AGMs to be held on 14 days notice, given at the last AGM, expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
The directors propose, as a special resolution, that it should be renewed for a further year to expire on the date of the 2012 AGM.
Recommendation Your directors consider each of the resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
Takeovers Directive Where not provided in the Directors Report the following sets out the information required to be provided to shareholders in compliance with the Takeovers Directive.
Share capital The Companys total issued ordinary and preference share capital as at 31 July 2010 consisted of 120,831,922 ordinary shares of 12.5p each representing 43% of the Companys total issued share capital and 20,000,000 9.5% Cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares 2014 of 1 each representing 57% of the Companys total issued share capital.
Further details of the issued capital of the Company and brief details ofthe rights in relation to the preference shares can be found in note 16 to the accounts.
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary and preference shares in the Company are set out in the Articles of Association the Articles.
Copies of the Articles can be obtained from Companies House or by writing to the Group Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares The restrictions on the transfer of shares are set out in the Articles.
In addition, in compliance with the FSA Listing Rules, Company approval is required for directors, certain employees and their connected persons to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
No person has special rights of control over the Companys share capital.
Rights in relation to the shares held in the employee benefit trust The voting rights on shares held in the employee benefit trust in relation to the Companys employee share schemes are exercisable by the trustees.
74 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Restrictions on voting rights Details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights are set out in the Companys Articles.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Appointment and replacement of directors The Companys rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in the Articles and are summarised in the Directors Report on pages 26 and 28.
Amendments to the Companys Articles of Association The Company may amend its Articles by passing a special resolution at a general meeting of its shareholders.
Powers of the Board The business and affairs of the Company are managed by the directors, who may exercise all such powers of the Company as are not by law or by the Articles required to be exercised by the Company in general meetings.
Subject to the provisions of the Articles, all powers of the directors are exercised at meetings of the directors which have been validly convened and at which a quorum is present.
Allotment of shares During the year 77,794 new ordinary shares were issued to satisfy awards made under the Companys employee share schemes and 5,747,648 new ordinary shares were issued by way of a placing with new and existing institutional shareholders.
Thedirectors have authority to allot shares within limits agreed by shareholders.
Details of the renewal of this authority are set out on page74, and Resolutions 8 and 9 inthe Notice of Meeting of the AGM to be held on 7 January 2011 on page 77 seek to renew thisauthority.
Purchase of own shares The Company has not purchased any of its own shares during the year.
The directors have authority to purchase the Companys own shares within limits agreed by shareholders.
Details of the renewal of this authority are set out on page 74, and Resolution 10 in the Notice of Meeting of the AGM to be held on 7 January 2011 on page 78 seeks to renew this authority.
Significant agreements change of control provisions The Company is party to a number of banking agreements which may be terminable in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Agreements for compensation for loss of office following a change of control The service agreements between the Company and the executive directors and the Group Company Secretary contain provisions that entitle the individual to terminate the agreement following a takeover offer and receive an amount equivalent to one years salary, benefits and the average amount of the last two years annual bonus payment.
Financial calendar Announcement of results and ordinary dividends Half year March Full year October Ordinary share dividend payments Interim July Final January Preference share dividend payments at the rate of 9.5% per annum paid half yearly April and October Annual report posted to shareholders November Final ordinary dividend ex-dividend date 8 December 2010 Final ordinary dividend record date 10 December 2010 AGM 7 January 2011 Final ordinary dividend payment date 12 January 2011 Shareholders by size of holding at 31 July 2010 Holdings Shares Number % Holding % 0 2,000 1,997 71.81 1,299,061 1.07 2,001 10,000 441 15.85 1,855,142 1.54 10,001 50,000 139 5.00 3,263,404 2.70 50,001 and over 204 7.34 114,414,315 94.69 Total  Bellway p. l. c. 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shareholder Information continued Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP Shareholders may agree to participate in the Companys DRIP to receive dividends in the form of shares in Bellway p. l. c. instead of in cash.
For further information please e-mail Capita Registrars Limited at shares@capitaregistrars.
com or telephone 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
If calling from overseas please call 44 208 639 3399.
Lines are open from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm on Monday to Friday excluding Bank Holidays.
Non-sterling bank account Capita Registrars can now convert your dividend into your local currency and send you the funds by currency draft, or they may be able to pay them straight into your overseas bank account.
For further information on Capitas International Payment Service e-mail Capita Registrars Limited at IPS@capitaregistrars.
Lines are open from 9.00 am to 5.30 pm London time on Monday to Friday excluding Bank Holidays.
Share dealing service The Companys registrars, Capita Registrars Limited, provide a share dealing service to existing shareholders to buy or sell the Companys shares.
Online and telephone dealing facilities provide an easy to access and simple to use service.
For further information on this service, or to buy or sell shares, please contact: www.
com for online dealing, or call 0871 458 4577 for telephone dealing.
Please note that the directors of the Company are not seeking to encourage shareholders to either buy or sell their shares in the Company.
Shareholders in any doubt as to what action to take are recommended to seek financial advice from an independent financial adviser, authorised under the terms of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Discount to shareholders The following discount arrangement is currently available to shareholders.
Should you intend to purchase a new Bellway home, you will be entitled to a discount of 2,000 per 25,000, or pro rata on part thereof, ofthe purchase price provided that: a you have been the registered holder of at least 2,000 ordinary shares for a minimum period of 12 months prior to the reservation of your new home: and b you inform our sales representative on-site when reserving your property that you are claiming shareholder discount.
The above discount arrangement is only available to shareholders on the Companys Register of Members.
Employees of investing companies or members of investing institutions would not therefore be eligible.
Underlying beneficial shareholders would be entitled to benefit from the arrangements.
For further details please contact the Group Company Secretary, Bellway p. l. c. Seaton Burn House, Dudley Lane, Seaton Burn, Newcastle upon Tyne NE13 6BE, telephone 0191 217 0717 or e-mail kevin.
Beneficial owners of shares with information rights Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to the registered holder of their shares rather than to the Companys registrar, Capita Registrars Limited, or to the Company directly.
Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting Further reporting on the Companys Corporate Social Responsibility activities is available to view in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of the Companys website www.
76 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010
