96 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Shareholder information Key dates for 2011 Date Annual General Meeting 4 May Financial half year end 30 June Announcement of half year results 18 August Website Professional advisers and service providers Visit our investor relations website www.
com for full up to date Solicitors investor relations information, including the latest share price, recent CMS Cameron McKenna LLP annual and half year reports, results presentations and financial news.
Mitre House 160 Aldersgate Street London Shareholder enquiries EC1A 4DD For shareholder enquiries please contact our Registrars, Equiniti.
For general enquiries please call our Shareholder Services helpline on: Registrars 0871 384 2018 overseas holders need to ring 44 0 121 415 7047.
Equiniti Calls to Equinitis 0871 numbers are charged at 8p per minute from Aspect House a BT landline.
Other telephony service providers costs may vary.
Spencer Road Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, Lancing excluding bank holidays.
West Sussex BN99 6DA For further administrative queries in respect of your shareholding please access our Registrars website at www.
co. uk Auditors  LLP 1 Embankment Place Electronic communications London WC2N 6RH If you would prefer to receive shareholder communications electronically in future, including your annual and half yearly reports Joint Stockbrokers and notices of meetings, please visit our Registrars website, UBS Investment Bank www.
co. uk and follow the link to Sign up for paper- 1 Finsbury Avenue free communications.
London EC2M 2PP Numis Securities Ltd The London Stock Exchange Building 10 Paternoster Square London EC4M 7LT Principal Bankers Barclays Bank Plc 1 Churchill Place London E14 5HP Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements Certain statements included in this Annual Report are forward-looking Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from and are therefore subject to risks, assumptions and uncertainties that those estimated by the forward-looking statements include, but are not could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or limited to: implied because they relate to future events.
These forward-looking global economic business conditions: statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the monetary and interest rate policies: Companys expectations.
Forward-looking statements can be foreign currency exchange rates: identified by the use of relevant terminology including the words: equity and property prices: believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, plans, goal, the impact of competition, inflation: target, aim, may, will, would, could or should or, in each case, changes to regulations, taxes: their negative or other variations or comparable terminology and changes to consumer saving and spending habits: and include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a our success in managing the above factors.
number of places throughout this Annual Report and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations Consequently, our actual future financial condition, performance and and those of our officers, directors and employees concerning, results could differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations amongst other things, our results of operations, financial condition, set out in our forward-looking statements.
The Company undertakes liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the businesses we operate.
no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
