48 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2010 On an  basis, the Group recognises any 1.
General information non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the nonSavills plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
is a leading international property advisory Group.
The Group operates through a network of offices in the UK, Europe, Asia Pacific and the The results of subsidiary undertakings that have been sold during the US.
Savills is listed on the London Stock Exchange and employs year are included up to date of disposal.
The profit or loss is calculated 21,588 staff worldwide.
by reference to the net asset value at the date of disposal, adjusted for purchased goodwill previously included on the balance sheet and The Company is a public limited company incorporated and foreign exchange reserve balances on retranslation.
domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered office is 20 Grosvenor Hill, Berkeley Square, London W1K 3HQ.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains arising between Group companies are eliminated in preparing the These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by consolidated financial statements.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries the Board of Directors on 16 March 2011. have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Accounting policies Investments in subsidiaries held by the Company are held at cost, The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these less any provision for impairment.
consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless Transactions with non-controlling interests otherwise stated, and are also applicable to the parent Company.
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from Basis of preparation non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with those non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
When the Group ceases to have control or significant influence, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, with the The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
The fair value is convention, as modified to include the revaluation of available-for-sale the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting financial assets and financial assets and financial liabilities including for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial derivative instruments at fair value through profit and loss.
In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as the use of certain critical accounting estimates and for management to if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
exercise judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 4. influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts Consolidation previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified The consolidated accounts include the accounts of the Company and to profit or loss where appropriate.
its subsidiary undertakings, together with the Groups share of results Associates of its associates and joint ventures.
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant Subsidiaries influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group, where control is between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally are accounted for using the equity method and are initially recognised accompanying a shareholding of more than half of the voting rights.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition exercisable and convertible are considered when assessing whether see Note 16 a. the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
is recognised in the income statement and its share of post-acquisition The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other method.
For the purpose of consolidation, the purchase consideration comprehensive income.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements is allocated between the underlying net assets acquired, including are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
contingent liabilities and intangible assets other than goodwill, on the Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its basis of their fair value.
The excess of the consideration transferred, associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the associates.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the Accounting policies of associates have been aligned to ensure subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
on dilution of the Groups share of equity in associates are recognised in the income statement.
49 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued The differences between retained profits of foreign subsidiaries and 2.
Accounting policies continued associated undertakings translated at average and closing rates of Joint ventures exchange are taken to reserves, as are differences arising on the A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more retranslation of foreign net assets to Sterling at the end of the year parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control, using closing rates of exchange.
Any differences that have arisen which exists only when the strategic financial and operating decisions since 1 January 2004 are presented as a separate component of relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the venturers.
As permitted under IFRS 1, any differences prior to that date The Groups joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
are not included in this separate component of equity.
Segment reporting When a foreign operation is sold, exchange differences that were Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the recorded in equity are recognised in the income statement as part of internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for allocating the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
has been identified as the Group Executive Board.
Property, plant and equipment A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost includes that are different from those of other business segments.
expenditure directly attributable to acquisition.
Subsequent costs are A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate within a particular economic environment that is subject to risks and asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that the future economic returns that are different from those of segments operating in other benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of economic environments.
the item can be measured reliably.
As the Group is strongly affected by both differences in the types of Provision for depreciation is made at rates calculated on a straight-line services it provides and the geographical areas in which it operates, basis to write off the assets over their estimated useful lives as follows: the matrix approach of disclosing both the business and geographical segments formats is used.
Freehold property 50 years Revenues and expenses are allocated to segments on the basis that Leasehold property less than 50 years over unexpired they are directly attributable or the relevant portion can be allocated on term of lease a reasonable basis.
Furniture and office equipment 3 6 years Foreign currency translation Motor vehicles 3 5 years Functional and presentation currency Computer equipment 3 years Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups Useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic sheet date.
environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its is also the Companys functional and presentation currency.
recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Transactions and balances Goodwill Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of a currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the subsidiary or associate over the Groups share of the fair value of transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the identifiable net assets acquired.
settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in In respect of associates, goodwill is included in the carrying value of foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except the investment.
when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying net Separately recognised goodwill is tested annually for impairment and investment hedges.
carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities on goodwill are not reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss and are recognised in entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
the income statement, except for available-for-sale equity investments, which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Non-monetary items carried at historical cost are reported using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
50 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued Impairment of non-financial assets 2.
Accounting policies continued Assets that have indefinite useful lives are not subject to amortisation Goodwill continued and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever an indicator of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating impairment exists.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit the carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets fair value less cost from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
The Group to sell and its value-in-use.
allocates goodwill to each business segment in the geographical region in which it operates Note 14.
Value-in-use is determined using the discounted cash flow method, with an appropriate discount rate to reflect market rates and specific Intangible assets other than goodwill risks associated with the asset.
Intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations and incremental contract costs are valued at fair value on acquisition and For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the amortised over the useful life.
Fair value on acquisition is determined lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows by third-party valuations where the acquisition is significant.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs that are Financial instruments directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance software products controlled by the Group are recognised as sheet at fair value when the Group becomes party to the contractual intangible assets when the following criteria are met: provisions of the instrument.
Subsequent measurement depends on the classification and is discussed below: it is technically feasible to complete the software product so that it will be available for use: Available-for-sale investments Available-for-sale investments are stated at fair value, with changes management intends to complete the software product and use or in fair value being recognised in other comprehensive income.
sell it: When such investments are disposed or become impaired, the there is an ability to use or sell the software product: accumulated gains and losses, previously recognised in other comprehensive income, are recognised in the income statement.
it can be demonstrated how the software product will generate probable future economic benefits: Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the measured at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
development and to use or sell the software product are available: Receivables are discounted where the time value of money is material.
and A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when the expenditure attributable to the software product during its there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect development can be reliably measured.
all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Measurement subsequent to initial recognition is at cost less Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor accumulated amortisation and impairment.
will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade Intangible assets are tested for impairment where there is an indication receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference that an asset may be impaired.
An impairment loss is recognised to between the assets carrying amount and the present value of the extent that the carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets fair estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective value less cost to sell and its value-in-use.
Amortisation charges are interest rate.
spread on a straight-line basis over the period of the assets estimated useful lives as follows: The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the Computer software 3 5 years income statement within other operating expenses.
When a trade Property management contracts 2 10 years receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously Incremental contract costs 10 years written off are credited against other operating expenses in the Business and customer relationships 6 10 years income statement.
Brands 5 years 51 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued A deferred income tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is 2.
Accounting policies continued probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Cash and cash equivalents asset can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are not Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held on discounted.
Deferred income tax is determined using the tax rates that call with banks, together with other short-term highly liquid investments have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet with original maturities of three months or less and working date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is capital overdrafts, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes realised or deferred tax liability is settled.
Income tax and deferred tax is in value.
Bank overdrafts are included under borrowings in the recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates statement of financial position.
to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income, in which Bank borrowings case it is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair Pension obligations value, net of transaction costs incurred, and subsequently measured The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group Trade payables pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal Trade payables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to Trade payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within employee service in the current and prior periods.
A defined benefit one year or less.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or Derivative financial instruments and hedging more factors, such as age, years of service and compensation.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and if so, obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
the nature of the item being hedged.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value Certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting.
In these cases, of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the changes in the fair value of all derivative instruments are recognised estimated future cash outflows.
immediately in the income statement.
The defined benefit scheme charge consists of current service costs, Gains and losses relating to the effective portion of hedges of interest costs, expected return on plan assets, past service costs and net investments in foreign operations are recognised in other the impact of any settlements or curtailments and is charged as an comprehensive income.
Gains or losses relating to the ineffective expense as they fall due.
portion are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income All actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed or sold.
other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Share capital The Group also operates a defined contribution Group Personal Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly Pension Plan for new entrants and a number of defined contribution attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity individual pension plans.
Contributions in respect of defined as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
When share capital is contribution pension schemes are charged to the income statement repurchased, the amount of consideration paid, including directly when they are payable.
The Group has no further payment obligations attributable costs, is recognised as a charge to equity.
Repurchased once the contributions have been paid.
Prepaid contributions are shares which are not cancelled, or shares purchased for the Employee recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction Share Ownership Trusts, are classified as treasury shares and in the future payments is available.
presented as a deduction from total equity.
The net defined benefit cost is allocated amongst participating Group Taxation subsidiaries on the basis of pensionable salaries.
Taxation is that chargeable on the profits for the period, together with Share-based payments deferred taxation.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the The Group operates equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the sheet date in the countries where the Group operate and generate grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
Where applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation, provisions are established where appropriate on the Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about basis of amounts expected to be paid.
the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which Deferred income tax is recognised using the liability method, on all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
At the end temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and of each reporting period, the entity revises its estimates of the number liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their tax base.
of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group to equity.
and it is probable that it will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
52 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued Property and facilities management 2.
Accounting policies continued Share-based payments continued Revenue represents fees earned for managing properties and Equity-settled share-based payments granted after 7 November 2002 providing facilities and is generally recognised in the period the services that had not vested as of 1 January 2005 are measured at fair value at are provided using a straight-line basis over the term of the contract.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the Fund management equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares Revenue represents commissions and fees receivable, net of that will eventually vest.
marketing costs in accordance with the relevant fee agreements.
The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments is measured by Annual management fees are recognised, gross of costs, in the period the use of Actuarial Binomial option pricing model.
At each balance to which the service has been provided, in accordance with the sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options contracted fee agreements.
Transaction fees are recognised on the that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of date of completion of a purchase or sale transaction.
Distribution fees the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a are recognised on the completion of a signed subscription agreement corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
and performance fees are recognised as earned and when approved The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs by the fund.
are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when Financial services the options are exercised.
Insurance commission revenue is recognised when the insurance Employee Benefit Trust policy sold is in effect and the amount of commission earned is The Company has established the Savills plc 1992 Employee Benefit determinable.
Indemnity commission is recognised when the policy Trust the EBT, the purposes of which are to grant awards to sold is in effect.
Mortgage commission is recognised on completion.
employees, to acquire shares in the Company pursuant to the Savills Deferred Share Bonus Plan and the Savills Deferred Share Plan and to Work in progress hold shares in the Company for subsequent transfer to employees on Work in progress generally relates to consultancy revenue and is the vesting of the awards granted under the schemes.
The assets and stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes an liabilities of the EBT are included in the Group statement of financial appropriate proportion of overheads.
Investments in the Groups own shares are shown as a deduction from equity.
Interest income Provisions Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or effective interest method.
constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that Dividend income the Group will be required to settle that obligation and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the Directors Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the is established.
balance sheet date and are discounted to present value where the Other income effect is material.
Other income includes interest and dividend income on available-forRevenue sale investments plus fair value gains and losses on assets at fair value Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or through profit or loss.
receivable for the provision of services in the ordinary course of the Groups activities.
Revenue is shown net of value-added tax and Leases amounts due to third parties and after elimination of revenue within Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has the Group.
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Residential transactional fees Finance lease assets are initially recognised at an amount equal to the Generally, where contracts are unconditional, revenue is recognised lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease on exchange of contracts, however, on more complex contracts, payments at inception of the lease.
The assets are then depreciated revenue will be recognised on the date of completion.
On multi-unit over the lower of the lease terms or the estimated useful lives of developments, revenue is recognised on a staged basis, commencing the assets.
when the underlying contracts are exchanged.
The capital elements of future obligations under finance leases are Commercial transactional fees included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
Leasing payments comprise Generally, revenue is recognised on the date of completion or when capital and finance elements and the finance element is charged to the unconditional contracts have been exchanged.
Property consultancy The annual payments under all other lease agreements operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis Revenue in respect of property consultancy represents commissions over the lease term.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive and fees recognised on a time basis, fixed fee or percentage of to enter into the operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis completion.
53 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued IFRIC 17, Distribution of non-cash assets to owners effective 2.
Accounting policies continued on or after 1 July 2009.
This interpretation provides guidance on Leases continued accounting for arrangements whereby an entity distributes nonA lease is classified as onerous where the unavoidable costs of cash assets to shareholders either as a distribution of reserves or meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic as dividends.
IFRS 5 has also been amended to require that assets benefits expected to be received under it.
are classified as held for distribution only when they are available for Dividends distribution in their present condition and the distribution is highly Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the Groups probable.
This does not have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the financial statements.
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation Standards, amendments and interpretations to standards effective effective 1 July 2009.
This amendment states that, in a hedge of a in 2010 net investment in a foreign operation, qualifying hedging instruments The following new standards and amendments to standards are may be held by any entity or entities within the Group, including the mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning foreign operation itself, as long as the designation, documentation 1 January 2010: and effectiveness requirements of IAS 39 that relate to a net investment hedge are satisfied.
In particular, the Group should IAS 27 revised Consolidated and separate financial statements.
clearly document its hedging strategy because of the possibility The revised standard requires the effects of all transactions with of different designations at different levels of the Group.
non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no This interpretation does not have a material impact on the Groups change in control and these transactions will no longer result in financial statements.
goodwill or gains and losses.
The standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost.
Any remaining interest in the entity IAS 38 amendment, Intangible assets.
The amendment clarifies is remeasured to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised in profit guidance in measuring the fair value of an intangible asset acquired or loss.
The revised standard was applied to the acquisition of in a business combination and permits the grouping of intangible further interests in Savills Sweden AB and Cordea Savills LLP assets as a single asset if each asset has similar useful economic and the sale and repurchase of a non-controlling share in Savills lives.
This amendment does not have a material impact on the Singapore PTE.
These were accounted for as transactions with Groups financial statements.
non-controlling equity holders and 14.6m was charged to equity IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements.
Previously this would have been capitalised to goodwill.
The amendment clarifies that the potential settlement of a liability See note 16 f for further details of these transactions.
The Group by the issue of equity is not relevant to its classification as current has applied the new policy prospectively to transactions occurring or non-current.
By amending the definition of current liability, the on or after 1 January 2010.
As a consequence, no adjustments amendment permits a liability to be classified as non-current were necessary to any of the amounts previously recognised in provided that the entity has an unconditional right to defer the financial statements.
settlement by transfer of cash or other assets for at least 12 months IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations.
The revised standard after the accounting period notwithstanding the fact that the entity continues to apply the acquisition method to business could be required by the counterparty to settle in shares at any time.
combinations, with some significant changes.
For example, all This amendment does not have a material impact on the Groups payments to purchase a business are recorded at fair value at financial statements.
the acquisition date, with contingent payments classified as debt IAS 36 amendment, Impairment of assets.
The amendment subsequently remeasured through the income statement.
There is clarifies that the largest cash-generating unit or group of units to a choice on an  basis to measure the which goodwill should be allocated for the purposes of impairment non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the testing is an operating segment, as defined by paragraph 5 of IFRS non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net 8, Operating segments.
This amendment does not have a material assets.
All acquisition-related costs are expensed.
The revised impact on the Groups financial statements.
standard was applied to the acquisition of 100% of the voting share capital of Incoll Management Pty Limited.
Acquisition costs of 0.2m IFRS 2 amendments, Group cash-settled share-based payment have been included in the income statement.
In addition to incorporating IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2, would have been included in the consideration for the acquisition.
and IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions, the See Note 16 e for further details of this transaction.
The change in amendments expand on the guidance in IFRIC 11 to address the accounting policy has been applied prospectively and consequently classification of group arrangements that were not covered by that no adjustments were necessary to any of the amounts previously interpretation.
The new guidance does not have a material impact recognised in the financial statements.
on the Groups financial statements.
54 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued Standards, amendments and interpretations to standards that are not 2.
Accounting policies continued yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group Standards, amendments and interpretations to standards effective The following standards and amendments to published standards are in 2010 continued mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January IFRS 8, Operating segments.
The amendment changes total 2011, and have not been early adopted: assets from a mandatory reporting requirement for reportable segments to only being required where total assets for segments IFRS 9, Financial instruments.
This standard is the first step in the are regularly reported to the chief operating decision maker.
process to replace IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and The Group does not disclose segmental assets to the chief measurement.
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for classifying operating decision maker, but voluntarily discloses non-current and measuring financial assets and is likely to affect the Groups assets on a geographical basis.
accounting for its financial assets.
The standard is not applicable until 1 January 2013 but is available for early adoption.
The amendment provides additional guidance the standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The Group is regarding the determination as to whether an entity is acting as an yet to assess IFRS 9s full impact.
However, initial indications are that agent or principal.
The new guidance does not have a material it may affect the Groups accounting for its available-for-sale financial impact on the Groups financial statements.
assets, as IFRS 9 only permits the recognition of fair value gains and Other standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2010 losses in other comprehensive income if they relate to equity and not discussed above are not relevant to the Group.
These include: investments and the Group makes an irrevocable election to present gains and losses on that investment in other comprehensive IFRS 1 amendment, First time adoption additional exemptions, income.
In the current reporting period, the Group recognised effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 1.0m of such losses in other comprehensive income.
IAS 32 amendment, Classification of rights issues.
IAS 39 amendment, Financial instruments: Recognition and The amendment applies to annual periods beginning on or after measurement, on Eligible hedged items, effective for accounting 1 February 2010.
The amendment periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. addresses the accounting for rights issues that are denominated in IFRIC 12, Service concession arrangements, effective for a currency other than the functional currency of the issuer.
accounting periods beginning on or after 30 March 2009.
Provided certain conditions are met, such rights issues are now classified as equity regardless of the currency in which the exercise IFRIC 18, Transfer of assets from customers, effective for transfers price is denominated.
Previously, these issues had to be accounted of assets from customers received on or after 31 October 2009. for as derivative liabilities.
The amendment applies retrospectively in IFRS 5 amendment, Non-current assets held for sale and accordance with IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in accounting discontinued operations, disclosure of non-current assets estimates and errors.
The Group will apply the amended standard or disposal groups classified as held for sale or discontinued from 1 January 2011.
It is not expected to have any impact on the operations, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after Groups financial statements.
IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments, IAS 7, Statement of cash flows, classification of expenditures on effective 1 July 2010.
The interpretation clarifies the accounting by unrecognised assets, effective for accounting periods beginning an entity when the terms of a financial liability are renegotiated and on or after 1 January 2010. result in the entity issuing equity instruments to its creditor to extinguish all or part of the financial liability debt for equity swap.
IAS 17, Leases, classification of leases of land and buildings, It requires a gain or loss to be recognised in profit or loss, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the 1 January 2010. financial liability and the fair value of the equity instruments issued.
IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement, If the fair value of the equity instruments issued cannot be reliably treating loan prepayment penalties as closely related embedded measured, the equity instruments should be measured to reflect the derivatives, scope exemption for business combination contracts, fair value of the financial liability extinguished.
The Group will apply cash flow hedge accounting, effective for accounting periods the interpretation from 1 January 2011.
It is not expected to have beginning on or after 1 January 2010. any impact on the Group or the parent entitys financial statements.
IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
55 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement amendments to 2.
The amendments correct an unintended consequence Standards, amendments and interpretations to standards that are not of IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group continued funding requirements and their interaction.
Without the IFRS 3 amendment, Business combinations.
Firstly, the amendments, entities are not permitted to recognise as an asset amendments clarify that the requirements in IAS 39 do not apply to some voluntary prepayments for minimum funding contributions.
contingent consideration that arose from a business combination This was not intended when IFRIC 14 was issued, and the whose acquisition date preceded the application of IFRS 3 revised amendments correct this.
The amendments are effective for annual 2008 and to provide guidance on how to account for such periods beginning 1 January 2011.
Secondly, it limits the choice of accounting applied to nonThe amendments should be applied retrospectively to the earliest controlling interests to those that are present ownership instruments comparative period presented.
The Group will apply these and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entitys net amendments for the financial reporting period commencing on assets in the event of liquidation.
Thirdly, it now provides guidance 1 January 2011.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the on share-based payment transactions of an acquiree that the Groups financial statements.
acquirer chooses to replace and clarifies that those awards should be accounted for in the same way as acquiree awards that the Other standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective and acquirer is obliged to replace.
The Group will apply these not discussed above are not relevant to the Group.
These include: amendments from 1 January 2011.
It is not expected to IFRS 7 amendment, Financial instruments: Disclosures on have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
derecognition transfers of financial assets, effective for accounting IFRS 7 amendment, Financial instruments: Disclosures.
periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
The amendment clarifies that the disclosure requirement in IFRS 1 amendment, First time adoption financial instrument respect of maximum exposure to credit risk applies only to disclosures, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after financial assets whose carrying amounts do not show the reporting 1 July 2010, accounting policy changes in the year of adoption, entitys maximum exposure to credit risk in order to avoid repetition.
revaluation basis as deemed cost, use of deemed cost for The requirements to disclose the carrying amount of financial assets operations subject to rate regulation, effective for accounting periods that would otherwise be past due or impaired whose terms have beginning on or after 1 January 2011. been renegotiated and the fair value of collateral and other credit enhancements have been removed.
The Group will apply these IAS 24 amendment, Related party disclosures, disclosures for amendments from 1 January 2011.
It is not expected to have a state-controlled entities, effective for accounting periods beginning material impact on the Groups financial statements.
IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements.
IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes, fair value of award The amendment clarifies that entities may present required credits, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after reconciliations for each component of other comprehensive 1 January 2011. income either in the statement of changes in equity or in the notes to the financial statements.
It also reinforces the disclosure of dividends per share either in the statement of changes in equity or the notes to the financial statements.
The Group will apply these amendments from 1 January 2011.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
IAS 34 amendment, Interim Financial Reporting.
The amendment aligns the disclosures required by IAS 34 with those of other IFRSs and takes into account some of the disclosures required by IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures around fair value measurement.
56 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued Price risk 3.
Financial risk management The Group is not materially exposed to equity securities price risk Financial risk factors because listed investments held on the balance sheet are not The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks.
The Group is not exposed to commodity price risk.
The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks Interest rate risk to limit the adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group.
The Group has both interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
The Group Occasionally, the Group uses financial instruments to manage foreign finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank currency and interest rate risk.
borrowings, at both fixed and floating interest rates.
Borrowings issued The treasury function is responsible for implementing risk management at variable rates expose the Group cash flow to interest rate risk, policies applied by the Group and has a policy and procedures manual which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates.
Borrowings that sets out specific guidelines on financial risks and the use of issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
financial instruments to manage these.
Group policy is to maintain at least 70% of its borrowings in fixed rate instruments.
Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange For the year ended 31 December 2010, if the average interest rate for risks primarily with respect to the Euro, Hong Kong dollar, Australian the year had changed with all other variables held constant, the Group dollar and US dollar.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future post tax profit for the year would have increased or decreased commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and as shown below: net investments in foreign operations.
The Group finances some Increase in interest rates overseas investments through the use of foreign currency borrowings.
The Group does not actively seek to hedge risks arising from foreign m 0.50% 1.00% 1.50% 2.00% currency translations due to their non-cash nature and the high costs 2010 associated with such hedging: however when there is a material Estimated impact on postcommitted foreign currency exposure the foreign exchange risk will tax profit 0.2 0.3 0.5 0.7 be hedged.
2009 For the year ended 31 December 2010, if the average currency Estimated impact on postconversion rates against Sterling for the year had changed with all tax profit 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 other variables held constant, the Group post tax profit for the year would have increased or decreased as shown below: Decrease in interest rates m 0.50% 1.00% 1.50% 2.00% Movement of currency against Sterling 2010 m 20% 10% 10% 20% Estimated impact on post- 2010 tax profit 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.2 Estimated impact on post-tax profit 2009 Euro 0.9 0.5 0.6 1.4 Estimated impact on postHong Kong dollar 1.2 0.6 0.8 1.8 tax profit 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 US dollar 0.7 0.4 0.5 1.1 Credit risk Estimated impact on components of equity Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial Euro 5.2 2.8 3.4 7.7 instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well Hong Kong dollar 16.3 8.9 10.9 24.5 as credit exposures to clients, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
The Group has policies that require US dollar 3.0 1.6 2.0 4.5 appropriate credit checks on potential customers before business 2009 commences.
A risk control framework is used to assess the credit Estimated impact on post-tax profit quality of clients, taking into account financial position, past experience and other factors.
Euro 0.8 0.4 0.5 1.2 Hong Kong dollar 0.6 0.3 0.4 0.8 Individual risk limits for banks and financial institutions are set based on external ratings and in accordance with limits set by the Board.
US dollar 1.7 0.9 1.1 2.5 The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored.
Estimated impact on components of equity As at the balance sheet date, no significant credit risk existed in relation Euro 3.9 2.1 2.6 5.9 to banking counterparties.
No credit limits were exceeded during the Hong Kong dollar 13.0 7.1 8.6 19.5 reporting period, and management does not expect any losses from non-performance by these counterparties.
There were no other US dollar 3.7 2.0 2.5 5.6 significant receivables or individual trade receivable balances as at 31 December 2010.
57 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued Less than Between Between 3.
Financial risk management continued m 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years Credit risk continued 2009 The table below shows Group cash balances split by counterparty ratings at the balance sheet date: Borrowings 5.6 4.9 3.8 Loan notes 0.7 0.3 2010 2009 Counterparty rating provided by S&P m m Derivative financial instruments 0.7 AAA 5.1 Trade and other payables 141.6 10.8 1.1 AA 12.2 11.8 147.9 16.0 5.6 AA 32.2 23.1 A 30.5 23.5 Capital risk management A 8.3 5.4 The Groups objectives when managing capital are: A 7.6 5.6 to safeguard the Groups ability to provide returns for shareholders BBB or below 6.4 7.1 and benefits for other stakeholders: and Total 97.2 81.6 to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
Savills plc is not subject to any externally imposed capital Liquidity risk requirements, with the exception of our FSA regulated entities, which The Group maintains appropriate committed facilities to ensure the complied with all capital requirements during the year ended Group has sufficient funds available for operations and expansion.
The Group prepares an annual funding plan approved by the Board which sets out the Groups expected financing requirements for the In order to maintain an optimal capital structure, the Group may next 12 months.
adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity reserve comprising undrawn borrowing facilities Note 22 and cash and cash The Board has put in place a distribution policy which takes into equivalents Note 19 on the basis of expected cash flow.
This is account the degree of maintainability of Savills different profit streams carried out at local level in the operating companies of the Group in and the Groups overall exposure to cyclical Transaction Advisory accordance with Group practice as well as on a Group consolidated profits, as well as the requirement to maintain a certain level of cash basis.
resources for working capital and corporate development purposes.
The Board will recommend an ordinary dividend broadly reflecting the The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and net-settled profits derived from our less volatile businesses.
In addition, when derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on profits from the cyclical Transaction Advisory business are strong, the the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual Board will consider and, if appropriate, recommend the payment of a maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual supplemental dividend alongside the final ordinary dividend.
The value undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their of any such supplemental dividend will vary depending on the carrying balances, as the impact of discounting is not significant.
performance of the Groups Transaction Advisory business and the Less than Between Between Groups anticipated working capital and corporate development m 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years requirements through the cycle.
It is intended that, in normal 2010 circumstances, the combined value of the ordinary and supplemental dividends declared in respect of any year are covered at least 1.5 times Borrowings 5.8 3.9 by statutory retained earnings and or at least 2.0 times by underlying Loan notes 0.4 profits after taxation.
Finance leases 0.1 0.1 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.4 Trade and other payables 185.7 16.8 0.5 192.1 21.2 0.5 58 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued The fair value of listed available-for-sale investments is based on 3.
Financial risk management continued quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market The Groups policy is to borrow centrally if required to meet anticipated price is the current bid price.
These instruments are included in Level 1. funding requirements.
These borrowings, together with cash generated from operations, are then on-lent or contributed as equity to The fair value of unlisted available-for-sale investments is determined certain subsidiaries.
The Board of Directors monitors a number of debt using valuation techniques using observable market data where measures on a rolling forward 12 month basis including gross cash by available and rely as little as possible on entity estimates.
The fair value location: gross debt by location: cash subject to restrictions: total debt of investment funds is based on underlying asset values determined by servicing cost to operating profit: gross borrowings as a percentage of the Fund Managers audited annual financial statements.
Fair value of EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation : other unlisted investments is based on price earnings models.
and forecast headroom against available facilities.
These internal These instruments are included in Level 2. measures indicate the levels of debt that the Group has and are closely The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined by using monitored to ensure compliance with banking covenants and that the valuation techniques using observable market data.
The fair value of Group has sufficient unused facilities.
derivative financial instruments is based on the market value of similar The capital structure is as follows: instruments with similar maturities.
These instruments are included in Level 2.
Group Company If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable m 2010 2009 2010 2009 market data, the instrument is included in Level 3.
Critical accounting estimates and management judgements Cash and cash equivalents 97.2 81.6 19.2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions Bank overdrafts 0.7 0.7 6.3 Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on Borrowings 9.6 14.6 historical experience, current market conditions and other factors Net cash debt 86.9 66.3 6.3 19.2 including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from Fair value estimation these estimates.
Changes in accounting estimates may be necessary if The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are there are changes in circumstances on which the estimate was based, measured at fair value at 31 December 2010: or as a result of new information or more experience.
The estimates m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the 2010 next financial year are discussed below.
Assets Pension benefits Available-for-sale investments The present value of the defined benefit pension obligations depends Unlisted 14.2 14.2 on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions including the discount rate.
Any changes in Total assets 14.2 14.2 these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension Liabilities obligations.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at Derivative financial instruments 0.5 0.5 the end of each year.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that Total liabilities 0.5 0.5 are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related measured at fair value at 31 December 2009: pension liability.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market conditions.
Additional information is m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total disclosed in Note 9.
2009 Income taxes Assets The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Available-for-sale investments Judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
There are transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax Unlisted 0.2 13.8 14.0 determination i s uncertain.
Where the final tax outcome of these Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such Total assets 0.2 13.9 14.1 differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 0.7 0.7 Total liabilities 0.7 0.7 59 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 4.
Critical accounting estimates and management judgements continued Fair value of options granted to employees The Group uses the Binomial Model in determining the fair value of options granted to employees under the Groups various schemes as detailed in the Remuneration Report.
Information on such assumptions is contained in Note 26.
The alteration of these assumptions may impact charges to the income statement over the vesting period of the award.
Estimated impairment of assets The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
All other assets are tested for impairment where there are indicators of impairment.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimate of future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing operation of the cash-generating unit and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value.
Actual outcomes could vary significantly from these estimates.
The estimates used in these financial statements are contained in Note 14.
Valuation of intangible assets and useful life The Group has made assumptions in relation to the potential future cash flows to be determined from separable intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations.
This assessment involves assumptions relating to potential future revenues, appropriate discount rates and the useful life of such assets.
These assumptions impact the income statement over the useful life of the intangible asset.
Provisions The Group and its subsidiaries are party to various legal claims.
Provisions made within these financial statements are contained in Note 24 a.
Additional claims could be made which might not be covered by existing provisions or by insurance as detailed in Note 28.
Critical judgements in applying the entitys accounting policies The application of the Groups accounting policies may require management to make judgements, apart from those involving estimates, that can affect the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
Such judgements include: Award of options and deferred shares to employees The Group applies judgement in deciding the proportion of the available bonus pool to be awarded to employees under its long-term share-based incentive scheme.
The Groups current policy is to deduct from the bonus pool an amount equal to the market value of the share price on the date of award.
Under IFRS, the value of award is spread over the vesting period and charged to the income statement.
The charge to the income statement is currently lower than the market value of shares to be awarded.
60 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 5.
Segment analysis Operating segments reflect internal management reporting to the Group's chief operating decision maker, defined as the Group Executive Board GEB.
The operating segments are determined based on differences in the nature of their services and geographical location as the Group is strongly affected by both factors.
The reportable operating segments derive their revenue primarily from property related services.
Refer to the Group overview on pages 2 and 3 and the Segmental reviews on pages 8 to 13 for further information on revenue sources.
Operations are based in four main geographical areas.
The UK is the home of the parent Company with segment operations throughout the region.
Asia Pacific segment operations are based in Hong Kong, Macau, China, Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Thailand, Singapore, Vietnam and Australia.
Europe segment operations are based in Germany, France, Spain, Netherlands, Belgium, Sweden, Italy, Ireland and Poland.
America segment operations are based in New York.
The sales location of the client is not materially different from the location where fees are received and where the segment assets are located.
Within the UK, commercial and residential activities are managed separately.
Other geographical areas, although largely commercial based, also provide residential services, in particular Hong Kong, China, Vietnam and Singapore.
The other segment includes costs and other expenses at both holding company and subsidiary levels, which are not directly attributable to the operating activities of the Groups business segments.
The GEB assesses the performance of operating segments based on a measure of underlying profit before tax which adjusts reported pre-tax profit by profit on disposals, share-based payments adjustment and impairment and amortisation of goodwill and intangibles excluding software.
Segmental assets and liabilities are not measured or reported to the GEB, but non-current assets are disclosed geographically below.
The segment information provided to the GEB for revenue and profits for the year ended 31 December 2010 is as follows: Property and Transactional Facilities Fund Financial Advice Consultancy Management Management Services Other Total 2010 m m m m m m m Revenue United Kingdom commercial 48.2 73.2 56.2 19.0 0.7 197.3 residential 86.8 24.3 16.2 8.7 136.0 Total United Kingdom 135.0 97.5 72.4 19.0 9.4 333.3 Continental Europe 30.2 10.4 20.3 60.9 Asia Pacific commercial 85.5 26.3 151.0 262.8 residential 16.9 16.9 Total Asia Pacific 102.4 26.3 151.0 279.7 America 3.1 3.1 Total revenue 270.7 134.2 243.7 19.0 9.4 677.0 Underlying profit loss before tax United Kingdom commercial 7.7 6.4 3.9 3.4 1.1 8.0 12.3 residential 13.3 2.7 1.9 0.8 2.0 15.1 Total United Kingdom 21.0 9.1 5.8 3.4 1.9 10.0 27.4 Continental Europe 4.3 0.1 1.8 6.2 Asia Pacific commercial 13.4 1.6 10.4 25.4 residential 4.3 4.3 Total Asia Pacific 17.7 1.6 10.4 29.7 America 3.6 3.6 Underlying profit loss before tax 30.8 10.6 14.4 3.4 1.9 10.0 47.3 Included within the Other UK residential segment is the Groups share of post tax losses of 2.0m 2009: nil from an associated company.
Management believes this amount cannot be reasonably allocated to an operating segment.
The associated company provides marketing and media services.
The losses primarily relate to the impairment of goodwill.
A reconciliation of underlying profit before tax to profit before tax is provided in Note 7.
Inter segmental revenue is not material.
61 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 5.
Segment analysis continued Property and Transactional Facilities Fund Financial Advice Consultancy Management Management Services Other Total 2009 m m m m m m m Revenue United Kingdom commercial 35.7 65.3 50.1 17.4 1.7 170.2 residential 71.3 22.8 14.5 9.5 118.1 Total United Kingdom 107.0 88.1 64.6 17.4 11.2 288.3 Continental Europe 28.3 8.8 23.0 60.1 Asia Pacific commercial 48.7 22.5 127.6 198.8 residential 11.2 11.2 Total Asia Pacific 59.9 22.5 127.6 210.0 America 2.3 2.3 Total revenue 197.5 119.4 215.2 17.4 11.2 560.7 Underlying profit loss before tax United Kingdom commercial 1.2 6.9 5.1 2.9 0.9 4.6 10.6 residential 11.8 2.3 2.0 2.0 14.1 Total United Kingdom 13.0 9.2 7.1 2.9 2.9 4.6 24.7 Continental Europe 9.6 0.3 2.7 12.6 Asia Pacific commercial 4.6 2.0 8.2 14.8 residential 2.2 2.2 Total Asia Pacific 6.8 2.0 8.2 17.0 America 3.9 3.9 Underlying profit loss before tax 6.3 10.9 12.6 2.9 2.9 4.6 25.2 Non-current assets by geography comprise: 2010 2009 m m Non-current assets United Kingdom 69.4 73.7 Continental Europe 46.2 51.6 Asia Pacific 63.9 50.9 America 17.9 17.6 Total non-current assets 197.4 193.8 Non-current assets include goodwill and intangible assets, plant, property and equipment, investments in joint ventures and associates and available-for-sale investments.
Deferred tax assets are not included.
62 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 6 a.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : Group 2010 2009 Other operating expenses include: m m Net foreign exchange losses gains 0.1 1.0 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.2 Operating lease rentals Hire of plant and machinery 2.2 1.5 Property 21.6 21.0 Other income dividend and investment income 0.3 0.2 Loss profit on disposals is made up as follows: Loss profit on disposals Available-for-sale investments 0.2 Associate 0.2 Subsidiary 0.1 0.1 6 b.
Income Statement of the Company As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the income statement and statement of comprehensive income of the Company is not presented as part of these accounts.
The Company has produced its own income statement and statement of comprehensive income for approval by its board.
The Company receives dividends from subsidiaries and charges subsidiaries for the provision of Group related services.
The profit after income tax of the Company for the year was 5.0m 2009: 3.1m.
6 c. Fees payable to the Companys auditor,  LLP, and its associates: Group 2010 2009 m m Audit services Fees payable to Companys auditor for the audit of parent Company and consolidated accounts 0.2 0.2 Other services Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.8 0.8 Tax services 0.3 0.6 1.3 1.6 7.
Underlying profit before tax 2010 2009 m m Reported profit before tax 36.8 13.5 Adjustments: Amortisation of intangibles excluding software Note 14 2.7 2.7 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Note 14 4.4 4.3 Share-based payment adjustment 3.3 4.7 Loss on disposal of subsidiary, associate and available-for-sale investments 0.1 Underlying profit before tax 47.3 25.2 The Directors regard the above adjustments necessary to give a fair picture of the underlying results of the Group for the year.
The adjustment for share-based payment relates to the impact of the accounting standard for share-based compensation.
The annual bonus is paid in a mixture of cash and deferred shares and the proportions can vary from one year to another.
Under IFRS the deferred share element is amortised to the income statement over the vesting period whilst the cash element is expensed in the year.
The adjustment above addresses this by adding to or deducting from profit the difference between the IFRS 2 charge and the effective value of the annual share award in order better to match the underlying staff costs in the year with the revenue recognised in the same period.
63 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 8 a.
Employee benefits expense Staff and Directors Group 2010 2009 m m Basic salaries and wages 258.1 227.2 Incentive bonuses and commissions 122.3 81.1 Wages and salaries 380.4 308.3 Social security costs 31.0 26.5 Other pension costs 14.9 12.6 Share-based payments 11.3 9.8 437.6 357.2 8 b.
Staff numbers The average number of employees including Directors during the year was: Group 2010 2009 United Kingdom 3,222 3,079 Continental Europe 692 731 Asia Pacific 17,640 16,104 America 34 34 21,588 19,948 The average number of UK employees including Directors during the year included 91 employed under fixed term and temporary contracts 2009: 60.
The average number of employees of the Company was 113 2009: 102 who are all located in the UK.
8 c. Key management compensation Group 2010 2009 m m Key management Remuneration and fees excluding bonuses 2.0 1.4 Bonuses 3.8 2.1 National Insurance 0.7 0.5 Share-based payments 1.4 0.4 7.9 4.4 The key management of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2010 comprised Savills plc Board Directors during the year and the Group Executive Board.
The key management of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2009 comprised Savills plc Board Directors and the Chairman and Chief Executive of Savills Commercial Limited.
Details of Directors remuneration is contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 39.
During the year five 2009: five Executives made gains totalling 1.1m on the exercise of options under the DSBP, ESOP, Sharesave and 2001 Option Schemes 2009: 0.5m.
The pension annuity for the highest paid Executive was 49,958 with no lump sum accrued 2009: 49,504 with no lump sum accrued.
Retirement benefits under the defined benefit scheme are accruing for three 2009: three Executives and benefits are accruing under a defined contribution scheme in Hong Kong for one 2009: one Executive.
64 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Pension scheme Defined contribution plans The Group operates the Savills UK Group Personal Pension Plan, a defined contribution scheme, a number of defined contribution individual pension plans and a Mandatory Provident Fund Scheme in Hong Kong, to which it contributes.
The total pension charges in respect of these plans were 14.0m 2009: 8.5m.
Defined benefit plan The Pension Plan of Savills the Plan provided final salary pension benefits to some employees, but was closed with regard to future servicebased benefit accrual with effect from 31 March 2010.
From 1 April 2010, pension benefits for former employees of the Plan are provided through the Groups defined contribution Personal Pension Plan.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group, and invested in managed funds units.
The contributions are determined by an independent qualified actuary on the basis of triennial valuations.
A full actuarial valuation is currently being carried out as at 31 March 2010 and has been updated to 31 December 2010 by a qualified independent actuary.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the valuation are those relating to the rate of return on investments pre-retirement, the rates of increase in salaries and the post-retirement investment return.
The draft valuation showed that the market value of the schemes assets was 109.6m and that the actuarial value of those assets represented 80% of the benefits that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in earnings.
The scheme has been closed to new joiners for pension benefits since 1 April 2000.
Group Principal assumptions at 31 December 2010 2009 Expected return on plan assets Equities 8.10% 8.30% Gilts 4.00% Bonds 5.20% 5.30% Property 7.10% 7.30% Diversified growth funds 7.80% 8.00% Other 0.50% 0.30% Expected rate of salary increases 4.50% 5.00% Rate of increase to pensions in payment accrued before 6 April 1997 3.00% 3.00% accrued after 5 April 1997 3.60% 3.60% accrued after 5 April 2005 2.40% 2.40% Rate of increase to pensions in deferment accrued before 6 April 2001 5.00% 5.00% accrued after 5 April 2001 2.90% 3.70% Discount rate 5.50% 5.60% Inflation assumption 3.60% 3.70% 65 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Pension scheme continued Using post-retirement mortality assumptions, the assured life expectations on retirement at age 60 2009: 60 are as follows: Group 2010 2009 Retiring today Male 88.1 87.1 Female 89.1 89.7 Retiring in 20 years Male 89.5 89.2 Female 90.8 91.7 Sensitivity analysis of the discount rate: Change in assumption Decrease by 0.5% p. a.
Impact on liabilities Increase by 12% 2009: increase by 12% The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: Group Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Fair value of plan assets 119.5 103.5 6.6 5.7 Present value of funded obligations 141.8 141.2 7.8 7.8 Deficit 22.3 37.7 1.2 2.1 Related deferred tax asset 6.1 10.7 0.3 0.6 Net liability 16.2 27.0 0.9 1.5 The amounts recognised in the income statement: Group 2010 2009 m m Current service cost 0.9 3.2 Interest cost 7.9 7.0 Expected return on plan assets 7.9 6.1 Total included in staff costs 0.9 4.1 All net actuarial gains or losses for each year are recognised in full in the year in which they are incurred in the statement of comprehensive income.
Change in defined benefit obligation: Group 2010 2009 m m Present value of defined benefit obligation at start of year 141.2 110.5 Current service cost 0.9 3.2 Interest cost 7.9 7.0 Plan participants contributions 0.3 1.1 Actuarial gain loss 7.2 20.7 Benefits paid 1.3 1.3 Present value of defined benefit obligation at end of year 141.8 141.2 66 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Pension scheme continued Change in plan assets: Group 2010 2009 m m Fair value of plan assets at start of year 103.5 85.9 Expected return on plan assets 7.9 6.1 Actuarial gain 3.3 7.9 Employer contributions 5.8 3.8 Plan participants contributions 0.3 1.1 Benefits paid 1.3 1.3 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 119.5 103.5 The actual return on plan assets was 11.2m 2009: 14.0m.
The overall expected return on assets is determined as the weighted average of the expected returns on each separate asset class shown below.
The expected return on plan assets is determined by the expected rate of return over the remaining life of the related liabilities held by the scheme.
The expected rate of return on equities is based on market expectations of dividend yields and price earnings ratios.
Expected returns on bonds are based on gross redemption yields as at the balance sheet date.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Group 2010 2009 m m Actuarial losses brought forward 37.6 24.8 Net actuarial gain loss for the year 10.5 12.8 Accumulated net actuarial losses 27.1 37.6 The major categories of assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2010 2009 Equities 51% 53% Gilts 4% Bonds 23% 23% Property 3% 3% Diversified Growth Funds 19% 20% Cash 1% Total 100% 100% No plan assets are the Groups own financial instruments or property occupied or used by the Group.
Amounts for the current and previous four years are as follows: 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m Plan assets 119.5 103.5 85.9 103.4 96.6 Defined benefit obligation 141.8 141.2 110.5 113.4 112.1 Deficit 22.3 37.7 24.6 10.0 15.5 Experience gain loss on plan liabilities 2% 2% 1% 5% 3% Experience gain loss on plan assets 3% 8% 35% 4% 3% The Group expects to contribute 6.0m to its pension plan in the period to 31 December 2011 2010 5.8m.
The Company expects to contribute 0.3m 2010 0.3m.
67 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 10.
Finance income and costs Group 2010 2009 m m Bank interest receivable 0.9 1.9 Fair value gain interest rate swaps 0.3 0.4 Finance income 1.2 2.3 Bank interest payable 2.2 2.3 Finance costs 2.2 2.3 Net finance costs 1.0 11.
Income tax expense Group 2010 2009 Analysis of tax expense for the year m m Current tax United Kingdom: Corporation tax at 28.0% 2009: 28.0% 10.1 7.6 Adjustment in respect of previous years 0.1 2.9 10.0 4.7 Foreign tax 6.7 3.5 Adjustment in respect of previous years 0.4 Total current tax 16.3 8.2 Deferred tax Representing: United Kingdom 4.1 4.4 Foreign tax 0.3 0.8 Adjustment in respect of previous years 0.2 1.3 Total deferred tax Note 17 4.6 3.9 Income tax expense 11.7 4.3 The tax charged credited to other comprehensive income is as follows: Group Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Current tax credit on employee benefits 2.6 1.4 Current tax credit on foreign exchange reserves 0.8 Current tax credit on retirement benefits 1.4 0.1 Deferred tax charge credit on pension actuarial gains losses 3.2 3.6 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax on pension additional contributions 1.4 0.1 Deferred tax charge on employee benefits 1.7 1.1 Deferred tax credit on revaluations of available-for-sale investments 0.1 0.2 Deferred tax credit on foreign exchange reserves 0.1 0.3 Tax on items relating to components of other comprehensive income 2.1 5.2 0.2 0.2 68 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 11.
Income tax expense continued The tax on the Groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to Group profits.
The tax for the year is higher 2009: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 28%.
The total tax charge on profit can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: Group 2010 2009 m m Profit before tax 36.8 13.5 Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28.0% 2009: 28.0% 10.3 3.8 Effects of: Adjustments to tax in respect of previous years 0.7 1.6 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 3.0 1.1 Impact of rising share price compared to the fair value of share awards options at date of grant 0.6 0.7 Income not subject to tax 0.2 Non-deductible tax losses 2.6 2.3 Expenses and other charges not deductible for tax purposes 3.1 1.8 Income tax expense on profit 11.7 4.3 The effective tax rate of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2010 is 31.8% 2009: 31.9%.
Dividends Group and Company 2010 2009 m m Amounts recognised as distribution to owners in the year: Second interim dividend for 2009 of 6p per share 7.3 Interim dividend of 3p per share 2009: 3p 3.7 3.7 Ordinary final dividend for 2008 of 3p per share 3.7 11.0 7.4 The Board recommends a final dividend of 6p net per ordinary share amounting to 7.4m is paid, alongside the supplemental interim dividend of 4p per ordinary share amounting to 4.9m, to be paid on 16 May 2011 to shareholders on the register at 8 April 2011.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
Under the terms of the Savills plc 1992 Employee Benefit Trust the EBT, the Trustee has waived all but 0.01p of any dividend on each share held by the Trust.
Savills QUEST Trustees Limited, the trustee of the Qualifying Employee Share Trust, waived all dividends on the shares it held.
69 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 13 a.
Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share are based on the profit attributable to owners of the company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding the shares held by the EBT, 9,613,393 shares 2009: 9,314,386 shares.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares, being the share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and where performance conditions have been met.
The earnings and the shares used in the calculations are as follows: 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 Earnings Shares EPS Earnings Shares EPS m million pence m million pence Basic earnings per share 25.0 122.2 20.5 8.9 122.7 7.3 Effect of additional shares issuable under option 4.2 0.7 5.8 0.4 Diluted earnings per share 25.0 126.4 19.8 8.9 128.5 6.9 13 b.
Underlying basic and diluted earnings per share Excludes profit loss on disposals, share-based payments adjustment and impairment and amortisation of goodwill and intangibles excluding software.
2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 Earnings Shares EPS Earnings Shares EPS m million pence m million pence Basic earnings per share 25.0 122.2 20.5 8.9 122.7 7.3 Amortisation of intangibles excluding software after tax 2.1 1.7 2.2 1.8 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets after tax 4.4 3.6 4.3 3.5 Share-based payment adjustment after tax 2.5 2.1 3.4 2.8 Loss profit on disposal of subsidiary, associate and available-for-sale investments after tax 0.1 1.1 0.9 Underlying basic earnings per share 34.1 122.2 27.9 17.7 122.7 14.5 Effect of additional shares issuable under option 4.2 0.9 5.8 0.7 Underlying diluted earnings per share 34.1 126.4 27.0 17.7 128.5 13.8 The Directors regard the above adjustments necessary to give a fair picture of the underlying results of the Group for the year.
The gross amounts of the above adjustments Note 7 are loss on disposal 0.1m 2009: nil, share-based payment adjustment 3.3m 2009: 4.7m, add back of amortisation of intangibles excluding software 2.7m 2009: 2.7m and impairment of goodwill and intangibles of 4.4m 2009: 4.3m.
70 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 14.
Goodwill and intangible assets Group Company Investment and Customer property business management Computer Goodwill relationships Brands contracts software Total Total Acquired goodwill and intangible assets m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 169.4 21.0 6.2 10.5 10.1 217.2 2.7 Acquisitions Note 16 e 7.6 1.3 8.9 Other additions 1.0 0.1 1.6 2.7 0.7 Disposals 2.0 0.6 2.6 Exchange movement 2.1 0.1 0.4 2.4 At 31 December 2010 178.1 22.3 6.1 10.6 11.5 228.6 3.4 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2010 41.1 8.0 6.2 5.0 8.0 68.3 1.6 Amortisation charge for the year 2.5 0.2 1.0 3.7 0.3 Impairment 4.3 0.1 4.4 Disposals 2.0 0.6 2.6 Exchange movement 0.4 0.3 0.1 0.3 0.9 At 31 December 2010 43.8 10.8 6.1 5.3 8.7 74.7 1.9 Net book value At 31 December 2010 134.3 11.5 5.3 2.8 153.9 1.5 All intangible amortisation charges in the year are disclosed on the face of the income statement.
The Companys intangible assets consist of computer software only.
Group Company Investment and Customer property business management Computer Goodwill relationships Brands contracts software Total Total Acquired goodwill and intangible assets m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2009 173.4 22.6 6.8 8.7 9.4 220.9 2.0 Acquisitions 4.4 1.9 6.3 Other additions 0.2 1.2 1.4 0.7 Disposals 0.2 0.2 Exchange movement 8.4 1.8 0.6 0.1 0.3 11.2 At 31 December 2009 169.4 21.0 6.2 10.5 10.1 217.2 2.7 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2009 39.9 7.0 6.8 4.5 7.5 65.7 1.3 Amortisation charge for the year 2.2 0.5 0.9 3.6 0.3 Impairment 4.3 4.3 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Exchange movement 3.1 1.2 0.6 0.3 5.2 At 31 December 2009 41.1 8.0 6.2 5.0 8.0 68.3 1.6 Net book value At 31 December 2009 128.3 13.0 5.5 2.1 148.9 1.1 At 1 January 2009 133.5 15.6 4.2 1.9 155.2 0.7 71 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 14.
Goodwill and intangible assets continued During the year, goodwill and intangibles were tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36.
Goodwill and intangibles are allocated to the Groups cash-generating units CGUs identified according to country of operation and business segment.
In most cases, the CGU is an individual subsidiary or operation and these have been separately assessed and tested.
A segment-level summary of the allocation is presented below: Property and Transactional Facilities Fund Advice Consultancy Management Management Total m m m m m United Kingdom 24.6 9.2 5.2 2.2 41.2 Continental Europe 33.6 1.4 9.2 44.2 Asia Pacific 11.8 4.5 31.8 48.1 America 17.6 17.6 Total goodwill and intangibles excluding software 87.6 15.1 46.2 2.2 151.1 Method of impairment testing All recoverable amounts were determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use discounted cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period.
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a terminal value.
Assumptions Market recovery In each case the models used assume that each of the property markets in which the Group operates begin to recover during 2011.
Discount rate The discount rate applied to cash flows of each CGU is based on the Groups Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC.
WACC is the average cost of sources of financing debt and equity, each of which is weighted by its respective use.
Key inputs to the WACC calculation are the risk free rate, the equity market risk premium the return that Savills shares provide over the risk free rate, beta reflecting the risk of the Group relative to the market as a whole and the Groups borrowing rates.
Group WACC was adjusted for risk relative to the country in which the assets were located.
The risk adjusted pre-tax discount range of rates used in each region for impairment testing are as follows: 2010 2009 Pre-tax discount rate range Pre-tax discount rate range United Kingdom 11.0% 11.6% Continental Europe 11.0 11.5% 11.6 12.1% Asia Pacific 8.5 22.0% 12.0 19.0% America 12.5% 12.5% Long-term growth rate To forecast beyond the five years covered by detailed forecasts, a terminal value was calculated, using an average long-term growth rate determined at 1.5%.
This reflects managements expectations based on historical growth and current market conditions and does not exceed the long-term growth rate in any country in which the Group operates.
Impairment charge Following impairment testing, a 4.4m charge has been recognised through the income statement 2009: 4.3m relating to goodwill and intangibles on historical acquisitions where carrying values are no longer supported by the discounted cash flow analysis.
The impairment charge relates to Theodor Schone Gmbh, a German residential property management business, purchased in July 2007.
The business has performed significantly below our expectations and its future prospects have been adversely affected in 2010 by management changes.
This business is included under the European property management segment.
Key assumptions include a pre-tax discount rate of 11.0%.
72 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 14.
Goodwill and intangible assets continued Sensitivity to changes in assumptions The level of impairment is a reflection of best estimates in arriving at value in use, future growth rates and the discount rate applied to cash flow projections.
Nonetheless, there are no CGUs which management consider a reasonable possible change in a key assumption would give rise to an impairment.
Future impairments may be impacted by the following factors: Market conditions the timing and growth expectations for further recovery are key assumptions in the determination of the cash flow projections.
For the purposes of the impairment tests, management expect the market to improve slightly over 2010 for the next year, but anticipate a bigger improvement from 2012 onward.
Cost base the cost base assumptions reflects 2010s costs with limited growth in the fixed cost base going forward.
Commissions and bonuses are correlated to the Groups revenue and profits and the percentage payout.
These are assumed to be consistent with existing rates.
Property, plant and equipment Equipment Equipment Short and motor and motor Freehold leasehold vehicles vehicles property property Owned Leased Total Group m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 0.4 19.7 47.4 67.5 Acquisitions Note 16 e 0.1 0.3 0.4 Additions 0.6 4.9 5.5 Transfers 0.3 0.3 Disposals 0.1 2.3 2.4 Exchange movement 0.1 1.0 1.1 At 31 December 2010 0.1 20.6 51.1 0.3 72.1 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2010 11.7 37.5 49.2 Charge for the year 2.0 4.5 0.1 6.6 Disposals 2.1 2.1 Exchange movement 0.7 0.7 At 31 December 2010 13.7 40.6 0.1 54.4 Net book value At 31 December 2010 0.1 6.9 10.5 0.2 17.7 The Directors consider that the fair value of plant, property and equipment approximates carrying value.
Equipment Equipment Short and motor and motor leasehold Freehold vehicles vehicles property property Owned Leased Total Group m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2009 0.4 20.7 48.2 69.3 Additions 0.8 2.4 3.2 Disposals 1.6 1.0 2.6 Exchange movement 0.2 2.2 2.4 At 31 December 2009 0.4 19.7 47.4 67.5 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2009 10.9 34.7 45.6 Charge for the year 1.9 5.1 7.0 Disposals 1.2 0.7 1.9 Exchange movement 0.1 1.6 1.5 At 31 December 2009 11.7 37.5 49.2 Net book value At 31 December 2009 0.4 8.0 9.9 18.3 At 1 January 2009 0.4 9.8 13.5 23.7 73 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Property, plant and equipment continued Short Equipment Freehold leasehold and motor property property vehicles Total Company m m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 0.1 0.8 7.9 8.8 Additions 0.9 0.9 At 31 December 2010 0.1 0.8 8.8 9.7 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2010 0.8 7.1 7.9 Charge for the year 0.5 0.5 At 31 December 2010 0.8 7.6 8.4 Net book value At 31 December 2010 0.1 1.2 1.3 Short Equipment Freehold leasehold and motor property property vehicles Total Company m m m m Cost At 1 January 2009 0.1 1.1 7.6 8.8 Additions 0.3 0.3 Disposals 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2009 0.1 0.8 7.9 8.8 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2009 1.0 6.9 7.9 Charge for the year 0.1 0.3 0.4 Disposals 0.3 0.1 0.4 At 31 December 2009 0.8 7.1 7.9 Net book value At 31 December 2009 0.1 0.8 0.9 At 1 January 2009 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.9 74 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 16 a.
Group Investments in joint ventures and associated undertakings Joint ventures Associated undertakings Investment Loans Total Investment Goodwill Total m m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2010 1.1 2.2 3.3 3.4 0.2 3.6 Additions 0.3 0.3 Loans advanced 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Loans repaid 0.5 0.5 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2010 1.4 1.9 3.3 3.8 0.2 4.0 Share of profit At 1 January 2010 1.7 1.7 4.0 4.0 Groups share of retained profit 1.0 1.0 0.2 0.2 Dividends received 0.3 0.3 2.7 2.7 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2010 2.5 2.5 1.8 1.8 Total At 31 December 2010 3.9 1.9 5.8 5.6 0.2 5.8 Joint ventures Associated undertakings Investment Loans Total Investment Goodwill Total m m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2009 1.1 2.5 3.6 2.3 0.2 2.5 Additions 0.1 0.1 0.6 0.6 Transfer from available-for-sale investments Note 16 b 0.6 0.6 Loans advanced 0.6 0.6 Loans repaid 0.7 0.7 Exchange movement 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2009 1.1 2.2 3.3 3.4 0.2 3.6 Share of profit At 1 January 2009 1.4 1.4 3.4 3.4 Groups share of retained profit 1.0 1.0 1.6 1.6 Disposal 0.2 0.2 Dividends received 0.5 0.5 0.7 0.7 Exchange movement 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2009 1.7 1.7 4.0 4.0 Total At 31 December 2009 2.8 2.2 5.0 7.4 0.2 7.6 75 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 16 a.
Group Investments in joint ventures and associated undertakings continued In relation to the Groups interests in joint ventures, the assets, liabilities, income and expenses are shown below: 2010 2009 m m Current assets 7.2 5.4 Non-current assets 3.8 3.9 Current liabilities 6.5 5.9 Non-current liabilities 0.6 0.6 Net assets 3.9 2.8 Revenue 12.3 10.3 Expenses 11.0 8.8 Share of income tax 0.3 0.5 Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 1.0 1.0 In relation to the Groups associated undertakings, the assets, liabilities, income and expenses are shown below: 2010 2009 m m Current assets 9.5 9.0 Non-current assets 5.2 5.9 Current liabilities 8.5 6.7 Non-current liabilities 0.6 0.8 Net assets 5.6 7.4 Revenue 31.9 22.4 Expenses 31.2 20.1 Share of income tax 0.5 0.7 Share of post-tax profit from associates 0.2 1.6 The joint ventures and associates have no significant liabilities to which the Group is exposed to, nor has the Group any significant contingent liabilities or capital commitments in relation to its interests in the joint ventures and associates.
The market value of the Groups holding in Adventis Group plc, an associate company, was 1.0m at 31 December 2010 2009: 2.8m.
The carrying value of this investment is 2.2m 2009: 4.3m.
16 b. Available-for-sale investments Group Group 2010 2009 m m At 1 January 14.0 16.2 Additions 0.9 0.3 Transfer to investment in associate Note 16 a 0.6 Net fair value loss transferred to other comprehensive income 0.3 0.8 Disposals 0.2 Impairment 0.3 Exchange movement 0.1 0.9 At 31 December 14.2 14.0 Available-for-sale investments comprise the following: Unlisted securities UK equity securities 1.5 UK limited partnership 0.1 0.1 UK investment funds 2.5 2.5 European investment funds 11.2 9.7 Asia Pacific equity securities 0.4 0.2 14.2 14.0 76 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 16 b. Available-for-sale investments continued Available-for-sale investments are denominated in the following currencies: Group Group 2010 2009 m m Sterling 2.6 4.1 Euro 11.2 9.7 Other 0.4 0.2 14.2 14.0 At 31 December 2010, the Group held the following principal available-for-sale investments: Investment Holding Principal activity Cordea Savills Dawn Syndication entity registered in England and Wales 3.5% Investment property fund Cordea Savills Student Hall Fund entity registered in Jersey 2.0% Student accommodation property fund Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 1 entity registered in Luxembourg 2.8% Investment property fund Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 2 entity registered in Luxembourg 1.3% Investment property fund Serviced Land No.
2 entity registered in England and Wales 1.9% UK land investment fund Cordea Savills German Retail Fund entity registered in Luxembourg 1.9% Retail investment property fund Cordea Savills Nordic Retail Fund entity registered in Luxembourg 11.3% Retail investment property fund Cordea Savills UK Property Ventures No.
1 registered in England and Wales 4.1% UK land investment fund This holding relates to Class C ordinary shares.
The Group also holds 100% of Class A1 preference shares and 4.0% of Class B preference shares in this fund.
The Group does not exert significant influence over these businesses, and therefore does not equity account for these investments.
These shareholdings are treated as trade investments and held at fair value.
The fair value of unlisted securities is based on underlying asset values and price earnings models.
The fair value of investment funds is determined by the Fund Managers annual audited financial statements.
At 31 December 2010 the Group held a conditional commitment to co-invest 0.7m 2009: 0.8m in the Cordea Savills UK Property Ventures Fund No.
1, 1.0m 2009: 1.3m in the Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 2 and 0.4m 2009: nil in the Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 1.
The Company made no available-for-sale investments during the year 2009: 0.2m.
16 c. Company Investments in subsidiaries Shares Loans to in Group Group undertakings undertakings Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2009 22.4 117.0 139.4 Additions 2.1 2.1 Repayments 5.4 5.4 Exchange movement 2.2 2.2 At 31 December 2009 22.4 111.5 133.9 Repayments 8.2 8.2 Exchange movement 0.9 0.9 At 31 December 2010 22.4 104.2 126.6 77 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 16 d. Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings The principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings of the Group which, in the Directors opinion principally affect the figures shown in the financial statements, are shown below together with details of their main activities.
Except where otherwise noted, they are whollyowned, have share capital wholly comprised of ordinary shares, are registered in England and Wales, operate in the UK and are consolidated into the Group accounts.
Holding interests are the same as voting interests.
A full list of the Groups subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings is available from the registered office of Savills plc.
Subsidiary undertakings Holding Main activities Cordea Savills LLP 100% Provision of fund management Savills Commercial Limited 100% Commercial surveyors Savills L&P Limited 100% General practice surveyors Prime Purchase Limited 100% Property buying company Cordea Savills Investment Management Limited 100% Asset manager Provision of general insurance, mortgage broking and Savills Private Finance Limited 100% personal financial planning services regulated by FSA Savills LLC registered in the US 75% Property consultants Savills Commercial Ireland Limited registered in Ireland 100% Property consultants Savills Residential Ireland Limited registered in Ireland 100% Property consultants Savills Consultores Inmobiliarios SA registered in Spain 100% Property consultants Savills Immobilien Beratungs GmbH registered in Germany 100% Property consultants Savills SA registered in France 99.97% Property consultants Savills Italy SRL registered in Italy 90.50% Property consultants Savills Nederland Holding BV registered in the Netherlands 87% Property consultants Savills Sweden AB registered in Sweden 98.40% Property consultants Savills Spolka z Organiczona registered in Poland 100% Property consultants Savills Hong Kong Limited registered in Hong Kong 100% Mixed practice agency, valuation and research Savills Valuation and Professional Services Limited registered in Hong Kong 100% Valuation and research Savills Property Management Limited registered in Hong Kong 100% Property management Guardian Property Management Limited registered in Hong Kong 100% Property management Savills Singapore Pte Limited registered in Singapore 100% Property management and agency Savills Japan KK registered in Japan 100% Property management and agency Savills Property Services Shanghai Co Limited registered in China 100% Property management Savills Property Services Beijing Co Limited registered in China 100% Property management Savills Korea Asset Management Limited registered in Korea 100% Property management Savills Korea Co. Limited registered in Korea 100% Property agency and consultants Savills Vietnam Limited registered in BVI 69.10% Property management and agency Savills Thailand Limited registered in Thailand 100% Property agency, consultants and management Savills Taiwan Limited registered in Taiwan 100% Property agency and consultants Savills Aust Pty Limited registered in Australia 96.19% Property agency, consultants and management Joint ventures GES Holdings Limited Macau 50% Property management Associated undertakings Hutton Asia Pte Ltd Singapore 48% Property agency Adventis Group plc 30.16% Provision of marketing and media services Shares interests held indirectly by the Company.
78 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 16 e. Acquisitions of subsidiaries On 29 March 2010, the Group acquired 100% of the voting share capital in Incoll Group Pty Limited, an Australian Project Management business.
Cash consideration of 9.0m was paid.
Goodwill on acquisition of 7.6m has been determined, and is attributable to Incolls strong position in the market.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Other intangible assets of 1.3m have been identified and relate to project management contracts.
Incoll has been merged with Savills Australias established specialist project management business to create a stronger business, with the aim of expanding it further across the Savills Asia Pacific network.
Provisional fair value to Group Total Subsidiaries acquired m Property, plant and equipment Note 15 0.4 Deferred tax asset 0.2 Current assets: Trade and other receivables 3.4 Cash and cash equivalents 0.7 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 3.6 Current tax liabilities 0.2 Borrowings Note 31 0.4 Employee and retirement benefit obligations Note 24 b 0.2 Non-current borrowings Note 31 0.1 Non-current employee and retirement obligations Note 24 b 0.1 Net assets 0.1 Non-controlling share of net assets Other intangibles Note 14 1.3 Fair value of net assets acquired 1.4 Goodwill Note 14 7.6 Purchase consideration 9.0 Consideration satisfied by: Cash paid 9.0 Cash acquired 0.7 8.3 For the acquisition, there was no difference between the fair value and carrying value of net assets acquired, except for intangible assets.
The Group acquires businesses intended for use on a continuing basis.
Goodwill is attributable to anticipated future operating synergies from the combination with existing businesses and perceived future economic benefits that will be generated from the staff client relationships acquired.
There were no significant changes to the provisional goodwill that arose in the previous year on acquisitions.
IFRS 3 revised has been applied to this acquisition which was accounted for using the acquisition method.
Acquisition related costs of 0.2m are included in the income statement.
These would have previously been included in the consideration for the acquisition.
Included in Group operating profit relating to acquisitions is revenue of 12.2m 2009: 0.6m, staff costs of 8.0m 2009: 0.6m, depreciation of 0.2m 2009: nil, amortisation of nil 2009: nil and other operating charges of 3.0m 2009: 0.3m.
If the date for all acquisitions made during the year had been at the beginning of the year, amounts relating to these acquisitions would have been revenue of 17.7m 2009: 1.0m, staff costs of 10.3m 2009: 0.9m, depreciation of 0.4m 2009: nil, amortisation of nil 2009: nil and other operating charges of 5.9m 2009: 0.5m.
79 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 16 f. Transactions with non-controlling interests During the year, the Group had the following transactions with non-controlling interests: Total holding at 31 December Name Date Holding acquired 2010 Savills Sweden AB January 2010 47.4% 98.4% Cordea Savills LLP March 2010 40.0% 100.0% Under IAS 27 revised, transactions with non-controlling interests must be accounted for as equity transactions, therefore no goodwill has been recognised.
Acquisition costs of 0.7m have also been recognised in equity.
In January 2010, the Group acquired 47.4% of shares in Savills Sweden AB for cash consideration of 0.9m.
This takes the Groups shareholding to 98.4%.
The carrying amount of Savills Sweden ABs net assets on the date of acquisition was 0.3m.
The Group recognised a decrease in non-controlling interests of 0.1m.
The amount charged to equity in respect of this transaction was 0.8m.
In March 2010, the Group acquired 40% of the voting rights in Cordea Savills LLP that it did not already own.
Total consideration is up to 16.1m of which 5.3m cash consideration was paid with another 4.5m payable in equal instalments on the first and second anniversaries, and up to a further 6.3m on the second anniversary subject to earnings performance.
The carrying amount of Cordea Savills LLPs net assets on the date of acquisition was 1.7m.
The Group recognised a decrease in non-controlling interests of 0.7m.
The total amount charged to equity in respect of this transaction was 12.0m.
In August 2010, the Group disposed of 10% of Savills Singapore PTE following the exercise of an option granted to a former executive in 2004.
In December 2010 this stake was re-acquired by the Group.
The purchase consideration was 0.1m and 2.1m respectively.
Any excess of purchase consideration over the net assets acquired has been charged to equity.
The Group recognised a net decrease in non-controlling interests of 0.2m.
The total amount charged to equity in respect of these transactions was 1.8m.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there are legally enforceable rights to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax relates to the same fiscal authority.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when realised through current tax.
The deferred income tax assets and liabilities at 31 December, without taking into consideration the offsetting balances within the same jurisdiction, are as follows: Group Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Deferred tax assets Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months 18.4 25.0 1.1 1.2 Deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months 7.1 2.4 0.5 0.5 25.5 27.4 1.6 1.7 Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liability to be recovered after more than 12 months 2.4 3.0 Deferred tax liability to be recovered within 12 months 0.4 0.6 2.8 3.6 Deferred tax asset net 22.7 23.8 1.6 1.7 80 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 17.
Deferred income tax continued The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: Group Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m At 1 January asset 23.8 16.9 1.7 1.6 Amount credited to income statement Note 11 4.6 3.9 0.2 0.1 Tax charged to other comprehensive income Pension asset on actuarial gain loss 3.2 3.6 0.2 0.2 Pension asset on additional contributions 1.4 0.1 Employee benefits 1.7 1.1 Revaluations of available-for-sale investments 0.1 0.2 Movement on foreign exchange reserves 0.1 0.3 Exchange movement 0.2 Acquisitions Note 16 e 0.2 At 31 December asset 22.7 23.8 1.6 1.7 Deferred income tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through the future taxable profits is probable.
As at the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of 18.6m 2009: 14.8m available for offset against future profits.
Deferred tax of 5.7m 2009: 4.1m has not been recognised on such losses due to the unpredictability of future income streams.
Included within unrecognised losses are losses of 0.7m that expire within three years, 1.2m that expire within three to five years and the remaining 16.7m being available for offset indefinitely.
Accelerated Other capital including Retirement Employee allowances provisions Tax losses benefits benefits Total Deferred tax assets Group m m m m m m At 1 January 2009 0.9 5.7 4.7 7.0 4.1 22.4 Amount charged credited to income statement Note 11 0.7 0.2 0.1 3.4 2.6 Tax credited charged to other comprehensive income Note 11 3.6 1.1 2.5 Exchange movement 0.1 0.2 0.1 At 31 December 2009 0.9 5.1 4.3 10.7 6.4 27.4 Amount credited charged to income statement Note 11 0.1 0.8 0.2 3.3 4.0 Tax charged credited to other comprehensive income Note 11 4.6 1.7 6.3 Acquisitions Note 16 e 0.2 0.2 Exchange movement 0.3 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2010 1.0 6.4 4.0 6.1 8.0 25.5 81 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 17.
Deferred income tax continued Other including Accelerated provisions and capital foreign exchange Unremitted Intangible allowances reserves profits Revaluations assets Total Deferred tax liabilities Group m m m m m m At 1 January 2009 0.3 1.1 0.4 0.4 3.3 5.5 Amount credited to income statement Note 11 0.3 0.1 0.4 0.5 1.3 Tax credited to other comprehensive income Note 11 0.3 0.2 0.5 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2009 0.7 0.2 2.7 3.6 Amount credited to income statement Note 11 0.6 0.6 Tax credited to other comprehensive income Note 11 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2010 0.6 0.1 2.1 2.8 Net deferred tax asset At 31 December 2010 22.7 At 31 December 2009 23.8 A number of changes to the UK Corporation tax system were announced in the June 2010 Budget Statement.
The Finance No 2 Act 2010, which was substantively enacted on 20 July 2010, includes legislation reducing the main rate of corporation tax from 28% to 27% from 1 April 2011.
Further reductions to the main rate are proposed to reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 24% by 1 April 2014 but these later reductions had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, are not included in these financial statements.
The proposed reductions of the main rate of corporation tax by 1% per year to 24% by 1 April 2014 are expected to be enacted separately each year.
The overall effect of the further changes from 27% to 24%, if these applied to the deferred tax balance at 31 December 2010, would be to reduce the net deferred tax asset by approximately 0.8m being 0.3m recognised in 2011, 0.3m recognised in 2012 and 0.2m recognised in 2013.
Accelerated Other capital including Retirement Employee allowances provisions benefits benefits Total Deferred tax assets Company m m m m m At 1 January 2009 0.5 0.6 0.4 0.1 1.6 Amount charged credited to income statement 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Tax charged to other comprehensive income Note 11 0.2 0.2 As at 31 December 2009 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.2 1.7 Amount charged credited to income statement 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Tax credited to other comprehensive income Note 11 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2010 0.3 0.6 0.3 0.4 1.6 Net deferred tax asset At 31 December 2010 1.6 At 31 December 2009 1.7 82 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 18.
Trade and other receivables Group Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Trade receivables 147.0 116.5 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 9.1 9.4 Trade receivables net 137.9 107.1 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 12.4 10.5 Other receivables 15.1 11.7 1.4 Prepayments and accrued income 26.2 24.7 0.7 0.8 179.2 143.5 14.5 11.3 The carrying value of trade and other receivables is approximate to fair value.
There is no other concentration of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables as the Group has a large number of clients internationally dispersed with no individual client owing a significant amount.
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings to the Company are generally charged interest at 1.5% 2009: 1.5% above the base rate.
Inter-company trade receivables are generally cleared within the month.
As at 31 December 2010, trade receivables of 9.1m 2009: 9.4m were impaired and provided for.
The individually impaired receivables mainly relate to receivables from clients that have been affected by the uncertain economic conditions where funding and completion have been delayed and cash flow has become uncertain.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: Group 2010 2009 m m Up to 3 months 0.9 1.1 3 to 6 months 1.6 1.6 Over 6 months 6.6 6.7 9.1 9.4 As at 31 December 2010, trade receivables of 40.6m 2009: 38.6m were past due but not impaired.
These relate to trade receivables which are past due at the reporting date but are not considered impaired as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: Group 2010 2009 m m Up to 3 months 31.0 35.1 3 to 6 months 5.8 1.3 Over 6 months 3.8 2.2 40.6 38.6 83 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 18.
Trade and other receivables continued The carrying amounts of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: Group 2010 2009 m m Sterling 89.1 65.6 Euro 21.3 22.9 Hong Kong dollar 27.5 21.1 Australian dollar 16.7 11.4 Other 24.6 22.5 179.2 143.5 Other currencies include Chinese renminbi, Singapore dollar, Polish zloty and Swedish krona.
Movement on the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: Group 2010 2009 m m At 1 January 9.4 10.0 Provisions for receivables impairment 2.4 2.8 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 2.4 2.9 Unused provisions released 0.5 Exchange movements 0.2 0.5 At 31 December 9.1 9.4 The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables have been included in other operating expenses in the income statement.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Cash and cash equivalents Group Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 91.7 50.8 19.2 Short-term bank deposits 5.5 30.8 97.2 81.6 19.2 The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits as at 31 December 2010 was 0.87% 2009: 0.62% : these deposits have an average maturity of 25 days 2009: 5 days.
Cash subject to restrictions in Asia Pacific amounts to 17.4m 2009: 16.7m which is cash pledged to banks in relation to property management contracts and cash remittance restrictions in certain countries.
84 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 19.
Cash and cash equivalents continued Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts include the following for the purposes of the cash flow statement: Group Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 97.2 81.6 19.2 Bank overdrafts Note 22 0.7 0.7 6.3 96.5 80.9 6.3 19.2 Cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies: Sterling 36.9 29.8 21.0 Euro 4.1 6.4 1.8 Hong Kong dollar 27.3 22.9 Singapore dollar 2.3 4.8 Australian dollar 6.1 3.6 Chinese renminbi 11.1 9.1 South Korean wan 1.3 1.9 US dollar 3.5 0.5 Other currencies 4.6 2.6 97.2 81.6 19.2 The Companys Sterling and Euro accounts are managed within a Group pooling banking arrangement.
As at 31 December 2010, no net overdrafts existed within either pool 2009 - nil.
Other currencies include Taiwan dollar, Macau pataca, Thai baht, Japanese yen, Polish zloty and Swedish krona.
Trade and other payables current Group Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Deferred consideration 3.2 4.2 Trade payables 35.6 32.4 4.8 3.2 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 1.5 3.4 Other taxation and social security 24.3 22.6 4.3 Other payables 7.9 3.0 0.4 Accruals and deferred income 138.9 102.8 5.7 3.8 209.9 165.0 12.4 14.7 21.
Trade and other payables non-current Group Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Deferred consideration 16.6 11.0 Other payables 0.2 0.1 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 5.3 13.7 16.8 11.1 5.3 13.7 85 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 22.
Borrowings Group Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Current Bank overdrafts 0.7 0.7 6.3 Unsecured bank loans due within one year or on demand 5.1 4.9 Loan notes 0.4 0.7 Finance leases 0.1 6.3 6.3 6.3 Non-current Unsecured bank loans 3.9 8.7 Loan notes 0.3 Finance leases 0.1 4.0 9.0 The Companys Sterling and Euro accounts are managed within a Group pooling banking arrangement.
As at 31 December 2010, no net overdrafts existed within either pool 2009: nil.
In 2007, the Group borrowed 19.8m for the acquisition of Granite Partners LLC in the US now Savills LLC.
The borrowings are denominated in US dollars.
Interest is fixed at 5.315% via an interest rate swap until maturity date.
At 31 December 2010, at the year end exchange rate, 9.0m was outstanding 2009: 13.6m.
USD8m is due within one year.
In 2006, 0.6m of the Variable Interest Rate Guaranteed Loan Notes 2006 were issued as part consideration for the acquisition of the business and assets of PCA Management Consultants Limited.
As at 31 December 2010, 0.4m 2009: 0.5m were still in issue and due within one year.
Interest is payable half yearly.
Bank loans are denominated in a number of currencies and bear interest at LIBOR or foreign equivalents as appropriate to the country in which the borrowing is incurred.
The exposure of the Groups borrowings to interest rate changes and the contractual repricing dates at the balance sheet date are: Group Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Less than 1 year 1.2 1.4 6.3 Between 1 and 2 years 9.0 0.3 Between 2 and 5 years 0.1 13.6 10.3 15.3 6.3 Group Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 The maturity of non-current borrowings is as follows: m m m m Between 1 and 2 years 4.0 5.3 Between 2 and 5 years 3.7 4.0 9.0 The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows: Group 2010 2009 m m Bank overdraft 2.82% 3.96% Bank loans 5.32% 5.32% Loan notes 5.00% 3.51% Finance leases 10.26% The carrying amounts of borrowings approximate to fair value.
86 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 22.
Borrowings continued The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: Group Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Sterling 0.4 1.0 6.3 US dollar 9.0 13.6 Euro 0.6 0.6 Australian dollar 0.2 Hong Kong dollar 0.1 Thai baht 0.1 10.3 15.3 6.3 The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities: Floating rate expiring within 1 year or on demand 15.6 20.2 6.3 Floating rate expiring between 1 and 5 years 50.0 60.0 In September 2010 the 60m multi-currency revolving credit facility was reduced to 50m, by means of a voluntary partial cancellation by Savills as it was surplus to forecast requirements.
As at 31 December 2010 this facility was undrawn.
This facility was cancelled on 10 March 2011 and replaced with a new 50m multi-currency revolving credit facility, which expires on 31 March 2014.
Derivative financial instruments Group Company Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 2010 m m m m Interest rate swaps at fair value 0.4 Forward foreign exchange contracts at fair value 0.1 Total 0.5 Less non-current portion 0.4 Current portion 0.1 Group Company Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 2009 m m m m Interest rate swaps at fair value 0.7 Forward foreign exchange contracts at fair value 0.1 Total 0.1 0.7 Less non-current portion 0.7 Current portion 0.1 Interest rate swaps The notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts in relation to the US borrowing at 31 December 2010 were 9.0m 2009: 13.6m.
At 31 December 2010, the fixed interest rate was 5.315%.
The floating rate is USD LIBOR.
Gains and losses on interest rate swaps are recognised in the income statement.
Forward foreign exchange contracts The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2010 were 14.9m 2009: 14.2m.
The non-current portion represents contracts that mature in over one year.
Gains and losses on forward foreign exchange contracts are recognised in the income statement.
Hedge of net investments in foreign operations The Groups USD borrowing amounting to USD14m 2009: USD22.0m is designated as a hedge on the net investment in the Groups US subsidiary.
The fair value of the USD borrowing at 31 December 2010 was 9.0m 2009: 13.6m.
The foreign exchange loss of 0.5m 2009: gain of 2.1m on translation of the borrowing to currency at the balance sheet date is recognised in foreign exchange reserves in other comprehensive income.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative assets on the balance sheet.
87 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 24 a.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Professional indemnity Dilapidation Onerous Group claims provisions leases Total Company m m m m m At 1 January 2010 7.2 1.2 1.2 9.6 1.5 Released during the year 1.4 1.4 Provided during the year 6.9 0.8 1.1 8.8 Utilised during the year 0.8 0.1 0.7 1.6 0.1 Exchange movements 0.2 0.2 Total 12.1 1.9 1.6 15.6 1.4 Less non-current portion 5.6 1.4 0.8 7.8 1.2 Current portion 6.5 0.5 0.8 7.8 0.2 Professional indemnity Dilapidation Onerous Group claims provisions leases Total Company 2009 m m m m m Current 4.2 0.3 0.7 5.2 0.3 Non-current 3.0 0.9 0.5 4.4 1.2 Total 7.2 1.2 1.2 9.6 1.5 24 b.
Employee benefit obligations In addition to the defined benefit obligation pension scheme disclosed in Note 9, the following are included in employee benefit obligations: Total Group m At 1 January 2010 8.0 Acquisitions Note 16 e 0.3 Provided during the year 5.0 Utilised during the year 2.8 Exchange movements 0.9 At 31 December 2010 11.4 The above provisions relate to holiday pay and long service leave in Asia Pacific and Europe and are expected to crystallise within five to seven years of the balance sheet date.
Bonuses are included within accruals Note 20.
The Company had no employee benefit obligations at 31 December 2010 or 31 December 2009.
The above employee benefit obligations have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: Group 2010 2009 m m Current 4.7 3.1 Non-current 6.7 4.9 11.4 8.0 88 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 25.
Share capital Group and Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 Authorised and allotted Number of shares Number of shares m m Ordinary shares of 2.5p each: Authorised 202,000,000 202,000,000 5.1 5.1 Allotted, called up and fully paid 132,152,375 131,841,846 3.3 3.3 Movement in allotted, called up and fully paid share capital 2010 2009 Number of shares m Number of shares m At 1 January 131,841,846 3.3 131,840,933 3.3 Allotted to direct participants on exercise of options under the Savills Sharesave Scheme 310,529 913 At 31 December 132,152,375 3.3 131,841,846 3.3 At the Annual General Meeting held on 5 May 2010, the shareholders gave the Company authority, subject to stated conditions, to purchase for cancellation up to 13,184,184 of its own ordinary shares AGM held on 6 May 2009: 13,184,093.
Such authority remains valid until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or 1 July 2011 whichever is the earlier.
Share-based payment Details of the terms of the following schemes are contained in the Remuneration report on pages 35 to 36.
26 a. Savills Executive Share Option Scheme 2001 The following share options have been granted under the Savills Executive Share Option Scheme 2001 and were outstanding at 31 December 2010: 2010 2009 Number of Number of shares shares Date of grant Exercise period Exercise price 000 000 30 March 2004 7 years from 30 March 2007 Unapproved 217.8p 46 46 14 March 2005 7 years from 14 March 2008 Approved 321.3p 37 37 14 March 2005 7 years from 14 March 2008 Unapproved 321.3p 91 91 16 April 2008 7 years from 16 April 2011 Unapproved 300.1p 160 160 17 April 2009 7 years from 17 April 2012 Approved 288.8p 21 21 17 April 2009 7 years from 17 April 2012 Unapproved 288.8p 530 530 19 April 2010 7 years from 19 April 2013 Unapproved 341.0p 422 1,307 885 A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2010 is shown below: 2010 2009 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average shares exercise shares exercise 000 price 000 price Outstanding at 1 January 885 291.8p 471 360.7p Granted 422 341.0p 551 288.8p Forfeited 137 516.6p Outstanding at 31 December 1,307 307.7p 885 291.8p Exercisable at 31 December 174 293.9p 174 293.9p The weighted average share price on the date of exercise during the year was nil 2009: nil and total consideration of nil 2009: nil was received.
89 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 26 b. Savills Sharesave Scheme During the year 310,529 shares 2009: 913 shares were allotted direct to participants on the exercise of options under the Savills Sharesave Scheme, for consideration of 986,853.
The following table shows the options remaining outstanding as at 31 December 2010: 2010 2009 Number of Number of shares shares Date of grant Exercise price Exercise period 000 000 5 May 2006 510.5p 01.07.09 01.01.10 194 31 October 2007 318.0p 01.12.10 01.06.11 467 814 29 October 2009 267.0p 01.12.12 01.06.13 1,096 1,210 1,563 2,218 A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2010 is shown below: 2010 2009 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average shares exercise shares exercise 000 price 000 price Outstanding at 1 January 2,218 307.0p 1,253 352.9p Granted 1,210 267.0p Forfeited expired 344 409.8p 244 343.8p Exercised 311 317.8p 1 318.0p Outstanding at 31 December 1,563 282.2p 2,218 307.0p Exercisable at 31 December 467 318.0p 194 510.5p The weighted average share price on the date of exercise during the year was 363.8p 2009: 334.8p.
26 c. Savills Deferred Share Bonus Plan The following awards of deferred shares, without exercise price, have been granted under the Savills Deferred Share Bonus Plan the DSBP and were outstanding at 31 December 2010: 2010 2009 Number of Number of shares shares Date of award Deferred period Vesting date 000 000 14 March 2005 5 years 14 March 2010 1,028 13 March 2006 5 years 13 March 2011 34 34 19 March 2007 3 years 19 March 2010 775 19 March 2007 5 years 19 March 2012 560 592 17 March 2008 3 years 17 March 2011 2,112 2,289 17 March 2008 5 years 17 March 2013 1,245 1,305 17 April 2009 3 years 17 April 2012 833 886 17 April 2009 5 years 17 April 2014 535 563 13 April 2010 3 years 13 April 2013 497 13 April 2010 5 years 13 April 2015 57 5,873 7,472 As at 31 December 2010, 423 2009: 439 individuals held outstanding awards under the DSBP.
Awards made under the DSBP from 2006 onwards are subject to rolled-up dividends whereby the number of shares awarded will be increased on the vesting date to reflect dividends paid to shareholders throughout the deferred period.
90 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 26 c. Savills Deferred Share Bonus Plan continued A reconciliation of award movements over the year to 31 December 2010 is shown below: 2010 2009 Weighted Weighted average average Number of share price Number of share price shares at date shares at date 000 of exercise 000 of exercise Outstanding at 1 January 7,472 7,893 Granted 574 1,498 Forfeited expired 201 303 Exercised 1,972 353.3p 1,616 288.6p Outstanding at 31 December 5,873 7,472 Exercisable at 31 December 10 8 The weighted average exercise price for awards granted under this scheme is nil 2009: nil.
Awards over 9,998 shares were exercisable under this scheme as at 31 December 2010 31 December 2009: 8,465.
26 d. Savills Deferred Share Plan The following awards of deferred shares, without exercise price, have been granted under the Savills Deferred Share Plan the DSP and remained outstanding at 31 December 2010: 2010 2009 Number of Number of shares shares Date of grant Deferred period Vesting date 000 000 10 October 2006 5 years 10 October 2011 9 366 19 March 2007 3 years 19 March 2010 383 19 March 2007 5 years 19 March 2012 37 37 17 September 2007 3 years 17 September 2010 170 17 September 2007 5 years 17 September 2012 12 12 17 March 2008 3 years 17 March 2011 664 693 17 March 2008 5 years 17 March 2013 30 37 23 September 2008 3 years 23 September 2011 124 138 7 October 2008 3 years 7 October 2011 42 17 April 2009 3 years 10 April 2012 615 615 10 September 2009 3 years 10 September 2012 14 17 10 September 2009 5 years 10 September 2014 23 23 13 April 2010 3 years 13 April 2013 1,337 13 April 2010 4 years 13 April 2014 348 13 April 2010 5 years 13 April 2015 1,557 8 September 2010 3 years 08 September 2013 394 5,164 2,533 As at 31 December 2010, 236 individuals 2009: 102 held outstanding awards under the DSP.
Awards made under the DSP are subject to rolled-up dividends whereby the number of shares awarded will be increased on the vesting date to reflect dividends paid to shareholders during the deferred period.
A reconciliation of award movements over the year to 31 December 2010 is shown below: 2010 2009 Weighted Weighted average average Number share price Number of share price of shares at date shares at date 000 of exercise 000 of exercise Outstanding at 1 January 2,533 2,099 Granted 3,674 655 Forfeited expired 71 2 Exercised 972 358.0p 219 351.7p Outstanding at 31 December 5,164 2,533 Exercisable at 31 December 5 The weighted average exercise price for awards granted under this scheme is nil 2009: nil.
Awards over 5,340 shares were exercisable under this scheme as at 31 December 2010 31 December 2009: nil.
91 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 26 d. Savills Deferred Share Plan continued Fair value of options Options and awards for the DSBP, Sharesave Scheme and ESOS were valued at fair value using the Actuarial Binominal model of actuaries Lane Clark & Peacock LLP.
The key assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: Risk free rate 2.1% p. a.
5.0% p. a. depending on grant date and expected life Volatility 28% p. a.
51% p. a. depending on grant date Employee turnover zero for ESOS Early exercise 50% of employees exercise early when options and awards are 20% in the money Performance criteria All vest after three years only relevant for ESOS The expected volatility is measured over the three or five years prior to the date of grant to match the vesting period of the award.
The risk free rate is the yield on a zero coupon UK Government bonds at each grant date, with term based on the expected life of the option or award.
After deferred tax, the charge was 8.6m 2009: 7.0m.
92 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 27.
Retained earnings and other reserves Sharebased Profit Total Capital Foreign payments Treasury and loss retained redemption exchange Revaluation Total other reserve shares account earnings reserve reserves reserves reserves Group m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2010 26.4 29.2 94.0 91.2 0.3 18.9 0.4 19.6 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 25.0 25.0 Other comprehensive income 8.2 8.2 4.8 0.2 4.6 Employee share option scheme: Value of services provided 11.3 11.3 Exercise of options 14.1 10.1 4.0 Lapse of options 0.2 0.2 Purchase of treasury shares 11.2 11.2 Dividends 11.0 11.0 Transactions with non-controlling interests 14.6 14.6 Balance at 31 December 2010 23.4 30.3 105.8 98.9 0.3 23.7 0.2 24.2 Balance at 1 January 2009 24.3 30.8 99.3 92.8 0.3 28.3 0.9 29.5 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 8.9 8.9 Other comprehensive income 8.1 8.1 9.4 0.5 9.9 Employee share option scheme: Value of services provided 9.8 9.8 Exercise of options 7.7 6.3 1.4 Purchase of treasury shares 4.7 4.7 Disposals net of tax 0.1 0.1 Dividends 7.4 7.4 Balance at 31 December 2009 26.4 29.2 94.0 91.2 0.3 18.9 0.4 19.6 Included within Profit and loss account is tax on items taken directly to equity Note 11 as disclosed above.
Contingent liabilities In common with comparable professional services businesses, the Group is involved in a number of disputes in the ordinary course of business.
Provision is made in the financial statements for all claims where costs are likely to be incurred and represents the cost of defending and concluding claims.
The Group carries professional indemnity insurance and no separate disclosure is made of the cost of claims covered by insurance as to do so could seriously prejudice the position of the Group.
93 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 29.
Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments Property leases Other leases Total 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Group m m m m m m Future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Within 1 year 21.5 18.4 2.3 2.0 23.8 20.4 Between 1 to 5 years 50.2 50.3 2.4 2.1 52.6 52.4 After 5 years 21.1 24.0 21.1 24.0 92.8 92.7 4.7 4.1 97.5 96.8 There are no operating lease commitments payable by the Company at 31 December 2010 2009: nil.
Significant operating leases relate to the various property leases for Savills offices in the United Kingdom, Europe and Asia Pacific.
There are no significant non-cancellable subleases.
Cash generated from operations Group Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Profit for the year 25.1 9.2 5.0 3.1 Adjustments for: Income tax Note 11 11.7 4.3 1.6 2.0 Depreciation Note 15 6.6 7.0 0.5 0.4 Amortisation of intangibles Note 14 3.7 3.6 0.3 0.3 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.2 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Note 14 4.4 4.3 Loss on disposal of subsidiary, associate and available-for-sale investments Note 6 a 0.1 Net finance expense income Note 10 1.0 1.0 2.0 Share of post-tax profit from associates and joint ventures Note 16 a 1.2 2.6 Decrease in employee and retirement obligations 3.6 4.6 0.3 0.2 Exchange movement on operating activities 0.1 2.7 0.9 3.8 Increase decrease in provisions 5.8 1.2 0.1 0.3 Charge for defined benefit pension scheme Note 9 0.9 4.1 0.1 0.2 Impairment of available-for-sale investments included within operating income 0.3 0.2 Charge for share-based compensation 11.3 9.8 0.6 0.3 Exercise of share options 10.1 6.3 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 66.2 39.2 7.3 2.7 Increase in work in progress 0.7 0.1 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 29.4 1.0 3.4 2.6 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 42.1 6.1 2.3 6.8 Cash generated from used in operations 78.2 46.2 13.0 1.5 94 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 31.
Analysis of cash net of debt Non-cash flow Exchange At 31 At 1 January movements Cash flows movement December 2010 m Acquisitions m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 81.6 13.9 1.7 97.2 Bank overdrafts 0.7 0.7 80.9 13.9 1.7 96.5 Bank loans 13.6 5.1 0.5 9.0 Loan notes 1.0 0.2 0.9 0.1 0.4 Finance Leases 0.3 0.1 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents net of debt 66.3 0.5 20.0 1.1 86.9 Non-cash flow Exchange At 31 At 1 January Acquisitions movements Cash flows movement December 2009 m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 75.3 13.2 6.9 81.6 Bank overdrafts 0.7 0.7 75.3 12.5 6.9 80.9 Bank loans 20.9 4.5 2.8 13.6 Loan notes 8.7 6.9 0.8 1.0 Cash and cash equivalents net of debt 45.7 23.9 3.3 66.3 32.
Related party transactions The Group is controlled by Savills plc, a company registered in England and Wales.
Marketing services were provided by Adventis Group plc, an associate company, to Savills L&P Limited on an arms-length basis to the value of 2.7m 2009: 2.6m.
Loans to related parties Loans to associates and joint ventures are disclosed in Note 16 a.
All loans to associates and joint ventures are non-interest bearing.
Company transactions The Company provided corporate function services to its subsidiaries at an arms-length value of 10.1m 2009: 9.5m.
Dividends received from subsidiaries were nil 2009: nil.
Amounts outstanding from subsidiaries as at 31 December 2010 are disclosed in Notes 18, 20 and 21.
95 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the financial statements continued 33.
Events after the balance sheet date Thomas Davidson On 31 January 2011 the Group acquired the business and undertaking of Thomas Davidson & Partners, a London based retail property consultancy business.
The business brings with it specialist expertise and knowledge in the retail sector and the acquisition will strengthen the existing Central London retail business.
Consideration of 2.5m was paid on completion, with a further 2.5m payable in equal instalments on the first, second and third anniversaries subject to service conditions.
Goodwill and other intangible assets of 1.7m and 0.8m respectively have been provisionally determined.
Sweden On 25 February 2011 the Group entered into an agreement to acquire 100% of the shares of Stadsmuren AB, a Stockholm based property and project management firm and 70% of the shares of Loudden AB, a Stockholm based facilities management firm, a related company of Stadsmuren.
The acquisition will provide a new service offering for the Group's Swedish clients and will add to its European property management network.
Total consideration of up to 5.5m 3.7m for Stadsmuren and 1.8m for Loudden will be paid of which 4.1m was paid on transaction close with a further 1.4m payable by February 2012 subject to earnings performance during 2011.
All consideration payments will be settled in cash out of existing resources, including debt facilities.
Goodwill and other intangible assets of 2.3m and 0.8m respectively have been provisionally determined with respect to Stadsmuren and 1.2m and 0.4m respectively with respect to Loudden.
Credit facility agreement The 50m multi-currency revolving credit facility was cancelled on 10 March 2011 and replaced with a new 50m multi-currency revolving credit facility, which expires on 31 March 2014.
