54 St Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report 2010 Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued for the year ended 30th November 2010 The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit section is determined using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement immediately if the benefits have vested.
The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents the change in present value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking into account material changes in the obligation during the year.
The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long-term market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
The difference between the expected return on plan assets and the interest cost is recognised in the income statement as other finance income or expense.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement of comprehensive income in the year in which they occur.
The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation, less any past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
When a pension asset net surplus arises and the directors consider it is controlled by the Company such that future economic benefits will be available to the Company, it is carried forward in accordance with the requirements of IFRIC14.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised in the income statement in the year in which they become payable.
Own shares St. Modwen Properties PLC shares held by the Group are classified in shareholders equity and are recognised at cost.
Dividends Dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised as liabilities at the balance sheet date.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes or duty.
The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Sale of property Revenue arising from the sale of property is recognised on legal completion of the sale.
Where revenue is earned for development of property assets not owned, this is recognised when the Group has substantially fulfilled its obligations in respect of the transaction.
Construction contracts Revenue arising from construction contracts is recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy on construction contracts see below.
Rental income Rental income arising from investment properties is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts over the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income Dividend income from joint ventures is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Construction contracts Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
The extent to which the contract is complete is determined by the total costs incurred to date as a percentage of the total anticipated costs for the entire contract.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included only to the extent they have been agreed with the purchaser.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of contract costs incurred where it is probable they will be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Government grants Government grants relating to property are treated as deferred income and released to profit or loss over the expected useful life of the assets concerned.
