56 St Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report 2010 Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued for the year ended 30th November 2010 Use of estimates and judgements continued Net realisable value of inventories The Group has ongoing procedures for assessing the carrying value of inventories and identifying where this is in excess of net realisable value.
Managements assessment of any resulting provision requirement, is where applicable, supported by independent information supplied by the external valuers.
The estimates and judgements used were based on information available at, and pertaining to, 30th November 2010.
Any subsequent adverse changes in market conditions may result in additional provisions being required.
Estimation of remediation and other costs to complete for both development and investment properties.
In making an assessment of these costs there is inherent uncertainty and the Group has developed systems of internal control to assess and review carrying values and the appropriateness of estimates made.
Any changes to these estimates may impact the carrying values of investment properties and or inventories.
The calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities together with assessment of the recoverability of future tax losses.
The recoverability of tax losses has been assessed and the accounts reflect the extent to which management believe recovery is likely against latent gains and future profits anticipated to be realised on the Groups property portfolio.
Calculation of the net present value of pension scheme liabilities In calculating this liability it is necessary for actuarial assumptions to be made, including discount and mortality rates and the long-term rate of return upon scheme assets.
The Group engages a qualified actuary to assist with determining the assumptions to be made and evaluating these liabilities.
Adoption of New and Revised Standards Standards affecting the financial statements In the current year the following new and revised standards and interpretations have been adopted and have affected the amounts reported on the disclosures in these financial statements.
IAS1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements IAS1 revised requires the production of a statement of comprehensive income setting out all items of income and expense relating to non-owner changes in equity.
There is a choice between presenting comprehensive income in one statement or in two statements comprising an income statement and a separate statement of comprehensive income.
The Group has elected to present comprehensive income in two statements.
In addition, IAS1 revised requires the statement of changes in shareholders equity to be presented as a primary statement.
The other revisions to IAS1 have not had a significant impact on the presentation of the Groups financial information.
IFRS8 Operating Segments IFRS8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker, which in the case of the Group is the Board, to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance and is effective in the EU for accounting periods beginning on or after 1st January 2009.
In contrast, the predecessor Standard IAS14 Segment Reporting required the Group to identify two sets of segments business and geographical, using a risk and rewards approach, with the Groups system of internal financial reporting to key management personnel serving only as the starting point for the identification of such segments.
The Groups operating segments, whilst unchanged, are reported in accordance with IFRS8.
IAS23 revised Borrowing Costs IAS23 revised requires the capitalisation of borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for use as part of the cost of the asset.
The amendment removes the option of immediately expensing borrowing costs subject to an exemption for inventories manufactured in large numbers on a repetitive basis.
The Group has evaluated its business processes and where developments are considered to fall under the requirements of IAS23 revised costs are capitalised.
No interest was capitalised in the year ended 30th November 2010.
IFRS2 revised Share-based payments The amendment to IFRS2 requires non-vesting conditions to be taken into account in the estimate of the fair value of the equity instruments.
The adoption of the amendment has no impact on the Groups financial statements.
IFRS7 amended Improving disclosures about financial instruments IFRS7 amended requires disclosure of fair value measurement by level of a fair value measurement hierarchy.
The required disclosures are in Note 16 to the financial statements.
co. uk 57 Standards adopted not affecting the financial statements In addition the following standards and interpretations have been adopted but have had no impact on the amounts reported or the disclosures in the financial statements: IAS27 revised 2008 Consolidated and Separate financial statements IAS32 amended IAS1 amended Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation IAS39 Eligible Hedged Items IFRS1 amended IAS27 amended Cost of a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate Payment Transactions IFRS3 revised Business Combinations IFRIC9 amended IAS39 Embedded Derivatives IFRIC15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate IFRIC17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners IFRIC18 Transfer of Assets from Customers Impact of standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue and endorsed by the EU but not yet effective: IAS24 revised 2009 Related Party Disclosures IAS32 amended 2009 Classification of Rights Issues IFRS1 amended 2009 Additional Exemptions for First-time Adopters IFRS1 amended 2010 Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters IFRS2 amended 2009 Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions IFRIC14 amended 2009 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement IFRIC19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments In addition, Improvements to IFRSs, issued in April 2009, is the most recent tranche of the Improvements to IFRS project endorsed by the EU and has a number of minor amendments to existing IAS and IFRS which have not yet been implemented.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
