90 St Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report 2010 Financial Statements Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventieth Annual General Meeting of St. Modwen Properties PLC will be held at 12 noon on Tuesday 22nd March 2011 at the Marketing Suite, Innovation Centre, 1 Devon Way, Longbridge Technology Park, Birmingham, B31 2TS for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive and adopt the report of the directors and the accounts for the year ended 30th November 2010.
To declare a final dividend of 2p per share.
To re-elect Steve Burke as a director.
To re-elect Simon Clarke as a director.
To re-elect Lady Katherine Innes Ker as a director.
To re-elect Lesley James as a director.
To re-elect Bill Oliver as a director.
To re-elect John Salmon as a director.
To elect Michael Dunn as a director.
To elect David Garman as a director.
To elect Bill Shannon as a director.
To reappoint Deloitte LLP as Auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next General Meeting at which accounts are laid and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions: 13.
Ordinary Resolution That the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 30th November 2010 be approved.
Ordinary Resolution That the authority to allot relevant securities and equity securities conferred on the directors by Article 7.2 of the Companys Articles of Association be and is hereby granted for the period ending on 22nd June 2012 or at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held after the date of the passing of this Resolution whichever is the earlier and for such period the Section 551 amount shall be 4,963,907.
Special Resolution That the power to allot relevant securities and equity securities conferred on the directors by Article 7.2 of the Companys Articles of Association be and is hereby granted for the period ending on 22nd June 2012 or at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held after the date of the passing of this Resolution whichever is the earlier and for such period the Section 561 amount shall be 1,001,805.
Special Resolution That, in accordance with Article 9 of its Articles of Association and Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company be and is hereby granted general and unconditional authority to make market purchases as defined in Section 693 of the Companies Act 2006 of any of its own ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the Board of directors may from time to time determine PROVIDED THAT the general authority conferred by this Resolution shall: a be limited to 20,036,093 ordinary shares of 10p each: b not permit the payment per share of more than 105% of the average middle market price quotation on the London Stock Exchange for the ordinary shares on the five previous dealing days or less than 10p in each case exclusive of advance corporation tax if any and expenses payable by the Company : and c expire on 22nd June 2012 or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held after the date of the passing of this Resolution whichever is the earlier, save that if the Company should before such expiry enter into a contract of purchase then the purchase may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
Special Resolution To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following as a special resolution: That a general meeting other than an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the Board Reeta Stokes Company Secretary 28th February 2011 Registered Office: Sir Stanley Clarke House 7, Ridgeway Quinton Business Park Birmingham B32 1AF explanatory notes to the Resolutions 1 Resolution 1 is to receive the Accounts and the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors for the year ended 30th November 2010.
2 The performance of the Board as a whole, as well as the contribution made by the individual non-executive directors has been reviewed during the course of the year.
After considering this evaluation, the Board believes that the individuals continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles and that their respective skills complement each other to enhance the overall operation of the Board.
All of the directors offer themselves for reelection, proposed through separate resolutions 3 to 8.
Biographical details of these directors can be found on pages 28 and 29.
3 Under the Companys Articles of Association, any director appointed by the Board since the date of the last Annual General Meeting may only hold office until the next Annual General Meeting, at which time the director is required to stand for election by the shareholders.
Accordingly, David Garman, Bill Shannon and Michael Dunn, having been appointed on 19th April, 1st November and 1st December 2010 respectively, offer themselves for election, under resolutions 9 to 11.
Their biographies are shown on pages 28 and 29.
4 Resolution 12 is proposed to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors to hold office until the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are presented and to authorise the Directors to determine the level of the auditors remuneration.
5 Resolution 13 is to approve the Directors Remuneration Report, which is included on pages 38 to 43 and provides details of the Groups remuneration policy for the directors and senior executives.
In accordance with sections 439 and 440 of the Companies Act 2006, the vote on this resolution is advisory and no directors remuneration is conditional upon the passing of this resolution.
6 The existing general authority of the directors to allot shares and the current disapplication of the statutory pre-emption rights granted at the Companys 2010 Annual General Meeting expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Article 7.2 of the Companys Articles of Association contains a general authority for the directors to allot shares in the Company for a period not exceeding five years the prescribed period and up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount the Section 551 amount approved by a Special or Ordinary Resolution of the Company.
Article 7.2 also empowers the directors during the prescribed period to allot shares for cash in connection with a rights issue and also to allot shares for cash in any other circumstances up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount approved by a Special Resolution of the Company the Section 561 amount.
Resolution 14, which will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution, provides for the Section 551 amount to be 4,963,907 being an amount equal to the authorised but unissued share capital of the Company at the date of this report and representing 25% of the Companys issued share capital at that date.
The Board has no intention at present to exercise the authority to allot shares under this resolution.
Resolution 15, which will be proposed as a Special Resolution, provides for the Section 561 amount to be 1,001,805 representing 5% of the Companys issued share capital.
The prescribed period for which these powers and authorities are granted will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held next year or on 22nd June 2012 if earlier, when the directors intend to seek renewal of the authorities.
7 Resolution 16 is to renew the authority for the Company to purchase certain of its own shares for a further year.
The directors believe it is advantageous to have such authority but would only exercise it if it was believed to be in the best interests of shareholders.
At present, the Board has no intention to exercise the authority.
92 St Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report 2010 Financial Statements Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 8.
Changes made to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders Rights Regulations increase the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 clear days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
Annual General Meetings AGM will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
Before the Shareholders Rights Regulations came into force on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general meetings other than AGMs on 14 clear days notice without obtaining such shareholder approval.
In order to preserve this ability, Resolution 17 seeks such approval.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The following notes explain your general rights as a shareholder and your right to attend and vote at this AGM or to appoint someone else to vote on your behalf.
a A member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint a proxy to attend, speak and vote on his her behalf.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares of the member.
A proxy need not be a member but must attend the meeting in person.
Proxy forms should be lodged with the registrars office or submitted not later than 48 hours before the time for which the meeting is convened.
Completion of the appropriate proxy form does not prevent a member from attending and voting in person if he she is entitled to do so and so wishes.
b To be valid, the Form of Proxy and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, must be received by the Companys registrars before 12 noon on Sunday 20th March 2011, either in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys registrars, Equiniti Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA.
c Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights Nominated Person may, under an agreement with the member who nominated him her, have a right to be appointed, or have someone else appointed, as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person does not have this right or does not wish to exercise it, he or she may have a right under such an agreement to give the member voting instructions.
d The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in Note a does not apply to Nominated Persons e As at 25th February 2011 being the last working day prior to the publication of this notice, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 200,360,931 shares, carrying one vote each, which represents the total voting rights in the Company as at that date.
f The following documents are available for inspection during normal business hours at the registered office of the Company on any business day and may also be inspected at the Marketing Suite, Innovation Centre, 1 Devon Way, Longbridge Technology Park, Birmingham, B31 2TS at least 15 minutes prior to the commencement of, and during the continuance of, the Annual General Meeting: i copies of the Directors service contracts with the Company: ii copies of the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment: and iii a copy of the Companys Articles of Association g In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company gives notice that only those shareholders entered on the relevant register of members the Register for certificated or uncertificated shares of the Company as the case may be at 6 p. m. on Sunday 20th March 2011 the Specified Time will be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at the time.
Changes to entries on the Register after the Specified Time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at that meeting.
Should the meeting be adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the Specified Time, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
Should the meeting be adjourned for a longer period, then to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Register at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at the time specified in the notice.
h Electronic proxy appointment through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the annual general meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds EUI specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual available at www.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys agent ID RA19 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
co. uk 93 CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that EUI does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. i Representatives of shareholders that are corporations will have to produce evidence of their proper appointment when attending the AGM.
Please contact our Registrars if you need any further guidance on this.
j Every shareholder has the right to appoint some other person s of their choice, who need not be a shareholder as his proxy to exercise all or any of his rights, to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
If you wish to appoint a person other than the Chairman, please insert the name of your chosen proxy holder in the space provided.
If the proxy is being appointed in relation to less than your full voting entitlement, please enter in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
If left blank your proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement or if the proxy form has been issued in respect of a designated account for a shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that designated account.
k To appoint more than one proxy, an additional proxy form s may be obtained by contacting the Registrars helpline on 0871 384 2198 or you may photocopy this form calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline, other telephony provider costs may vary.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Please indicate in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
l Shareholders who would prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the internet can do so through the Sharevote website, www.
co. uk, using their personal Authentication Reference Number this is the series of numbers printed under the headings Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number on the Proxy Form.
Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with Equiniti Registrars online portfolio service, Shareview, can appoint their proxy electronically by logging on to their portfolio at www.
co. uk and clicking on the link to vote under theirSt.
Full details and instructions on these electronic proxy facilities are given on the respective websites.
You may not use any electronic address provided in either this Notice of General Meeting or any related documents including the Proxy Form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
m Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
n A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found on the Companys website at www.
