co. uk 55 Share-based payments When employee share options are exercised the employee has the choice whether to have the liability settled by way of cash or the retention of shares.
As it has been the Companys experience to satisfy the majority of share options in cash, and new shares are not issued to satisfy employee share option plans, the Group accounts for its share option schemes as cash-settled.
The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured at fair value using an appropriate option pricing model and amortised through the income statement over the vesting period.
The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date.
Revisions to the fair value of the accrued liability after the end of the vesting period are recorded in the income statement of the year in which they occur.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for any amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled, or they expire.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Provision is made when there is evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and short-term deposits with banks.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables on deferred payment terms are initially recorded by discounting the nominal amount payable to net present value.
The discount to nominal value is amortised over the period of the deferred arrangement and charged to finance costs.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised in finance income or finance expense as appropriate.
The effective interest rate method is used to charge interest to the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate fluctuations.
Such instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The Group has determined that the derivative financial instruments in use do not qualify for hedge accounting and, consequently, any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken to the income statement.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received less direct issue costs.
Use of estimates and judgements To be able to prepare accounts according to generally accepted accounting principles, management must make estimates and assumptions that affect the asset and liability items and revenue and expense amounts recorded in the financial accounts.
These estimates are based on the Groups systems of internal control, historical experience and the advice of external experts including qualified professional valuers and actuaries together with various other assumptions that management and the Board of directors believe are reasonable under the circumstances.
The results of these considerations form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
The areas requiring the use of estimates and critical judgements that may significantly impact the Groups earnings and financial position are: Going concern The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
This is discussed in the Business Review, under the heading Financial Structure and adoption of the going concern assumption is confirmed on page 36.
Valuation of investment properties Management has used the valuation performed by its independent valuers as the fair value of its investment properties.
The valuation is performed according to RICS rules, using appropriate levels of professional judgement for the prevailing market conditions.
