co. uk 53 Operating property, plant and equipment Operating property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Such cost includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is provided on all operating property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset evenly over its expected useful life as follows: Leasehold operating properties over the shorter of the lease term and 25 years Plant, machinery and equipment over 2 to 5 years Leases The Group as lessee Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Non-property assets held under finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease with a corresponding liability being recognised for the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Nonproperty assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Freehold interests in leasehold investment properties are accounted for as finance leases with the present value of guaranteed minimum ground rents included within the carrying value of the property and within long-term liabilities.
On payment of a guaranteed ground rent, virtually all of the cost is charged to the income statement, as interest payable, and the balance reduces the liability.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Group as lessor Rental income from operating leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Income taxes Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to, the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable result for the year.
The taxable result differs from the result as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements, using the rates of tax expected to apply based on legislation enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, with the following exceptions: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the income statement.
Pensions The Group operates a pension scheme with both defined benefit and defined contribution sections.
The defined benefit section is closed to new members and, from 1st September 2009, to future accrual.
