52 St Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report 2010 Financial Statements Accounting Policies for the year ended 30th November 2010 Basis of preparation The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU as they apply to the Group for the year ended 30th November 2010, applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain properties, derivative financial instruments and the defined benefit section of the Groups pension scheme.
The Groups functional currency is pounds sterling and its IFRS accounting policies are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of St. Modwen Properties PLC and the entities it controls.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights or by contractual agreement.
A list of the principal entities controlled is given in Note F of the Companys financial statements.
VSM Estates Holdings Limited is 50% owned by St. Modwen Properties PLC: however, under the funding agreement the Group obtains the majority of the benefits of the entity and also retains the majority of the residual risks.
This entity is therefore consolidated in accordance with SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
All entities are consolidated from the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expense are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets that are not held by the Group and are presented separately within equity in the Group balance sheet.
Interests in joint ventures The Group recognises its interest in joint ventures using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the interest in the joint venture is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of its net assets, less distributions received, less any impairment in value of individual investments.
The income statement reflects the Groups share of the jointly controlled entities results after interest and tax.
Financial statements of jointly controlled entities are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used into line with those of the Group.
The Group statement of comprehensive income reflects the Groups share of any income and expense recognised by the jointly controlled entities outside the income statement.
Interests in associates The Groups interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, as described above.
Properties Investment properties Investment properties, being freehold and leasehold properties held to earn rental income, for capital appreciation and or for undetermined future use, are carried at fair value following initial recognition at the present value of the consideration payable.
To establish fair value, investment properties are independently valued on the basis of market value.
Any surplus or deficit arising is recognised in the income statement for the period.
Once classified as an investment property, a property remains in this category until development with a view to sale commences, at which point the asset is transferred to inventories at current valuation.
Where an investment property is being redeveloped for continued use as an investment property, the property remains within investment property and any movement in valuation is recognised in the income statement.
Investment property disposals are recognised on completion.
Profits and losses arising are recognised through the income statement and the profit on disposal is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset.
Investment properties are not depreciated.
Inventories Inventories principally comprise properties held for sale, properties under construction and land under option.
All inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises land, direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
When inventory includes a transfer from investment properties, cost is recorded as the book value at the date of transfer.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
