80 St Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report 2010 Financial Statements Notes to the Company Accounts for the year ended 30th November 2010 A.
ACCOUNTING POLICIeS Basis of preparation The accounts and notes have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK GAAP on a going concern basis.
Compliance with SSAP19 Accounting for Investment Properties requires departure from the Companies Act 2006 relating to depreciation and an explanation of the departure is given below.
Accounting convention The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for the revaluation of certain properties, derivative financial instruments and the defined benefit section of the Companys pension scheme.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that the Company obtains the right to consideration in exchange for its performance.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, excluding discounts and VAT.
Rental income Rental income arising from investment properties is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Interest receivable Interest receivable is recognised on an accruals basis.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets, other than investment properties, are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Such cost includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is provided on all plant, machinery and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, of each asset evenly over its expected useful life as follows: Plant, machinery and equipment over 2 to 5 years Depreciation is not provided on investment properties which are subject to annual revaluations.
Long leasehold investment properties In accordance with SSAP19, investment properties are revalued annually and the aggregate surplus or temporary deficit is transferred to the revaluation reserve.
Permanent diminutions are recognised through the profit and loss account.
No depreciation is provided in respect of investment properties.
The Companies Act 2006 requires all properties to be depreciated.
However, this requirement conflicts with the generally accepted accounting principle set out in SSAP19.
The directors consider that, because these properties are not held for consumption but for their investment potential, to depreciate them would not give a true and fair view and that it is necessary to adopt SSAP19 in order to give a true and fair view.
If this departure from the Act had not been made, the profit for the financial year would have been reduced by depreciation.
However, the amount of depreciation cannot reasonably be quantified because depreciation is only one of many factors reflected in the annual valuation and the amount which might otherwise have been shown cannot be separately identified or quantified.
Investment in subsidiary, joint venture and associated companies The investments in subsidiary, joint venture and associated companies are included in the Companys balance sheet at the Companys share of net asset value.
The valuation recognises the cost of acquisition and changes in the book values of the underlying net assets.
The surplus or deficit arising on revaluation is reflected in the Companys reserves.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay less or to receive more tax, with the following exceptions: provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation and similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets and gains on disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the replacement assets are sold: and deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
ACCOUNTING POLICIeS CONTINUED Interest Interest paid is charged to the profit and loss account on an accruals basis.
Finance costs of debt are allocated over the term of the debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Share-based payment When employee share options are exercised the employee has the choice of whether to have the liability to them settled by way of cash or the retention of shares.
As it has been the Companys practice to satisfy the majority of share options in cash and new shares are not issued to satisfy employee share option plans the Company accounts for its share option schemes as cash-settled.
The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured at fair value using an appropriate option pricing model and amortised through the income statement over the vesting period.
The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date.
Revisions to the fair value of the accrued liability after the end of the vesting period are recorded in the income statement of the year in which they occur.
Pensions The Company operates a pension scheme with both defined benefit and defined contribution sections.
The defined benefit section is closed to new members and, from 1st September 2009, to future accrual.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit section is determined using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
Past service costs are recognised in the profit and loss account immediately if the benefits have vested.
The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents the change in present value of scheme obligations.
The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long-term market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
The difference between the expected return on plan assets and the interest cost is recognised in the profit and loss account as other finance income or expense.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement of total recognised gains and losses in the year in which they occur.
The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation, less any past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised in the profit and loss account in the period in which they become payable.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate fluctuations.
Such instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The Company has determined that the derivative financial instruments in use do not qualify for hedge accounting and, consequently, any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken to the profit and loss account.
Full details of the Companys derivative financial instruments are given in Note 16 to the Group financial statements.
Own shares St. Modwen Properties PLC shares held by the Company are classified in shareholders equity and are recognised at cost.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance income and expense.
Operating leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Cash flow statement The Company has taken advantage of the exemption permitted by FRS1 not to present a cash flow statement.
