94 St Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report 2010 Financial Statements Glossary of Terms Annualised net rents are gross rents as at a reporting date plus, where Interest cover is profit before interest and tax excluding non-cash items rent reviews are outstanding, any increases to estimated rental value such as investment property revaluations plus the realisation of previous as determined by the Groups external valuers, less any ground rents years revaluations, as a percentage of net interest excluding non-cash payable under head leases.
items such as mark-to-market of interest rate swaps.
BReeAM Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment IPD is Investment Property Databank Ltd. a company that produces an Method an industry-wide system of standards to assess sustainable independent benchmark of property returns.
developments and measure the environmental impact of buildings.
Market value is an opinion of the best price at which the sale of an Capital allowances deferred tax provision In accordance with IAS 12, interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash full provision has been made for the deferred tax arising on the benefit of consideration on the date of valuation as determined by the Groups capital allowances claimed to date.
However, in the Groups experience, external valuers.
the liabilities in respect of capital allowances provided are unlikely to In accordance with usual practice, the Groups external valuers report crystallise in practice and are therefore excluded when arriving at valuations net, after the deduction of the prospective purchasers costs, EPRA NAV.
including stamp duty, agent and legal fees.
Compulsory purchase order CPO is the compulsory acquisition of land Marshalling is the process of progressing projects through planning and by a planning authority, undertaken in the public interest and with predevelopment.
defined timescales and compensation arrangements.
Net rental income is the rental income receivable in the period after CSR Corporate social responsibility.
payment of ground rents and net property outgoings.
ePRA is the European Public Real Estate Association a body that has Pre-sold projects are those projects where we are constructing buildings put forward recommendations for best practice for financial reporting by that have been specified by, and designed for, or adapted by, a specific real estate companies.
client under a specific construction contract.
On such projects, profit is ePRA net asset value ePRA NAv is the balance sheet net assets, recognised using the stage completion method.
excluding fair value adjustments for debt and related derivatives, Property profits includes profits made on sales of investment properties, deferred taxation on revaluation and capital allowances.
properties held for sale and properties under construction.
ePRA net assets per share is EPRA net assets divided by the diluted Rent roll is the gross rent plus rent reviews that have been agreed as at number of shares at the period end.
estimated rental value eRv is the Groups external valuers opinion as to Section 106 agreements are legally binding agreements reached with local the open market rent which, on the date of valuation, could reasonably planning authorities under S106 of the Town and Country Planning Act be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of the 1990.
They address the impact of proposed developments on the local property.
community and often involve a financial contribution by the developer.
equivalent yield is a weighted average of the initial yield and reversionary voids is the estimated rental value of vacant properties expressed as a yield and represents the return a property will produce based on the percentage of the total estimated rental value of the portfolio, excluding timing of the income received.
Gearing is the level of the Groups bank borrowing excluding finance Weighted average debt maturity Each tranche of Group debt is leases expressed as a percentage of net assets.
multiplied by the remaining period to its maturity and the result is hopper is the bank of property comprising all of the land under the divided by total Group debt in issue at the period end.
Groups control, whether wholly owned or through joint ventures or Weighted average interest rate is the Group loan interest and derivative development agreements.
costs per annum at the period end, divided by total Group debt in issue IFRS International financial reporting standards.
Initial yield is the annualised net rent expressed as a percentage of the valuation.
