Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 82 Key assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of the consolidated based upon statistical and actuarial Clinical Solutions and Decontamination financial statements in conformity with calculations.
In particular the present segment which together are part of the IFRS requires management to make value of the defined benefit obligation is Manage for value businesses, we have estimates and assumptions that affect impacted by assumptions on discount separated the Clinical Solutions and the application of policies and reported rates used to arrive at the present value Decontamination business into amounts of assets, liabilities, income, of future pension liabilities, and individual Cash Generating Units CGU expenses and related disclosures.
assumptions on future increases in this year as there are separate assets The estimates and underlying salaries and benefits.
Furthermore, the and cash flows for each CGU.
The group assumptions are based on historical groups independent actuaries use has estimated the future cash flows experience and other relevant factors.
statistically based assumptions covering expected to result from the use of the This approach forms the basis of areas such as future withdrawals of assets within the Decontamination CGU, making the judgements about carrying participants from the plan and estimates and have consequently recognised an values of assets and liabilities that are on life expectancy.
The actuarial impairment charge of 24.3 million, not readily apparent from other sources.
assumptions used may differ materially comprising a full write down of the Actual results may differ from these from actual results due to changes in associated goodwill 21.0 million and estimates.
market and economic conditions, higher write off of the capitalised pre-contract or lower withdrawal rates or longer or and commissioning costs 3.3 million.
The estimates and underlying shorter life spans of participants and In addition, an onerous contract assumptions are reviewed on an other changes in the factors being provision of 9.9 million has been ongoing basis.
These differences could recognised for the two loss-making estimates may be necessary if there are impact the assets or liabilities decontamination contracts.
The key changes in the circumstances on which recognised in the balance sheet in assumption used in determining the the estimate was based, or as a result of future periods.
The last triennial onerous contract provision is the period new information.
Such changes are valuation of the main UK pension over which mitigating actions are recognised in the period in which the scheme took place in February 2010. planned to achieve a financially estimate is revised.
This has been c Income taxes The key assumptions about the assessed as four years, with the losses At 31st December 2010, the net liability future and key sources of estimation being principally incurred in the first two for current income taxes is 7.2 million uncertainty that have a risk of causing a years.
If there was a one year delay to and the net liability for deferred income material adjustment to the carrying these actions being taken, the onerous taxes is 39.0 million note 19. value of assets and liabilities within the contract provision would increase by Estimates may be required in next 12 months are described below.
determining the level of current and a Property, plant and equipment and deferred income tax assets and No impairment has been made in intangible assets, including goodwill liabilities, which management respect of the plant and machinery The group has property, plant and believes are reasonable and adequately which has a carrying value of equipment with a carrying value of recognises any income tax related 17.8 million as at the year end.
534.4 million note 10, goodwill with a uncertainties.
The key assumptions used to support carrying value of 428.1 million note 8 this assessment are as follows: Various factors may have favourable or and intangible assets with a carrying unfavourable effects on the income tax New contract wins will increase value of 91.3 million note 9.
These include revenues significantly from 2013 assets are reviewed annually for changes in tax laws, tax rates, onwards.
impairment as described above interpretations of existing tax laws, The margin achieved for the new intangible assets and property, plant future levels of spending and in overall contracts will be in line with other and equipment sections.
To assess if levels of future earnings.
existing Clinical Solutions and any impairment exists, estimates are decontamination contracts.
made of the future cash flows expected d Share-based payments The pre-tax discount rate used for to result from the use of the assets and The economic cost of awarding shares the CGU is 11%.
Actual and share options to employees is outcomes could vary from such reflected by recording a charge in the If the above assumptions are not estimates of discounted future cash income statement equivalent to the fair achieved then impairment of the plant flows.
Factors such as changes in the value of the benefit awarded over the and machinery may become necessary.
planned use of buildings, machinery or vesting period.
The fair values of the For example: equipment, or closure of facilities, the awards are determined by use of the If only half the estimated new presence or absence of competition, or Black-Scholes and Monte-Carlo models.
contract win revenue was achieved, lower than anticipated sales could result e Provisions the group would have to recognise in shortened useful lives or impairment.
Provisions for vacant properties, an impairment of 4.1 million.
b Pensions and other postrestructuring costs and legal claims are If the new contract gross margin employment benefits recognised when the group has was 5% less than managements The group operates a number of a present legal or constructive estimates at 31 December 2010, defined benefit schemes within the UK obligation as a result of past events and the group would need to reduce and Europe note 27.
As at it is more likely than not that an outflow the carrying value by 2.4 million.
31st December 2010 the present of resources will be required to settle If the pre-tax discount rate had value of the groups defined benefit the obligation: and the amount has been been 1% higher than managements obligation for funded plans was a reliably estimated.
estimates, the group would have surplus of 20.3 million and a deficit of to recognise an impairment of f Clinical Solutions and 23.9 million for unfunded plans.
Decontamination business The calculations of the recognised In view of the ongoing losses relating to assets and liabilities from such plans are the decontamination contracts in the 13966 R&A2010 p69-128.
