Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 67 Directors responsibilities for the financial statements In accordance with DTR 4.1.
12, each of The directors are responsible for The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the ensuring that the group and company the directors confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: financial statements in accordance keeps accounting records which withapplicable law and regulations.
disclose with reasonable accuracy the i the financial statements of the group, financial position of the company and Company law requires the directors prepared in accordance with which enable them to ensure that the to prepare financial statements for International Financial Reporting financial statements comply with the each financial year.
Under that law the Standards as adopted by the EU, Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 directors have prepared the group andthe financial statements of the ofthe IAS Regulation and the parent financial statements in accordance company, prepared in accordance company financial statements comply with International Financial Reporting with United Kingdom Generally with the Companies Act 2006.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by Accepted Accounting Practice, give the European Union, and the parent The directors have a general atrue and fair view of the assets, company financial statements in responsibility for taking such steps as liabilities, financial position and profit accordance with applicable law and are reasonably open to them to or loss of the company and the United Kingdom Accounting Standards safeguard the assets of the group and undertakings included in the United Kingdom Generally Accepted company and to prevent and detect consolidation taken as a whole: and Accounting Practice.
The group and fraud and other irregularities.
ii the management report, which is parent company financial statements incorporated into the Directors This statement, which should be read in are required by law to give a true conjunction with the Auditors Report, report, includes a fair review of the and fair view of the state of affairs of development and performance of is made with a view to distinguishing for the company and the group and of the members the respective responsibilities thebusiness and the position of profit or loss of the company and the company and the undertakings of the directors and the auditors in group for that period.
relation to the financial statements.
included in the consolidation takenasa whole, together with The financial statements on pages 69 A copy of the financial statements to 127 have been prepared on a going a description of the principal risks annual report is on the companys anduncertainties they face.
concern basis, suitable accounting website at www.
policies have been used and applied Thedirectors are responsible for The current directors and their functions consistently, reasonable and prudent themaintenance and integrity of the are listed on page 41. judgements and estimates have been companys website, and the work By order of the board made and applicable accounting carried out by the auditors does not standards have been followed.
involve consideration of these matters.
Accordingly, the auditors accept no David Lawler responsibility for any changes that Company Secretary mayhave occurred to the financial 24th February 2011 statements since they were placed onthe website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in manycountries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation inother jurisdictions.
B Be er re en nd ds se en n p pl lc c F Fo or rm me er rlly y T Th he e D Da av viis s S Se er rv viic ce e G Gr ro ou up p P Pllc c R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 10 0 6 68 8 Finance Directors foreword From Kevin Quinn Contents Financial statements 69 Independent auditors report 70 Consolidated income statement 71 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 72 Consolidated balance sheet 73 Consolidated cash flow statement 74 Consolidated statement of changesinequity 76 Accounting policies to the Finance.
consolidated financial statements 82 Key assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty 83 Notes to the consolidated Robust financialstatements 120 Independent auditors report for theparent company 121 Parent company financial statements 122 Accounting policies to the parent performance.
company financial statements 124 Notes to the parent company Trading conditions in 2010 remained largely unchanged yet, despite this, the group financial statements has delivered against its priorities of further improving its operational efficiency, 128 Five year record delivering a strong free cash flow and maintaining a robust balance sheet.
In the year ended 31st December 2010, we increased our adjusted operating profit by 7% to 123.9million, with revenue of 986.1 million similar to last year, improving our adjusted operating margin by 70bps.
Our earnings grew 6% to 41.7 pence per share and we are increasing our dividend by 6% to 21.2 pence for the full year.
