Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 76 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements Basis of preparation The following new and amended All intra-group transactions are The consolidated financial statements standards and interpretations are eliminated as part of the consolidation have been prepared in accordance with mandatory for the first time for the process.
Accounting policies of International Financial Reporting financial year beginning 1st January subsidiaries have been changed where Standards as adopted by the European 2010 and have not had a material necessary to ensure consistency with Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU, impact on the group: the policies adopted by the group.
IFRIC Interpretations and the IFRIC 17, Distribution of non-cash Companies Act 2006 applicable to Business combinations assets to owners.
The The group uses the acquisition method IFRIC 18, Transfers of assets from consolidated financial statements have of accounting to account for business customers.
been prepared under the historical cost combinations.
The consideration IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded convention, as modified by availabletransferred for the acquisition of a derivatives and IAS 39, Financial for-sale financial assets, and financial subsidiary is the fair values of the assets instruments: Recognition and assets and financial liabilities including transferred, the liabilities incurred and measurement.
derivative instruments at fair value the equity interests issued by the group.
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment through profit or loss.
The consideration transferred includes in a foreign operation.
the fair value of any asset or liability The preparation of financial statements IAS 1 amendment, Presentation resulting from a contingent in conformity with IFRS requires the use of financial statements.
Acquisitionof certain critical accounting estimates.
IAS 36 amendment, Impairment of related costs are expensed as incurred It also requires management to exercise assets.
and disclosed as exceptional items.
its judgement in the process of applying IFRS 2 amendments, Group Identifiable assets acquired and the groups accounting policies.
cash-settled share-based payment liabilities and contingent liabilities The areas involving a higher degree of transactions.
assumed in a business combination are judgement or complexity, or areas IFRS 5 amendment, Non-current measured initially at their fair values at where assumptions and estimates assets held for sale and discontinued the acquisition date.
The excess of the are significant to the consolidated operations.
consideration transferred, the amount of financial statements are disclosed The following new standards, any non-controlling interest in the on page 82. amendments to standards and acquiree and the acquisition date fair The following new standards and interpretations have been issued, value of any previous equity interest in amendments to standards are but are not effective for the financial the acquiree over the fair value of the mandatory for the first time year beginning 1st January 2010 and groups share of the identifiable net for the financial year beginning have not been early-adopted.
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Their expected impact is still being If this is less than the fair value of the assessed by management: net assets of the subsidiary acquired in IFRS 3 revised, Business the case of a bargain purchase, the combinations revised 2008.
difference is recognised directly in the The standard is applicable for IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures statement of comprehensive income.
in reporting periods beginning on or Classification of rights issues Non-current assets held for sale after 1st July 2009.
The revised amendment to IAS 32.
Non-current assets and disposal standard continues to apply the IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial groups classified as held for sale are acquisition method to business liabilities with equity instruments.
measured at the lower of carrying combinations but with some Prepayments of a minimum funding amount and fair values less costs to sell.
significant changes compared requirement amendments to IFRIC with IFRS 3.
Non-current assets and disposal purchase a business are recorded at groups are classified as held for sale if fair value at the acquisition date, with Consolidation their carrying amount will be recovered contingent payments classified as The group financial statements through a sale transaction rather than debt subsequently re-measured consolidate the financial statements of through continuing use.
This condition is through the statement of the company and all its subsidiaries.
regarded as met only when the sale is comprehensive income.
All Subsidiaries are all entities over which highly probable and the asset or acquisition-related costs are the group has the power to govern the disposal group is available for expensed in the income statement financial and operating policies immediate sale in its present condition.
and are disclosed as exceptional generally accompanying a shareholding Management must be committed to the items.
of more than one half of the voting sale which should be expected to rights.
Subsidiaries are fully qualify for recognition as a completed consolidated from the date on which sale within one year from the date of control is transferred to the group and classification.
are fide-consolidated from the date on which control ceases.
indd 76 02 03 2011 02:37 Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 77 Segment reporting Changes in the fair value of monetary Pre-contract bid costs Operating segments are reported in a securities denominated in foreign Pre-contract costs are expensed as manner consistent with the internal currency classified as available for sale incurred until the group is appointed reporting provided to the chief are analysed between translation preferred bidder.
The chief differences resulting from changes in status provides sufficient confidence operating decision-maker, who is the amortised cost of the security, and that the conclusion of the contract is responsible for allocating resources and other changes in the carrying amount of probable, the outcome can be reliably assessing performance of the operating the security.
Translation differences are measured and is expected to generate segments, has been identified as the recognised in profit or loss, and other sufficient net cash inflows to enable Berendsen plc executive board.
changes in carrying amount are recovery.
Pre-contract costs incurred recognised in equity.
subsequent to appointment as The Berendsen plc executive board preferred bidder are capitalised onto considers the business from both a Translation differences on nonthe balance sheet under prepayments geographical and product service monetary financial assets and liabilities and accrued income.
The prepayment is perspective: Textile maintenance are reported as part of the fair value expensed to the income statement over Nordic, Textile maintenance Continent, gain or loss.
Translation differences on the period of the contract.
Costs, which Textile maintenance UK and Ireland and non-monetary financial assets and have been expensed, are not Clinical Solutions and Decontamination.
liabilities such as equities held at fair subsequently reinstated when a The Clinical Solutions and value through profit or loss are contract award is achieved.
Decontamination segment is reported recognised in profit or loss as part of although it does not meet the the fair value gain or loss.
Translation Property, plant and equipment quantitative thresholds required by differences on non-monetary financial Land and buildings comprise mainly IFRS 8. assets such as equities classified as factories and offices.
All property, plant available for sale are included in the fair and equipment is shown at cost less Foreign currency translation value reserve in equity.
Cost includes a Functional and presentation c Group companies expenditure that is directly attributable currency The results and financial position of to the acquisition of the items.
Items included in the financial all the group entities that have a statements of each of the groups Textile assets such as garments and functional currency different from the entities are measured using the linen and washroom equipment which presentation currency are translated currency of the primary economic are owned by the group entities where into the presentation currency environment in which the entity substantially all the risks and rewards of as follows: operates the functional currency.
ownership of such equipment is The consolidated functional statements assets and liabilities for each balance retained by group entities are are presented in sterling, which is the sheet presented are translated at the capitalised as non-current assets and companys functional and closing rate at the date of that depreciated over their estimated useful presentational currency.
income and expenses for each b Transactions and balances Depreciation of assets is calculated income statement are translated Foreign currency transactions are using the straight line method to at average exchange rates translated into the functional currency allocate the cost of each asset to its unless this average is not a using the exchange rates prevailing at residual value over its estimated useful reasonable approximation of the the dates of the transactions.
Foreign life, as follows: cumulative effect of the rates exchange gains and losses resulting prevailing on the transaction dates, in a Land and buildings from the settlement of such which case income and expenses are Depreciated at a rate of 2% per annum transactions and from the translation at translated at the rate on the dates of on an estimate of the buildings value of year-end exchange rates of monetary the transactions : and freehold properties and leasehold assets and liabilities denominated in all resulting exchange differences are properties with 50 or more years foreign currencies are recognised in the recognised as a separate component unexpired at the balance sheet date.
income statement, except when of equity.
This rate has been determined having deferred in equity as qualifying cash regard to the groups practice to flow hedges and qualifying net On consolidation, exchange differences maintain these assets in a continual investment hedges.
arising from the translation of the net state of sound repair and to extend and investment in foreign operations, and of Foreign exchange gains and losses that make improvements from time to time.
borrowings and other currency relate to borrowings and cash and cash Freehold land is not depreciated.
Short instruments designated as hedges of equivalents are presented in the income leasehold land and buildings are such investments, are taken to statement within finance income or depreciated by equal instalments over shareholders equity.
All other foreign exchange gains the period of the lease.
operation is partially disposed of or sold, and losses are presented in the income exchange differences that were Major renovations are depreciated over statement within other losses gains recorded in equity are recognised in the the remaining useful life of the related net.
income statement as part of the gain or asset or to the scheduled date of the loss on sale.
next major renovation, whichever is sooner.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign b Plant and machinery entity are treated as assets and liabilities Depreciated at rates of 10% to 50% per of the foreign entity and translated at annum, depending on the class of the the closing rate.
indd 77 02 03 2011 02:37 Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 78 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued c Textile assets and washroom Costs associated with maintaining Impairment of non-financial assets equipment computer software programs are Assets that have an indefinite useful life Depreciated at rates of 20% to 40%, recognised as an expense as incurred.
for example, goodwill or intangible depending on class of asset, and Development costs that are directly assets not ready to use are not subject augmented where necessary by attributable to the design and testing of to amortisation and are tested annually amounts to cover wastage, identifiable and unique software for impairment.
products controlled by the group are Assets that are subject to amortisation recognised as intangible assets when When properties, plant or equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever the following criteria are met: are sold, the difference between the events or changes in circumstances sales proceeds and net book value is it is technically feasible to complete indicate that the carrying amount may included in the income statement.
the software product so that it will not be recoverable.
An impairment loss be available for use: is recognised for the amount by Residual values and useful lives of management intends to complete which the assets carrying amount assets are reviewed annually and the software product and use or exceeds its recoverable amount.
sell it: The recoverable amount is the higher of there is an ability to use or sell the an assets fair value less costs to sell and Intangible assets software product: value in use.
For the purposes of a Goodwill it can be demonstrated how the assessing impairment, assets are Goodwill represents the excess of the software product will generate grouped at the lowest levels for which cost of an acquisition over the fair value probable future economic benefits: there are separately identifiable cash of the groups share of the net adequate technical, financial and flows cash-generating units.
Nonidentifiable assets of the acquired other resources to complete the financial assets other than goodwill that subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
development and to use or sell the suffered impairment are reviewed for Goodwill net of amortisation prior to 1st software product are available: and possible reversal of the impairment at January 2005 in respect of business the expenditure attributable to the each reporting date.
combinations made since 1st January software product during its 1998 is included within intangible assets.
development can be reliably Financial assets Goodwill in respect of business measured.
The group classifies its non-derivative combinations made on or before 31st financial assets as loans and receivables.
December 1997 remains eliminated Directly attributable costs that are The classification depends on the against reserves.
capitalised as part of the software purpose for which the financial assets product include the software Goodwill has an indefinite useful life.
Management determines development employee costs and the classification of its financial assets at Goodwill is tested annually for an appropriate portion of relevant initial recognition.
impairment or if there is an indication of overheads.
Goodwill is allocated to Loans and receivables are nonOther development expenditures that cash-generating units for the purpose of derivative financial assets with fixed or do not meet these criteria are impairment testing.
Gains and losses on determinable payments that are not recognised as an expense as incurred.
the disposal of an entity include the quoted in an active market.
Development costs previously carrying amount of goodwill relating to recognised as an expense are not the entity sold except for goodwill Derivative financial instruments recognised as an asset in a subsequent eliminated against reserves.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair b Computer software Computer software development costs value on the date a derivative contract Acquired computer software recognised as assets are amortised over is entered into and are subsequently licences are capitalised on the basis of their estimated useful lives, which does remeasured at their fair value at each the costs incurred to acquire and bring not exceed five years.
The method of to use the specific software.
These costs recognising the resulting gain or loss are amortised over their estimated c Customer contracts depends on whether the derivative is useful lives not exceeding three years.
Intangible assets arising either from designated as a hedging instrument, legal or contractual rights which have and if so, the nature of the item being been purchased are required to be hedged.
separately identified from goodwill and are stated at historical cost, or in the case of intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination, at fair value.
The fair value attributable to the customer contracts is determined by discounting the expected future cash flows to be generated from that asset at the risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital for the entity.
This amount is amortised over the period in which the company is expected to benefit from the contracts acquired, over periods ranging from two to five years.
indd 78 02 03 2011 02:37 Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 79 The group designates certain c Cash flow hedge Trade receivables derivatives as either i hedges of The effective portion of changes in the Trade receivables are recognised the fair value of recognised assets fair value of derivatives that are initially at fair value less provision for or liabilities fair value hedge : or designated to qualify as cash flow impairment.
They are subsequently held ii hedges of a particular risk associated hedges are recognised in equity.
at amortised cost less provision for with a recognised asset or liability, or a The groups cash flow hedges which are impairment.
A provision for impairment highly probable forecast transaction in respect of cross-currency interest of trade receivables is established when cash flow hedge : or iii hedges of net rate swaps, interest rate swaps and there is objective evidence that the investments in foreign operations net forward foreign exchange contracts group will not be able to collect all investment hedge.
result in recognition in either the amounts due according to the original currency translation component of terms of the receivables.
The amount of The group documents at the inception equity or in the hedging reserve.
the change in provision is recognised in of the transaction the relationship the income statement.
between hedging instruments and When a hedging instrument expires or is hedged items and its assessment, both sold, or when the hedge no longer Cash and cash equivalents at hedge inception and on an ongoing meets the criteria for hedge accounting, Cash and cash equivalents include cash basis, of whether the derivatives that any cumulative gain or loss in equity at in hand, deposits held at call with banks, are used in the hedging transactions are that time remains in equity and is other short-term highly liquid highly effective in offsetting changes in recognised when the forecast investments with original maturities of fair values of hedged items.
When a three months or less.
forecast transaction is no longer The fair value of various derivative expected to occur, the cumulative gain instruments used for hedging purposes Share capital or loss that was reported in equity will are disclosed in note 16.
Movements on Ordinary shares are classified as equity be transferred to the income statement.
the hedging reserve in shareholders and are recorded at par value of equity are shown in note 24.
The group d Derivatives that do not qualify for proceeds received, net of direct issue holds no trading derivatives.
Where shares are issued above Changes in the fair value of any par value, the proceeds in excess of par a Fair value hedge derivative instruments that do not value are recorded in the share Changes in the fair value of the qualify for hedge accounting are premium account.
derivatives that are fully designated and recognised immediately in the income qualify as fair value hedges are Where any group company purchases statement.
recorded in the income statement, the companys equity share capital, the together with any changes in the fair e Energy contracts consideration paid, including any value of the hedged asset or liability The group occasionally takes out directly attributable incremental costs, that are attributable to the hedged risk.
energy contracts in relation to the is deducted from equity attributable to supply of gas and electricity.
Such the companys shareholders until the The group has one fair value hedge in contracts are not recognised as shares are cancelled, reissued or respect of a cross currency fixed to derivative financial instruments as they disposed of.
Where such shares are floating interest rate swap.
If the hedge are held with the purpose of the receipt subsequently sold or reissued, any no longer meets the criteria for hedge or delivery of a non-financial item in consideration received, net of any accounting, the exchange component accordance with the entitys expected directly attributable incremental costs, of the derivative will continue to be purchase, sale or usage requirements.
is included in equity attributable to the taken to the income statement other companys shareholders.
gains and losses along with the Inventories exchange on the related borrowings.
Inventories are stated at the lower of Trade payables The interest component of the cost and net realisable value.
Cost is Trade payables are obligations to derivative item will be amortised to the determined using the first in, first out pay for goods or services that have income statement over the period to FIFO method.
The cost of finished been acquired in the ordinary course of maturity.
goods and work in progress comprises business from suppliers.
Accounts b Net investment hedge of raw materials, direct labour, other payable are classified as current Any gain or loss on the hedging direct costs and related production liabilities if payment is due within instrument relating to the effective overheads.
Net realisable value is the one year or less or in the normal portion of the hedge is recognised estimated selling price in the ordinary operating cycle of the business if directly against reserves.
The gain or course of business, less applicable longer.
If not, they are presented as loss relating to any ineffective portion is variable selling expenses.
recognised immediately in the income is made for obsolete, defective and slow Trade payables are recognised initially statement.
at fair value and subsequently measured Gains and losses accumulated in equity at amortised cost using the effective are included in the income statement interest method.
when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
indd 79 02 03 2011 02:37 Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 80 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued Borrowings Deferred income tax assets are actuarial gains or losses and past Borrowings are recognised initially recognised to the extent that it is service costs.
The defined benefit at fair value, net of transaction probable that future taxable profit will obligation is calculated annually costs incurred.
Borrowings are be available against which the by independent actuaries using subsequently stated at amortised cost.
temporary differences can be utilised.
the projected unit credit method.
Any difference between the amount The present value of the defined benefit Deferred income tax is provided on initially recognised net of transaction obligation is determined by discounting temporary differences arising on costs and the redemption value is the estimated future cash outflows investments in subsidiaries and recognised in the income statement using interest rates of high quality associates, except where the timing of over the period of the borrowings using corporate bonds that are denominated the reversal of the temporary difference the effective interest method.
in the currency in which the benefits will is controlled by the group and it is be paid, and that have terms to maturity Borrowing costs which are directly probable that the temporary difference approximating to the terms of the attributable to the acquisition, will not reverse in the foreseeable related pension liability.
construction or production of a future.
qualifying asset one that takes a Current and past service costs, to Deferred income tax assets and substantial period of time to get ready the extent they have vested, are liabilities are offset when there is a for use or sale are capitalised as part of recognised in operating costs in the legally enforceable right to offset the cost of that asset, until such time as Income Statement together with current tax assets against current tax the assets are ready for their intended interest costs on plan liabilities and the liabilities and when the deferred income use or sale.
expected return on plan assets.
taxes assets and liabilities relate to All other borrowing costs are income taxes levied by the same Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in the income statement in taxation authority on either the taxable arising from experience adjustments the period in which they are incurred.
entity or different taxable entities where and change in actuarial assumptions are there is an intention to settle the credited or charged to the statement of No borrowing costs were capitalised in balances on a net basis.
comprehensive income and expense net the year ended 31st December 2010. of deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income Borrowings are classified as non-current statement except to the extent that it For defined contribution plans, the liabilities where the group has an relates to items recognised directly in group pays contributions to publicly or unconditional right to defer settlement equity, in which case it is recognised in privately administered pension of the liability for at least 12 months equity.
insurance or trustee administered plans after the balance sheet date.
on a mandatory, contractual Employee benefits or voluntary basis.
The group has Current and deferred income tax a Pension obligations no further payment obligations once the The current income tax charge is The group operates various pension contributions have been paid.
calculated on the basis of the tax laws schemes.
The schemes are funded The contributions are recognised as enacted or substantively enacted at the through payments to insurance employee benefit expense when they balance sheet date in the countries companies or a trustee administered are due.
Prepaid contributions are where the groups subsidiaries operate fund, determined by periodic actuarial recognised as an asset to the extent and generate taxable income.
The group has both that a cash refund or a reduction in the Deferred income tax is recognised, defined benefit and defined contribution future payments is available.
using the liability method, on temporary plans.
A defined benefit plan is a b Share-based payment plans differences arising between the tax pension plan that defines an amount of The groups management awards bases of assets and liabilities and their pension benefit that an employee will employees share options, from time to carrying amounts in the consolidated receive on retirement, usually time, both on a discretionary and nonfinancial statements.
However, the dependent on one or more factors such discretionary basis which are subject to deferred income tax is not accounted as age, years of service and vesting conditions.
The economic cost for, if it arises from initial recognition of compensation.
A defined contribution of awarding the share options to its an asset or liability in a transaction other plan is a pension plan under which the employees is recognised as an than a business combination that at the group pays fixed contributions into a employee benefit expense in the income time of the transaction affects neither separate entity.
The group has no legal statement equivalent to the fair value of accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
or constructive obligations to pay the benefit awarded.
The fair value is Deferred income tax is determined further contributions if the fund does determined by reference to the Blackusing tax rates and laws that have not hold sufficient assets to pay all Scholes option pricing model, for those been enacted or substantively enacted employees the benefits relating to schemes which have no market-based by the balance sheet date and are employee service in the current and vesting conditions and the Monte-Carlo expected to apply when the related prior periods.
model for the awards under the deferred income tax asset is realised or The net liability recognised in the Performance Share Plan.
The charge is the deferred income tax liability is balance sheet in respect of defined recognised in the Income Statement settled.
benefit pension plans is the present over the vesting period of the award.
value of the defined benefit obligation The proceeds received are credited to at the balance sheet date less the fair share capital nominal value and share value of plan assets, together with premium when the options are adjustments for unrecognised exercised.
indd 80 02 03 2011 02:37 Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 81 c Termination benefits a Service income Leases where the lessor retains Termination benefits are payable when Income received or receivable in respect substantially all the risks and rewards of an employment is terminated before the of service income is credited to revenue ownership are classified as operating normal retirement date, or whenever an as and when services are rendered in leases.
Payments made under operating employee accepts voluntary respect of mats, linen, washroom and leases net of any incentives received redundancy in exchange for these decontamination services.
Revenue is from the lessor are charged to the benefits.
The group recognises recognised on a per item basis for income statement on a straight line termination benefits when it is shown to delivery of laundered textiles to hotels basis over the period of the lease.
be committed to either: terminating the and hospitals.
Revenue for supply and employment of current employees laundering of workwear is recognised Dividend distribution according to a detailed formal plan on a regular, periodic basis in Final dividend distribution to the without possibility of withdrawal: or accordance with the terms of the companys shareholders is recognised providing termination benefits as a contract.
as a liability in the groups financial result of an offer made to encourage statements in the period in which the b Sale of goods revenue voluntary redundancy.
dividends are approved by the For non-contract based business, companys shareholders.
Interim d Holiday pay revenue represents the value of goods dividends are recognised when paid.
Paid holidays are regarded as an delivered.
employee benefit and as such are Accrued income comprises revenue Income statement presentation charged to the Income Statement as the contractually earned for services a Exceptional items benefits are earned.
An accrual is made performed that are invoiced to the Items that are material in size and nonat the balance sheet date to reflect the customer primarily in the following operating in nature are presented as fair value of holidays earned but not yet month.
exceptional items in the income taken.
The directors are of the Leases opinion that the separate recording of Provisions Leases of property, plant and exceptional items provides helpful Provisions for vacant properties, equipment where the group has information about the groups restructuring costs and legal claims are substantially all the risks and rewards of underlying business performance.
recognised when the group has a ownership are classified as finance Examples of events, which may give rise present legal or constructive obligation leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at to the classification of items as as a result of past events and it is more the leases commencement at the lower exceptional include, inter alia, likely than not that an outflow of of the fair value of the leased property restructuring of businesses, gains and resources will be required to settle the and the present value of the minimum losses on disposal of properties, obligation: and the amount has been lease payments.
Each lease payment is acquisition costs, impairment of reliably estimated.
allocated between the liability and goodwill and non-recurring income.
A provision for onerous contracts is finance charges so as to achieve a b Amortisation of customer contracts recognised when the expected benefits constant rate on the finance balance These are presented separately in the to be derived by the group from a outstanding.
The corresponding lease income statement as they arise from contract are lower than the unavoidable obligations, net of finance charges, are acquisitions.
cost of meeting its obligations under the included in other long-term payables.
Provisions are discounted The interest element of the finance cost where material.
is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to produce a Revenue recognition constant periodic rate of interest on the Group revenue comprises the fair value remaining balance of the liability for for the rendering of services, net of each period.
Property, plant and value added tax and other similar sales equipment acquired under finance based taxes, rebates and discounts and leases are depreciated over the shorter after eliminating sales within the group.
of the assets useful life and the lease Revenue is recognised as follows: term.
