Notice of Annual General Meeting v the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under the Notice is hereby given that the fourth Annual General Meeting authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority of UK Commercial Property Trust Limited will be convened at which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 3QL on of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to 2 June 2011 at 10am for the following purposes.
Ordinary Resolutions To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as Notes: Ordinary Resolutions: 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, speak and vote 1.
To approve and adopt the Annual Report and Accounts of the instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Company for the year ended 31 December 2010.
To re-elect Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors to the Company until the 2.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each proxy is conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
To re-elect Mr Dorrian as a Director of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
To re-elect Mr Robertson as a Director of the Company.
should be completed and sent, together with the power of attorney or 6.
To re-elect Mr Wilson as a Director of the Company.
other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, so as to reach Computershare Investor Special Resolutions Services Jersey Limited, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as 6ZY, not later than 10 a. m. on 31 May 2011.
Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent a member 7.
That the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby generally from attending in person at the Meeting.
"If you have appointed a proxy empowered, to allot ordinary shares in the Company or grant rights and attend the meeting in person your proxy appointment will remain to subscribe for, or to convert securities into, ordinary shares in the valid and you may not vote at the meeting unless you have provided a Company ""equity securities"", including the grant of rights to hard copy notice to revoke the proxy to Computershare Investor Services subscribe for, or to convert securities into ordinary shares held by Jersey Limited, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY no less the Company as treasury shares for cash as if any pre-emption rights than 48 hours excluding any part of a day that is not a working day in relation to the issue of shares as set out in the listing rules made prior to the commencement of the meeting as set out above."
by the Financial Services Authority under part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended did not apply to any 5.
To have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting and also for the such allotment of equity securities, provided that this power: purposes of calculating how many votes a member may cast on a poll a member must first have his or her name entered on the register of a expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the members not later than 10 a. m. on 31 May 2011.
Changes to entries in Company after the passing of this resolution or on the expiry of 15 the register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the months from the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, rights of any member to attend and vote at such Meeting.
save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be 6.
The Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity for fifteen minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting and during the securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the meeting itself.
power conferred hereby had not expired: and 7.
Copies of the Articles of Association of the Company will be available b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities up to an for inspection during normal business hours on any day Saturdays, aggregate nominal value 30,969,850 being approximately Sundays and public holidays excepted until the close of the Annual 10 per cent of the nominal value of the issued share capital of the General Meeting at the registered office of the Company.
Company including treasury shares, as at 29 March 2011.
As at 29 March 2011, the latest practicable date prior to publication 8.
That the Company, be authorised in accordance with section 315 of of this document, the Company had 1,238,794,000 ordinary shares in The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended, the Law to issue with a total of 1,197,348,858 voting rights.
make market acquisitions within the meaning of section 316 I of the law of its own ordinary shares of 25p each shares either 9.
Any person holding 3% of the total voting rights in the Company who for retention as treasury shares for future resale of transfer or appoints a person other than the Chairman as his proxy will need to cancellation, provided that: ensure that both he and such third party complies with their respective i the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be acquired disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
shall be equal to 14.99 per cent of the Companys issued share capital on the date on which this resolution is passed: By order of the Board ii the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Northern Trust International Fund Share is 25p, being the nominal value per share: Administration iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Services Guernsey Limited Share is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the Secretary middle market quotations for a Share taken from the London Stock Trafalgar Court Exchanges Daily Official List for the five business days immediately Les Banques preceding the day on which the Share is purchased: St Peter Port iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2012 or, if Guernsey GY1 3QL earlier, on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of this Date 29 March 2011 resolution, unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 42
