Significant accounting policies continued The accounting policy descriptions set out the areas where judgement needs exercising, the most significant of which areasfollows: Valuation of investment property and investment property under development The Group uses the valuation performed by its independent valuers as the fair value of its investment properties.
The valuation is based upon assumptions including future rental income, anticipated operating costs, such as maintenance and energy and the appropriate discount rate.
The valuers also make reference to market evidence oftransaction prices for similar properties.
Valuations and current market conditions are discussed further in the BusinessReview.
Completed property, properties under development and inventories Completed property, properties under development and inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
However, the valuation of completed property and properties under development is disclosed in the notes to the financial statements and the same factors affecting investment properties as described above apply.
These properties are also valued by the independent valuers.
Trade and other receivables The Group is required to judge when there is sufficient objective evidence to require the impairment of individual trade and other receivables.
Classification of properties acquired All properties acquired that are intended for development as student accommodation have been classified as current assets since, in accordance with the Groups business model, it is intended to sell these assets at some stage after completion to the UNITE UK Student Accommodation Fund or another co-investment vehicle.
Taxation The preparation of the tax charge in the financial statements requires the Directors to make significant judgements around the outcome of challenges by HMRC of the tax treatment of certain of the Groups activities: where appropriate, the Directors seek advice from leading tax professionals and tax counsel in arriving at such judgements.
Co-investing vehicles The Directors exercise a significant degree of judgement in determining whether the contractual arrangements for control of certain of the Groups co-investing vehicles are such that the fall to be classified as joint ventures under IFRS.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
b Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are presently exercisable are taken into account.
The financial statements ofsubsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Joint ventures Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
The consolidated financial statements include joint ventures initially at cost subsequently increased or decreased by the Groups share of total recognised gains and losses of joint ventures on an equity basis.
Interest free joint venture investment loans are initially recorded at fair value: the difference between the nominal amount and fair value is treated as an investment in joint venture.
The implied discount is amortised over the contracted life of the investment.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains and losses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups retained interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except where the loss provides evidence of a reduction in the net realisable value of current assets oranimpairment in value of fixed assets.
Other Financial Governance Business Introduction statements information review
