Unite 52 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 notes to the financial statements 1.
Significant accounting policies The UNITE Group plc the Company is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
a Basis of preparation The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in jointly controlled entities.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
Both the parent company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRS.
On publishing the parent company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and relatednotes.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented inthese consolidated financial statements.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development and position are set out in the Business Review section on pages 16 to 21.
In addition, note 20 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
As a result of the disposal of assets into USAF towards the end of 2010 and cash expected to be generated from operating activities, the Groups forecast shows that there will be sufficient cash headroom for the foreseeable future.
The Group does not have any significant borrowing facilities expiring in 2011, a detailed breakdown of the maturity of borrowings is provided in note 15.
During the year, the Group has been successful in extending and restructuring 120 million of borrowings and the Group will continue negotiations with funders during 2011 to extend debt maturities.
The Group is in full compliance with its borrowing covenants at 31 December 2010 see note 20.
The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The financial statements have therefore been prepared on a going concern basis.
Measurement convention The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated attheir fair value: Investment property Investment property under development Financial assets and liabilities including interest rate swaps Land and buildings included in property, plant and equipment Accounting standards adopted The Group has not made any changes to its accounting policies during the year.
Impact of accounting standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 31December 2010 and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements.
None of these are expected to have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
The Group has not early adopted any standard, amendment or interpretation.
Significant judgements and estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income andexpenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors thatare believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ fromthese estimates.
