Unite 89 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 notice of Annual General Meeting nOtiCe iS HeReBY GiVen that the Annual General Meeting but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements of The UNITE Group plc the Company will be held at as the Directors consider expedient in relation to The Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JX at 9.30 a. m. on treasury shares, fractional entitlements, legal or 19 May 2011 for the purpose of considering and, if thought practical problems under the laws in any territory or fit, passing the following resolutions which, in the case of the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or resolutions numbered 1 to 13 inclusive, shall be proposed as stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever, ordinary resolutions and, in the case of resolutions numbered provided that this authority shall expire unless renewed, 14 and 15, shall be proposed as special resolutions.
varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting, on the date falling 15 months from the passing of this Ordinary business resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next 1.
To receive the audited annual accounts of the Company annual general meeting of the Company to be held for the year ended 31 December 2010, together with the following the passing of this Resolution, save that the Directors report and Auditors report on those accounts Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or and that section of the Remuneration report subject enter into an agreement which would or might require toaudit.
shares in the Company to be allotted or rights to 2.
To approve the Directors remuneration report for the subscribe for or convert securities into shares be granted year ended 31 December 2010. after such expiry and the Directors may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into 3.
To appoint Sir Tim Wilson as a Director of the Company.
shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired.
To re-appoint Mr P M White as a Director of the Company.
THAT, in accordance with Section 570 1 of the Act, 5.
To re-appoint Mr M C Allan as a Director of the Company.
the Directors be and are empowered to allot equity 6.
To re-appoint Mr J J Lister as a Director of the Company.
securities within the meaning of Section 560 1 of the Act pursuant to the general authority conferred on them 7.
To re-appoint Mr J M Tonkiss as a Director of the Company.
by Resolution 13 above as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power 8.
To re-appoint Mr N P Hall as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Mr S R H Beevor as a Director of the Company.
a to the allotment of equity securities in connection 10.
To re-appoint Mr R S Walker as a Director of the Company.
with an offer or issue to or in favour of ordinary shareholders on the register on a date fixed by the 11.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to hold office Directors where the equity securities respectively until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the attributable to the interests of all those shareholders Company at which accounts are laid.
are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the 12.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them of the auditors.
on that date, but the Directors may make such exclusions or other arrangements as they consider Special business expedient in relation to fractional entitlements, legal 13.
THAT, in substitution for any equivalent authorities and or practical problems under the laws in any territory or powers granted to the Directors prior to the passing of the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or this Resolution, the Directors be and are generally and stock exchange: and unconditionally authorised pursuant to Section 551 of b to the allotment other than under a above theCompanies Act 2006 the Act : of equity securities having a nominal value not a to exercise all powers of the Company to allot shares exceeding in aggregate 2,003,393 in the Company, and grant rights to subscribe for or and this authority shall expire on the date falling 15months to convert any security into shares of the Company, from the passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, at the up to an aggregate nominal amount of 13,355,955 conclusion of the next annual general meeting of such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount the Company to be held following the passing of this of any allotments or grants made under paragraph resolution, save that the Company may, before this b below in excess of 13,355,955 : and further authority expires, make an offer or agreement which b to allot equity securities as defined by Section 560 1 would or might require equity securities to be allotted of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount after it expires and the Directors may allot equity securities of 26,711,910 such amount to be reduced by the in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this authority nominal amount of any allotments or grants made had not expired and provided further that this authority under paragraph a above in connection with an shall supersede and revoke all previous authorities under offer by way of rights issue: Section 570 1 of the Act.
a in favour of holders of ordinary shares in the 15.
That a general meeting other than an annual general capital of the Company, where the equity meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear securities respectively attributable to the interests daysnotice.
of such holders are proportionate as nearly as practicable, to the respective number of ordinary By order of the Board shares in the capital of the Company held by them: and A D Reid Secretary b to holders of any other equity securities as Dated 2 March 2011 required by the rights of those securities or as Registered office: theDirectors otherwise consider necessary, The Core 40 St Thomas Street Bristol BS1 6JX Other Financial Governance Business Introduction statements information review Unite 90 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes 6.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 1.
A member of the Company who wishes to attend the sponsors, or voting service providers should note that meeting in person should arrive at the offices of the Euroclear does not make available special procedures in Company, The Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JX CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings in good time before the meeting, which will commence and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the at 9.30 a. m. In order to gain admittance to the meeting, input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of members may be required to produce their attendance the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST card, which is attached to the form of proxy enclosed member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored with this document, or otherwise prove their identity.
member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or voting service 2.
A member of the Company who is unable or does not provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to wish to attend the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the to exercise all or any of his her rights to attend and CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, to speak and vote on his her behalf at the meeting.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST Amember may appoint more than one proxy provided sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual different shares so a member must have more than concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and one share to be able to appoint more than one proxy.
Aproxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting to represent his her appointing 7.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy member.
Appointing a proxy will not prevent a member Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation from attending in person and voting at the meeting.
35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 Aproxy must vote in accordance with any instructions as amended.
given by the member by whom the proxy is appointed.
If you would like to submit your proxy vote via the internet, A form of proxy which may be used to make such you can do so by accessing our registrars website appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies www.
You will require the this notice.
You can only appoint a proxy using the control number, your unique PIN which will expire at procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the the end of the voting period and your Shareholder proxy form.
Reference Number SRN, printed on the proxy card, in 3.
To be valid, any form of proxy, and the original or duly order to log in and submit your proxy vote electronically.
certified copy of the power of attorney or other authority You can access this site from any internet enabled PC.
if any under which it is signed or authenticated, must be 9.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of received by hand or by post at Computershare Investor the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be 6ZY, no later than 9.30 a. m. on 17 May 2011. accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which 4.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies the names of the joint holders appear in the Companys through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service register of members in respect of the joint holding the may do so for the meeting and any adjournment s first-named being the most senior.
thereof by using the procedures described in the 10.
If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment in CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST respect of the same shares, the appointment received sponsored members, and those CREST members who last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their take precedence.
CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy 5.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made information rights a Nominated Person may, under using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate an agreement between him her and the shareholder CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclears appointed or to have someone else appointed as a specifications, and must contain the information required proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in voting rights.
order to be a valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys agent CREST ID 3RA50 by the latest 12.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to time for receipt of proxy appointments specified in note the appointment of proxies above does not apply to 3 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be Nominated Persons.
These rights can only be exercised taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp by shareholders of the Company.
applied to the message by the CREST Application Host 13.
Pursuant to Part 13 of the Companies Act 2006 and from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed 2001 as amended, the Company specifies that by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions only those shareholders registered in the register of to proxies appointed through CREST should be members of the Company at 5.00 p. m. two days before communicated to the appointee through other means.
the meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Any changes to the register of members after such time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote atthe meeting.
As at 2 March 2011 the Companys issued share capital 20.
In accordance with Section 338A of the Act, a member consists of 160,271,460 ordinary shares carrying one vote or members of the Company may provided that the each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company criteria set out in Section 338A 3 of the Act are met asat 2 March 2011 are 160,271,460. require the Company to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting a matter other than a 15.
You may not use any electronic address provided either proposed resolution which may properly be included in this notice of meeting or any related documents in the business of the meeting, provided that the matter including the proxy form to communicate with the is not defamatory of any person, frivolous or vexatious.
Company for any purposes other than those expressly A request may be in hard copy form or electronic form, stated.
must identify the matter to be included in the business, must be accompanied by a statement setting out the 16.
Members attending the meeting have the right to ask grounds for the request, must be authenticated by and, subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company the person or persons making it and must be received must cause to be answered, any questions relating to the by the Company not later than six weeks before the business being dealt with at the meeting.
meeting, or, if later, the time at which notice is given of 17.
The following information is available at www.
In the foregoing sentence, the terms hard group.
co. uk 1 the matters set out in this notice of Annual copy form, electronic form and authenticated bear General Meeting: 2 the total numbers of shares in the the respective meanings set out in the Act in relation to Company in respect of which members are entitled to a communication, or a document or information sent or exercise voting rights at the meeting: 3 the totals of the supplied, to a company.
voting rights that members are entitled to exercise at 21.
A member that is a company or other organisation not the meeting: and 4 members statements, members having a physical presence cannot attend in person resolutions and members matters of business received but can appoint someone to represent it.
This can be by the Company after the date on which notice of the done in one of two ways: either by the appointment of a meeting was given.
proxy as described in the notes above or of a corporate 18.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by representative.
Members considering the appointment of members of the Company under Section 527 of the a corporate representative should check their own legal Act, the Company may be required to publish on a position, the Companys Articles of Association and the website a statement setting out any matter relating to: relevant provisions of the Act.
a the audit of the Companys accounts including 22.
The following documents are available for inspection at the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that the registered office of the Company during the usual are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or business hours on any weekday Saturday, Sunday or b any circumstance connected with an auditor of public holidays excluded from the date of this notice the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and meeting at which annual accounts and reports were will also be available for inspection at the place of the laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Act.
The meeting from 9.15 a. m. on the day of the meeting until Company may not require the members requesting itsconclusion: any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where a copies of the Executive Directors service contracts the Company is required to place a statement on a with the Company and any of its subsidiary website under Section 527 of the Act, it must forward undertakings: and the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the b and letters of appointment of the Non-Executive website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Directors.
meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
In accordance with Section 338 of the Act, a member or members of the Company may provided that the criteria set out in Section 338 3 of the Act are met require the Company to give to members notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting, provided that: a the resolution must not be, if passed, ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise : and b the resolution must not be defamatory of any person, frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must be authenticated by the person or persons making it, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given and must be received by the Company not later than six weeks before the meeting, or, if later, the time at which notice is given of the meeting.
In the foregoing sentence, the terms hard copy form, electronic form and authenticated bear their respective meanings set out in the Act in relation to a communication, or a document or information sent or supplied, to a company.
Other Financial Governance Business Introduction statements information review
