Unite 54 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued iv Goodwill Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of an acquisition and the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary at the effective date of acquisition.
Goodwill onacquisitions is reported in the balance sheet as an intangible asset and is impairment tested annually.
The carrying amount of goodwill is assessed annually and written down to its recoverable amount.
The profit or loss on disposal of assets is calculated by reference to the carrying value at the date of disposal, including the attributable amount of goodwill which remains unimpaired.
c Financial instruments i Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially and subsequently at fair value, with mark to market movements recognised intheincome statement except where cash flow hedge accounting is applied see below.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate theswapat the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current credit worthiness of the swapcounterparties.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Mark to market movements on these derivatives are shown in the income statement and receipts and payments under the swaps are shown as interest in the segmental analysis in note 2 when arriving at Net Portfolio Contribution.
ii Hedge accounting for interest rate swaps Where an interest rate swap is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of an existing or highly probable forecast loan interest payment, the effective part of any valuation gain or loss on the swap instrument is recognised directly in equity in the hedging reserve.
The cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the incomestatement at the same time as the hedged transaction.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised in theincome statement immediately.
When a hedging instrument or hedge relationship is terminated but the hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer probable, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement immediately.
d Investment property Investment properties are those held to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both.
Investment properties are stated at fair value.
External, independent valuers, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification, value the portfolio every six months.
The fair values are based on the market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction where the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
The valuations are prepared by considering the aggregate of the net annual rents receivable from the properties and where relevant, associated costs.
Valuations reflect, where appropriate, the type of tenants actually in occupation or responsible for meeting lease commitments or likely to be in occupation after letting of vacant accommodation and the markets general perception of their credit worthiness: the allocation of maintenance and insurance responsibilities between lessor and lessee: and the remaining economic life of the property.
It has been assumed that whenever rent reviews or lease renewals are pending with anticipated reversionary increases, all notices and where appropriate counter notices have been served validly and within the appropriate time.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair value is recognised in the income statement.
Rental income is accounted for asdescribed in accounting policy o.
Investment properties held under operating leases are not included in assets.
The recognition of acquisitions and disposals of investment and other property occurs on unconditional exchange ofcontracts.
e Investment property under development Property that is being constructed or developed for future use as investment property is classified as investment property under development, whereas properties purchased with the intention of selling them to the UNITE UK Student Accommodation Fund are classified as property under development see i below.
Investment property under development is stated at fair value.
The fair values are on the same basis as those used for investment properties but including adjustments to remove the fair value of construction, which has yet to take place and making reasonable assumptions regarding expected rentals and costs.
