Unite 34 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2010 continued Auditors A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JX at 9.30 a. m. on 19May 2010.
Formal notice of the meeting is given on pages 89 to 91.
In addition to the ordinary business of the meeting, Resolution 13 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to grant the Directors authority to allot shares in the Company, and grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares ofthe Company, up to an aggregate of nominal value of 13,355,955 representing approximately one third of the issued share capital of the Company as at 2 March 2011.
In accordance with guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers, this resolution also grants the Directors authority to allot further equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 13,355,955, again representing approximately one third of the nominal value of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 2March 2011.
This additional authority may only be applied to fully pre-emptive rights issues.
Resolution 14 will be proposed as a special resolution to authorise the Directors to allot equity securities for cash other than in accordance with statutory pre-emption rights which require a company to offer all allotments for cash first to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings, in respect of the allotment of shares in connection with any rights issue or other issue by way of rights and otherwise up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,003,393 representing approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 2 March 2011.
The Board has no current intention of exercising either of the authorities conferred by the above resolutions.
Unless revoked, varied or extended, those authorities will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date following 15 months from the passing of the resolutions, whichever is the earlier.
The Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations, increased the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot be less than 14 clear days.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2010, shareholders authorised the calling of general meetings, other than an Annual General Meeting, on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Resolution 15 seeks the approval of shareholders to renew the authority to be able to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting, on 14 clear days notice.
The flexibility offered by Resolution 15 will be used where, taking into account the circumstances, the Directors consider this appropriate in relation to the business of the meeting and in the interests of the Company and shareholders as a whole.
The Company undertakes to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Shareholders Rights Regulations before calling a general meeting on 14 clear days notice.
If given, the approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
Disclosures The Companys share capital is made up of one class of ordinary shares, which carry no restrictions on transfer or voting rights other than as set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Details of those persons who have significant holdings of shares in the Company are set out on page 33 under the heading Substantial Interests in the share capital of the Company.
No holder of shares in the Company has any special rights with regard to the control of the Company, nor does the Company have an employee share scheme, shares in relation to which have rights with regard to the control of the Company.
There are no agreements known to the Company between holders of shares in the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights in relation to the Company.
The Company has no rules regarding the appointment and replacement of Directors or regarding the amendment to the Companys Articles of Association, save as set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Other than certain of the Groups banking facilities, there are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party that affect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Nor are there any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office oremployment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Details of proposals to be put to the Annual General Meeting in relation to the power of Directors to issue shares in the Company are set out above under the heading Annual General Meeting.
The Directors have no authority to buy-back theCompanys shares.
By order of the Board A D Reid Secretary 2 March 2011
