Unite 56 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued i Completed property, property under development and inventories Completed properties and properties under development are properties purchased with the intention of selling them to the UNITE UK Student Accommodation Fund following completion.
These properties and inventories are shown at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
Costs are arrived at in the same way as used for investment property under development see note e above.
Inventories include land held for development, which are sites purchased without planning permission.
Once planning permission is obtained the assets transfer to either property under development or investment property under development.
j Trade receivables and payables Trade receivables and payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost and discounted as appropriate.
k Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
l Share capital i Ordinary share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
External costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares, other than on a business combination, are shown as a deduction, net of tax, in equity from the proceeds.
Share issue costs incurred directly in connection with a business combination are deducted from the proceeds of the issue.
ii Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which they are declared.
m Interest bearing borrowings Interest bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
n Employee benefits i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
ii Share-based payment transactions The Groups share option schemes allow employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
For options with non-market vesting conditions the amount recognised as an expense is adjusted for the number of options that are expected to vest, no such adjustment is made for options with market based vesting conditions.
When the options are exercised, equity is increased by the amount of the proceeds received.
The Group funds the purchase of its own shares by the Employee share ownership trust to meet the obligations of the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and executive bonus scheme.
The purchases are shown as Own shares acquired in the retained earnings.
o Revenue i Rental income Rental income from investment and completed property leased out under operating leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of thetotal rental income and spread over the period to the first break clause or over the term of the lease where no break clause exists.
ii Management and promote fees Management and promote fees are recognised, in line with the management contracts, in the period to which they relate.
The Group can earn promote fees relative to criteria specified in the joint venture agreements.
iii Property sales In addition to development management fees, detailed above, income relating to the sale of trading properties isrecognised once contracts for sale have been unconditionally exchanged.
iv Manufacturing revenue Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
