Significant accounting policies continued Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair value is recognised in the income statement.
All costs directly associated with the purchase and construction of a property, and all subsequent qualifying expenditure iscapitalised.
Borrowing costs are capitalised if they are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs commences when the activities to prepare the asset are in progress and expenditures and borrowing costs are being incurred.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs continues until the assets are substantially ready for their intended use but stops if development activities are suspended.
If the resulting carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
The capitalisation rate is arrived at by reference to the actual rate payable on borrowings for development purposes or, with regard to that part of the development cost financed out of general borrowings, to the average rate.
During the year the average capitalisation rate used was 7.0% 2009: 6.7%.
f Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Other than land and buildings, property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation seebelow and impairment losses.
The cost of self constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
Land and buildings held in property, plant and equipment are stated at fair value.
The valuation has been carried out by an external, independent valuer, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification.
The fair values are based on the market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between awilling buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction where the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
ii Leased assets Leases under which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Property held under finance leases and leased out under operating leases is classified as investment property and carried atfair value see accounting policy d. iii Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Leasehold improvements Shorter of life of lease and economic life Fixtures and fittings 4 years Motor vehicles 4 years Plant and equipment 420 years Assets held under finance leases which do not transfer title of the assets to the Group at the end of the lease, are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful lives shown above and the term of the lease.
The residual value, if not insignificant, is reassessed annually.
g Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures The treatment of these investments in the Groups consolidated financial statements is set out in the basis of preparation section above.
In the financial statements of the Company, investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures are carried at fair value with movements in fair value being recognised directly in equity.
h Intangible assets Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement as an expense incurred.
Expenditure on development activities is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development.
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
The Groups development costs relate to designs and processes at the Groups manufacturing facility.
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairmentlosses.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from the date they are available for use over the following periods: Development cost 45 years Computer software 45 years Other Financial Governance Business Introduction statements information review
