Significant accounting policies continued p Expenses i Lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Where the property interest under an operating lease is classified as an investment property, the property interest is accounted for as if it were a finance lease and the fair value model is used for the asset recognised.
ii Net financing costs Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings less interest receivable on funds invested both calculated using the effective interest rate method and gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement refer accounting policy c. q Income tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly to equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The deferred tax provision in respect of property assets is calculated on the basis that assets will not be held indefinitely and therefore takes account of available indexation.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Other Financial Governance Business Introduction statements information review
