Unite 92 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Glossary Adjusted, fully diluted net asset value per share Net Initial Yield NIY or Yield Adjusted NAV The net operating income generated by a property expressed as a percentage of its value.
The basic NAV per share figure is recalculated to take account of dilutive outstanding share options and adjusted to: Basis points bps exclude the impact of deferred tax: A basis point is a term used to describe a small percentage, usually in the context of a change, and equates to 0.01%.
exclude the mark to market of interest rate swaps: Net rental growth include the valuation gain not recognised on The annual growth in net operating income less costs from properties held at cost.
a property measured on a like-for-like basis i. e. excluding impact ofcompletion and disposals.
Adjusted net debt The Groups debt, net of cash and unamortised debt raising Minimum net worth costs, excluding the mark to market of interest rates swaps.
Minimum net worth covenant measures the value of the Company against an absolute target.
Adjusted net debt to property assets The adjusted net debt as a percentage of the value of OCB theproperties.
UNITE successfully established a joint venture with Oasis Capital Bank OCB in August 2009.
The joint venture Adjusted gearing consists of three assets located in London, all of which were Adjusted net debt as a percentage of adjusted net assets.
Net operating income NOI UCC The rental income from completed properties less those UNITE Capital Cities was established in 2005 as a joint venture operating costs directly related to the property, hence between UNITE and GIC Real Estate.
It is a closed-ended excluding central overhead.
vehicle due to mature in 2013 and was established by UNITE Net portfolio contribution NPC to develop and operate student accommodation in London This is an important indicator of operational performance and Edinburgh.
UCC equity is now fully invested and all as it measures the income from the completed properties, development projects have been completed.
net of their financing costs and the Groups total nonUSAF the Fund development related overheads.
The UNITE UK Student Accommodation Fund USAF is Adjusted profit Europes largest fund that purely focuses on direct let student Adjusted profit is prepared on the basis recommended for real accommodation investment assets.
The Fund is an open estate companies by EPRA, the European Public Real Estate ended infinite life vehicle which has unique buying access Association, except for profits and losses on trading properties toUNITEs portfolio.
UNITE act as Fund Manager of the Fund, see note 2 a for details.
This excludes movements relating as well as owning a significant minority stake.
to changes in values of investment properties and interest USV rate swaps, profits ondisposal of investment properties but UNITE Student Village was established in 2004 as a joint venture not trading properties and the related tax effects.
between UNITE and Lehman Brothers to develop large student Adjusted earnings per share village schemes of c. 1,000 bed spaces.
It is a closed-ended The diluted earnings per share based on adjusted profit.
fund with one remaining operational asset located in Sheffield.
Total income from managed portfolio Stabilising assets This measure indicates the overall scale of the property portfolio Properties that have recently been developed and are not that the Group manages, it comprises rental and related yet generating their optimal net operating income.
income, totalling 188.9 million from properties owned by: Non-core assets m Properties which do not fit with the Groups long-term investment strategy, either because of their location or because they 46.3 The Group are let to universities under long-term agreements.
Third parties and leased by the Group 18.6 USAF 91.7 Unite letting arrangements Direct Let UCC 23.6 Properties where short-hold tenancy agreements are made USV 5.4 directly between the commercial operator and the student.
OCB 3.3 Lease The Groups share of this gross income is shown in note 2 c. Properties which are leased to universities for a number of years and have no UNITE management presence.
Gross financing costs This includes all interest paid by the Group, including those Nominations capitalised into developments and operating lease rentals.
Properties where short-hold tenancy agreements are made It includes all receipts and payments under interest rate with students, with the university providing a longer term swaps whether they are effective or ineffective under IFRS occupancy guarantee in respect of a significant proportion aseconomically they all hedge interest rate exposures.
Financing costs Sale and lease back Gross financing costs net of interest capitalised into Properties which have been sold to a third party investor developments and interest received on deposits.
then leased back to the Company.
UNITE are responsible for the management of these assets on behalf of the owner.
Interest cover ratio ICR The interest cover ratio is the income generated by a property as a multiple of the interest charge on the debt secured on the property.
