58 | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Financial reporting A comprehensive budgeting and real-time forecasting system, covering both profit and cash, operates within the Group.
This enables executive management to view key financial and operating data on a daily basis.
On a weekly and monthly basis more formal reporting up to the Group Executives and the Board is prepared.
The results of all operating units are reported monthly and compared to budget and forecast.
Policies and procedures Policies and procedures, including operating and financial controls, are detailed in policies and procedures manuals that are refreshed and improved as appropriate.
Training to staff is given where necessary.
Central functions Where appropriate, strong central functions, such as Group Legal, Group Health & Safety and Company Secretarial, provide support and consistency to the rest of the Group.
In addition, the principal treasury-related risks, decisions and control processes are managed by the Group Finance function, under the direction of the Group Finance Director.
Investment and contracting controls The Group has clearly defined guidelines for the purchase and sale of land within the Group, which include detailed environmental, planning and financial appraisal and are subject to executive authorisation.
Rigorous procedures are also followed for the selection of consultants and contractors.
The review and monitoring of all build programmes and budgets are a fundamental element of the Companys financial reporting cycle.
Internal audit Internal auditors are in place in each division and at Group to provide assurance on the operation of the Groups control framework.
Whistleblowing The Group has a whistleblowing policy which has been communicated to all staff, where Directors, management and staff can report in confidence any concerns they may have of malpractice, financial irregularity, breaches of any Group procedures, or other matters.
Relations with shareholders The Company encourages active dialogue with its current and prospective shareholders through ongoing meetings with institutional investors.
Major shareholders have the opportunity to meet all Directors after the Annual General Meeting in addition to individual meetings with the Company.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with the Companys activities through the Annual and Interim Reports.
In addition, the corporate website gives information on the Group and latest news, including regulatory announcements.
The presentations made after the announcement of the preliminary and interim results are also available on the website.
The Board is kept informed of the views of the shareholders through periodic reports from the Companys broker UBS.
Additionally, the Nonexecutive Directors have the opportunity to attend the bi-annual analyst presentations.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns where contact through the normal channels has failed or when such contact is inappropriate.
Annual General Meeting All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual General Meeting where the Group Chairman, the Group Managing Director and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer questions and will also be available for discussions with shareholders both prior to and after the meeting.
The Company arranges for the Annual Report and Accounts and related papers to be posted to shareholders so as to allow at least 20 working days for consideration prior to the Annual General Meeting.
The Company complies with the provisions of the Combined Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, which, including abstentions, are declared at the Annual General Meeting after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands and are announced to the Stock Exchange shortly after the close of the meeting.
The Company also complies with the requirements of the Combined Code with the separation of resolutions and the attendance of the Chairmen of the Board Committees.
The terms and conditions of appointment for the Non-executive Directors, which set out their expected time commitment, in addition to the service contracts for the Executive Directors, are available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting and during normal business hours at the Companys registered office.
Going concern The Groups business activities together with the factors likely to affect its future development performance and position are set out above in the Business Review.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are all described in the Trading and Financial review on pages 22 to 27.
The Group has significant financial resources and the Directors have assessed the future funding requirements of the Group and compared this to the level of committed loan facilities and cash resources over the medium term.
In making this assessment consideration has been given to the uncertainty inherent in future financial forecasts and where applicable reasonable sensitivities have been applied to the key factors affecting the financial performance of the Group.
