B BUSINESS REVIEW USINESS REVIEW B BU USINESS REVIEW | SINESS REVIEW | T TRADING AND FIN RADING AND FINA ANCIAL REVIEW NCIAL REVIEW | | 27 27 BERKELEYS PRINCIPAL OPERATING RISKS MITIGATION ISSUE RISK Continuous assessment undertaken of economic MACRO Employment levels and the overall feel-good factor conditions and the marketplace to ensure that the ECONOMIC within the UK economy have a direct impact on the business is structured accordingly.
Business strategy regularly reviewed to ensure that it matches the prevailing market conditions.
Board level Sustainability Health & Safety Committee SUSTAINABILITY Urban regeneration has a significant impact on the built has the responsibility of setting the direction of the environment and the communities in which it occurs.
Groups strategy and ensuring it is aligned with business Sustainability issues are an integral component of the objectives.
This committee meets twice a year with external risks listed here, as failure to address sustainability consultants also attending.
issues can affect our ability to acquire land, gain planning permission, manage sites effectively and respond to increasing customer demand for sustainable homes.
For more details of how these risks are managed, please see our Sustainability Report.
Board level Sustainability Health & Safety Committee has HEALTH & Site accidents or site-related catastrophes, including the responsibility of setting the direction of the Groups SAFETY fire and flood can result in serious injury or loss of life.
Dedicated Health & Safety teams in place at each The inability to attract the best staff, business division and at Group, with procedures, training and interruption and reputational damage are all additional reporting all regularly reviewed to ensure high potential consequences.
Comprehensive accident investigation procedures in place.
A detailed review of the product is undertaken throughout PRODUCT Berkeley has a reputation for the quality of its product.
the build process by experienced personnel.
QUALITY If this is not maintained, it would expose the Group to Local director sign off of units undertaken before serving reputational damage, as well as the additional cost of notice of legal completion.
Each land acquisition subject to formal appraisal and LAND Inability to source suitable land to maintain land bank at approval process.
AVAILABILITY appropriate margins in a highly competitive market.
Schedule of all land holdings submitted monthly as part of key management information.
Full detailed planning assessment and risk assessment in PLANNING Delays or refusals in obtaining commercially viable place for each site without planning permission in place.
planning permissions on the Groups land holdings that Planning status of all sites reviewed at monthly divisional meet its investment return criteria.
board meetings and bi-monthly Main Board meetings.
Detailed market assessment undertaken of each site SALES Matching supply to demand in terms of product, location before acquisition, as well as ongoing reviews throughout PRICE and price are key success factors for Berkeleys business.
the duration of the site to ensure supply is matched to VOLUME Incorrect assessments can result in missed sales targets demand.
and or inefficient levels of completed stock.
Overall mix of product throughout the Group reviewed on a regular basis, as well as stock levels.
Forward sales are used to take the risk out of the development cycle where possible.
Manage financial risk through matching production closely MORTGAGES The ability for customers to secure sufficient mortgage to demand and retain prudent approach to cash and finance remains constrained by banks lending criteria gearing.
and mortgage valuations not reflecting market value.
Work with customers through the completion process.
This continues to be a restriction on transaction levels and forward sales.
Procurement strategy for each development agreed by BUILD In what is a competitive marketplace, build costs are divisional board before site acquisition.
COST affected by the availability of skilled labour and the Build cost reconciliations and build programme dates are PROGRAMME price and availability of materials.
These factors and the presented and reviewed in detail each month.
relationship with, and performance of, the contractors used by the Group impact on both build cost and programme.
Remuneration packages constantly reviewed to ensure they PEOPLE The Groups success is highly dependent upon its are competitive.
ability to attract and retain the best people working Succession planning regularly reviewed at divisional and in the industry.
Failure to consider the succession of Main Board level.
key management could result in lost experience and Close relationships and dialoge with key personnel.
Effects of changes to planning policies at all levels closely GOVERNMENT Changes to Government policy on housing at both monitored, and representations made where necessary.
POLICY national and local level, including planning, affordable housing requirements and planning gain obligations all impact on the Groups business.
BERKELEY | ANNUAL REPORT 2010 ANNU ANNUAL REP AL REPOR ORT T 2010 | 2010 | BERKELEY BERKELEY
