56 | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED No Executive Director has a service contract with a notice period in excess of one year or with provisions for predetermined compensation on termination.
The terms of appointment for the Non-executive Directors are renewable annually on 1 May with one months written notice and are subject to the re-election provisions of the Articles of Association.
The Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys share incentive or bonus plans.
A minimum shareholding requirement is set for all Directors.
The Articles of Association of the Company include the requirement for Directors to submit themselves to shareholders for re-election every three years, in accordance with the Combined Code.
In addition, all Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
Directors remuneration The principles and details of Directors remuneration are contained in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 43 to 54.
Board evaluation A review of the operation of the Board, its committees and the skills of the Directors was undertaken during the year.
The process was led by the Chairman.
All Directors completed the wide-ranging appraisal questionnaire and the results were reviewed by the Board.
The process confirmed the ongoing effectiveness of the Board.
Board committees The Board has delegated certain matters to individual Executives and to specific committees of the Board.
The responsibilities of the key Board committees are described below.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee meets monthly and reviews the financial and operating performance of all Group divisions and companies.
The Group Chairman chairs this Committee and other members comprise Messrs. Tony Carey, Greg Fry, Rob Perrins, Nick Simpkin and Karl Whiteman.
The following three Board committees operate within clearly defined Terms of Reference pursuant to the provisions of the Combined Code.
The Terms of Reference can be downloaded from the section dealing with Investor Relations on the Berkeley website www.
Copies are also available to shareholders on application to the Company Secretary.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr David Howell, FCA, and the other members are Mr Alan Coppin and Mrs Victoria Mitchell.
The Group Finance Director and representatives of the external and internal auditors also attend the Committees meetings by invitation.
The Committee met formally on three occasions during the year to 30 April 2010 with no absences.
Mr David Howell, who qualified as a chartered accountant in 1971 and was the Chief Financial Officer and a Main Board Director of lastminute.
com plc until March 2005 is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Mr David Howell was also Chairman of the Audit Committee of Nestor Healthcare Group plc from 2000 to 2003.
The Committee has formal Terms of Reference which set out its role and the authority delegated to it by the Board.
The Audit Committee plays an important role in Corporate Governance by undertaking the following key responsibilities, all of which were performed during the year: monitoring the integrity of the financial reporting of the Company, including its annual and interim reports and other formal announcements relating to financial performance: reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems and disclosure of statements concerning these in the Annual Report: monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, reviewing the scope of the Groups internal audit programme and considering the findings and recommendations of the reports produced from this programme: and overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, including appointment, removal and fees, and ensuring the auditors independence and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committee has a policy on the use of the auditors for non-audit services in order to safeguard auditor independence, with a predetermined limit above which approval of the Audit Committee is required and identifies certain areas of work from which the auditors are precluded.
Tax and due diligence services are provided by a small number of different firms, including the Groups auditors.
The auditors may be used for such services where their knowledge of the business is such that they are deemed the most appropriate supplier.
Notwithstanding these safeguards, all non-audit work carried out by the auditors is notified to the Audit Committee Chairman on an ongoing basis and formally reported to the Audit Committee at each meeting.
The auditors have open recourse to the Non-executive Directors, should they consider it necessary, and there is open dialogue between the auditors and the Chairman of the Audit Committee before each Audit Committee meeting and, after the meeting, the opportunity to meet without the Executive Directors present.
