46 | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT | GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Bonus performance criteria Group performance condition The Group annual bonus target for 2009 10, as approved by shareholders in April 2009, required the Company to be on target to make payments equivalent to 3 per share through the Value Delivery Methods, being either through: Additional Land Expenditure: Dividends: Share buy-backs by the Company or the Company Employee Benefit Trust on behalf of the Company to satisfy the 2004 b LTIP awards : or A combination of the above, by April 2011, or to have generated an equivalent amount of cash.
For the purposes of this target, Additional Land Expenditure is defined as expenditure on land over and above the cost of land that has been expensed through the income statement which is approximated at 13.1%.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that for 2009 10 the Company had achieved this target and therefore the Group performance condition had been satisfied.
Divisional PBT performance condition The divisional PBT targets are set at the beginning of the financial year at a level which is challenging taking into account the potential level of bonus payments, the market, development availability and other relevant issues.
The Remuneration Committee confirms that the annual bonus payments set out within this report for the Divisional Executive Directors are appropriate taking into account the level of profit achieved and the targets set at the beginning of the year ended 30 April 2010.
Year ending 30 April 2011 The Berkeley Group Holdings plc Annual Bonus Plan the New Bonus Plan Background The Remuneration Committee took into account the following specific factors when designing the New Bonus Plan for Executives, which will first be operated for the year ending 30 April 2011: the existing bonus arrangements are a legacy of the Scheme of Arrangement period which saw 9 per share returned to shareholders.
It was the opinion of the Remuneration Committee that a new incentive arrangement should be implemented which is clearly aligned to the Companys current strategy of investing in land and its developments, and no longer aligned to the Scheme of Arrangement: while the existing bonus plan runs until 2011, a new incentive arrangement should be implemented from 2010 11 because the Committee believed it was now appropriate to put in place a new arrangement more clearly supportive of the current strategy: a desire by the Committee to ensure that the incentive arrangements operated by the Company are supportive of the risk profile for the business determined by the Board and that these arrangements support the long-term sustainable performance of the Company: and that any new annual bonus arrangements should encourage a sustainable level of performance through ensuring bonuses earned in respect of a particular financial year are at risk of future years performance through risk adjustment and claw back mechanisms.
Overview of the New Bonus Plan At the beginning of the plan period of five financial years, participants will have a plan account to which Company contributions will be made.
No Company contribution will be made to a participants plan account unless the annual performance criteria are met.
The Company contribution will be set annually as a percentage of salary for each Executive.
There will be two types of performance condition, Group and Divisional.
The Group performance condition will be a matrix of Return on Equity ROE and Land Bank Growth.
The Divisional performance condition will be based upon Divisional Profit before Tax PBT.
The Remuneration Committee will set: the performance levels including minimum performance thresholds for the performance conditions for each plan year: and the maximum annual Company contribution for each participant for the plan year.
The Remuneration Committee will set these levels having regard to the strategy of the Company.
These criteria will be disclosed in full in the relevant Remuneration Committee report along with the annual contributions earned and deferred balances for each participant.
Where the minimum threshold performance criteria on both measures are not achieved, 50% of the deferred balance in a participants plan account will be forfeited.
Participants will be entitled to an annual payment of 50% of their plan account at the end of each financial year.
All balances will be deferred in shares or notional shares.
At the end of the five year plan period 100% of the balance of participants accounts will be paid.
