GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT | 47 Key features of the New Bonus Plan The Remuneration Committee designed the New Bonus Plan based on the following rationale: Two targets the Remuneration Committee felt that the dynamic tension between operating a return based measure ROE and a value based measure Land Bank Growth should ensure that there was a balance between incentivising the Executives to provide a sustainable ongoing level of return to shareholders whilst ensuring the long-term sustainability of the Company.
In the Remuneration Committees opinion the impact of these two measures over the five year plan period should incentivise the Executives to ensure the creation of long-term shareholder value as follows: the New Bonus Plan incentivises the delivery of increased profits in order to achieve ROE at the same time as growing the land bank.
It should be noted that the ROE will be set from a challenging base as the Company has not taken any land write downs as is the case with the majority of its competitors: ROE is a compound measure and therefore if shareholder funds are reinvested and not paid as dividends, earnings growth will be compounded to achieve the targets: the fact that the New Bonus Plan targets also include growth in the land bank value, means that Executives are encouraged to acquire land in the current market on favourable terms as well as maximise sustainable profit growth: the cash target in the current bonus plan has the potential to restrict value creation.
Longer term, ROE is aligned to shareholders interests and if the Company raises further equity in the future, the investment decision is clearly set out: and ROE as a measure highlights the inefficiency of retaining surplus cash on the balance sheet.
In order to deliver the targeted level of returns, this will encourage the Company to invest or return cash to shareholders.
Level of targets the Remuneration Committee wishes to incentivise the Executives to achieve a good level of returns to shareholders whilst ensuring the long-term sustainability of the Company.
Therefore the targets set have to take into account an appropriate level of risk.
It is not in the interests of any of the stakeholders in the Company to set targets that encourage a level of risk inconsistent with the agreed risk profile for the Company.
The New Bonus Plan allows a close tailoring by the Remuneration Committee of the performance conditions to the budget and performance of the Company for each financial year.
The Remuneration Committee when setting the annual performance requirements is currently targeting an average over the full five years of ROE of 12.5% p. a. and average Land Bank Growth of 10% p. a. : although there is likely to be annual variability in the performance requirements actually set to reflect the environment at that time see performance targets for 2010 11 operation of the plan set out below.
The New Bonus Plan performance requirements will be set and reviewed each year by the Remuneration Committee to ensure that they are appropriate to the current market conditions and position of the Company, so that they continue to remain challenging.
Level of awards the proposed maximum award bonus potential is 300% of salary: however, because 50% of the balance on the plan account is deferred, the actual annual payment profile, based on, for these illustrative purposes, maximum awards each year and 100% satisfaction of both performance conditions, would be: Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 150% 225% 262.5% 281% 581% Risk adjustment there is a risk adjustment mechanism built into the operation of the New Bonus Plan with a claw back of contributions if the threshold levels of ROE and Land Bank Growth are not met for any financial year during the five years of operation of the New Bonus Plan.
This adjustment mechanism ensures: performance must be maintained over the five years of operation of the New Bonus Plan or the value in the participants plan account will not increase: and if there is a material deterioration in performance there is a claw back of 50% of the balance of the participants account.
Alignment of interests there is a real alignment of participants interests with shareholders: shareholders receive a minimum level of performance prior to any incentive payments to Executives: Executives are encouraged to maximise consistent levels of performance or lose through the risk adjustment mechanism : and there is a long-term alignment with the interests of shareholders as the deferred elements of the New Bonus Plan are in shares or notional shares.
Operation of the New Bonus Plan for the year ending 30 April 2011 The bonus payable to each of the Group Chairman, Group Managing Director and Group Finance Director will be determined by reference to the Group performance condition.
For the Divisional Directors, 50% of the potential bonus payable will be determined by reference to the Group performance condition and 50% by reference to the Divisional PBT performance condition.
The targeted maximum bonus potential for the year ending 30 April 2011 has been set by the Remuneration Committee at 300% for the Group Chairman and Group Managing Director.
The targeted maximum bonus potential for all other Executive Directors has been set at varying levels, ranging between 175% and 220%.
