FINANACIALS FINANCIALS | NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 65 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies General Information The Berkeley Group Holdings plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is Berkeley House, 19 Portsmouth Road, Cobham, Surrey, KT11 1JG.
The Company and its subsidiaries together the Group are engaged in residential led, mixed-use property development.
Further information about the nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Directors Report on page 40.
Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and on the going concern basis.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the assets.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed on page 68.
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the financial year ended 30 April 2010, but have had no impact on the consolidated financial statements: IFRS 2 Amendment Share-based payment: IFRS 7 Amendment Financial Instruments: Disclosures: IAS 23 Amendment Borrowing costs: IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements: IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes relating to IAS 18 Revenue IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction: and IFRIC 15 Agreements for the construction of real estate.
The adoption of the following new standards has had an impact on the consolidated financial statements as follows: IAS 1 Revised Presentation of financial statements.
The most significant change within IAS 1 Revised is the requirement to produce a statement of comprehensive income setting out all items of income and expense relating to non-owner changes in equity.
The Group has elected to present two separate statements comprising an income statement and a statement of comprehensive income.
In addition, the statement of changes in equity is now presented as a primary statement whereas previously it was disclosed as a note to the financial statements.
This standard requires the disclosure of segment information on the same basis as the management information presented to the chief operating decision maker.
Under the new standard, the Group has one reportable operating segment.
Previously segmental information was reported for commercial units sold as part of mixed-use developments.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued, but are not effective for the financial year ended 30 April 2010 and have not been adopted early: IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation effective 1 July 2009 : IFRIC 17 Distribution of non-cash assets to owners effective 1 July 2009 : IFRIC 18 Transfer of assets from customers effective 31 October 2009 : IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments effective 1 July 2010 : IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and separate financial statements effective 1 July 2009 : IFRS 3 Revised Business combinations effective 1 July 2009 : IAS 38 Amendment Intangible assets effective 1 July 2009 : IFRS 5 Amendment Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations effective 1 January 2010 : IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of financial statements effective 1 January 2010 : IAS 24 Amendment Related party disclosures effective 1 January 2011 : IFRS 2 Amendment Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions effective 1 January 2010 : and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2013.
These standards are not expected to have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Basis of consolidation a Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the parent company and all its subsidiary undertakings.
The accounting date for subsidiary undertakings is 30 April.
In the case of acquisitions or disposals, the Groups result includes that proportion from or to the effective date of acquisition or disposal as appropriate.
Subsidiary undertakings are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain the benefits from its activities.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | BERKELEY 66 | NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiary undertakings are changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
b Minority interests Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minoritys share of changes in the equity since the date of the combination.
c Joint ventures Entities which are jointly controlled with another party or parties joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The results attributable to the Groups holding in joint ventures are shown separately in the consolidated income statement.
The amount included in the consolidated balance sheet is the Groups share of the net assets of the joint ventures plus net loans receivable.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of joint ventures is accounted for in accordance with the policy set out above.
The carrying value of goodwill is included in the carrying value of the investment in joint ventures.
Revenue Revenue represents the amounts receivable from the sale of properties during the year and other income directly associated with property development.
Properties are treated as sold and profits are recognised when contracts are exchanged and the building work is physically complete.
Segmental reporting Operating segments are identified in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The Group determines its reportable segments having regard to permitted aggregation criteria with the principal condition being that the operating segments should have similar economic characteristics.
Expenditure Net operating expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
Expenditure recorded in inventory is expensed through cost of sales at the time of the related property sale.
Taxation The taxation expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
Current tax, including UK corporation tax, is provided at the amounts expected to be paid or received using the tax rules and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill, or from the initial recognition except in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit, or from differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred taxation is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
The carrying value of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available against which taxable temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred taxation is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to reserves, in which case the deferred taxation is also dealt with in reserves.
Intangible assets a Goodwill Where the cost of acquiring new and additional interests in subsidiaries, joint ventures and businesses exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired, the resulting premium on acquisition goodwill is capitalised and its subsequent measurement is based on annual impairment reviews or where an impairment indicator exists, with any impairment losses recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Goodwill written off to reserves prior to 1998 under UK GAAP was not reinstated on transition to IFRS and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
b Other intangible assets Other intangible assets, which include customer contracts, have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Other intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
BERKELEY | ANNUAL REPORT 2010 FINANACIALS FINANCIALS | NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 67 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at historic purchase cost less depreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of the assets on a straight line basis to their residual value over their estimated useful lives at the following annual rates: Freehold property 2% Fixtures and fittings 15% 20% 1 Motor vehicles 25% Computer equipment 33 3% Computer equipment is included within fixtures and fittings.
The assets residual values, carrying values and useful lives are reviewed on an annual basis and adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
Where an impairment is identified, the recoverable amount of the asset is identified and an impairment loss, where appropriate, is recognised in the income statement.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amounts or recognised as separate assets, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within net operating expenses in the income statement.
Inventories Property in the course of development and completed units are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Direct cost comprises the cost of land, raw materials and development costs but excludes indirect overheads.
Provision is made, where appropriate, to reduce the value of inventories and work in progress to their net realisable value.
Land purchased for development, including land in the course of development, is initially recorded at fair value.
Where such land is purchased on deferred settlement terms, and the fair value differs from the amount that will subsequently be paid in settling the liability, this difference is charged as a finance cost in the income statement over the period to settlement.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within net operating expenses.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to net operating expenses in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances in hand and at the bank, including bank overdrafts repayable on demand which form part of the Groups cash management, for which offset arrangements across Group businesses have been applied where appropriate.
Share capital Ordinary shares and redeemable preference shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value which is considered to be their fair value.
Trade payables on extended terms are recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of the asset to which they relate.
The discount to nominal value is amortised over the period of the credit term and charged to finance costs.
Deposits New property deposits and on account contract receipts are held within current trade and other payables.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | BERKELEY 68 | NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued Employee benefits a Pensions The Group accounts for pensions under IAS 19 Employee benefits.
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
The defined benefit plan was closed to future accrual with effect from 1 April 2007.
For the defined benefit scheme, the obligations are measured using the projected unit method.
The calculation of the net obligation is performed by a qualified actuary.
The operating and financing costs of these plans are recognised separately in the income statement: service costs are set annually on the basis of actuarial valuations of the scheme and financing costs are recognised in the period in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income and expense.
In accordance with IAS 19 the Group does not recognise on the balance sheet any surplus in the scheme.
Pension contributions under defined contribution schemes are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
b Share-based payments The Company operates two equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
Leasing agreements Payments under operating lease agreements are charged against profit on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
Accounting estimates and judgements Management applies the Groups accounting policies as described above when making critical accounting judgements, of which no individual judgement is deemed to have a significant impact upon the financial statements, apart from those involving estimations, which are detailed below.
a Carrying value of land and work in progress and estimation of costs to complete The Group holds inventories stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Such inventories include land, work in progress and completed units.
As residential development is largely speculative by nature, not all inventories are covered by forward sales contracts.
Furthermore due to the nature of the Groups activity and, in particular the scale of its developments and the length of the development cycle, the Group has to allocate site-wide development costs between units being built and or completed in the current year and those for future years.
It also has to forecast the costs to complete on such developments.
In making such assessments and allocations, there is a degree of inherent estimation uncertainty.
The Group has established internal controls designed to effectively assess and centrally review inventory carrying values and ensure the appropriateness of the estimates made.
b Pensions Pension assumptions are set out within note 5 and are as advised by the Groups actuary.
The assumptions include the expected long-term rate of return on assets, the discount rate used and the mortality rates.
Such estimations are based on assumed rates and, should these differ from what actually transpires, the pension asset of the Group would change.
c Goodwill impairment In determining whether or not goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires an estimate of the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit, the future growth rate of revenue and costs, and a suitable discount rate.
d Deferred tax Assumptions are made as to the recoverability of deferred tax assets, especially as to whether there will be sufficient future profits to fully utilise these in future years.
