GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | 59 The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Share capital structure Information relating to the Companys share capital structure is included in the Directors Report on page 40.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether IFRS as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively: and prepare financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Directors Report confirm that, to the best of each persons knowledge: a. the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: and b. the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board R J Stearn Company Secretary 27 July 2010 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | BERKELEY
