FINANACIALS FINANCIALS | NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 87 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, where applicable, and applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and on the going concern basis.
A summary of the significant accounting policies is set out below.
The principal activity of The Berkeley Group Holdings plc the Company is to act as a holding company.
The Company has not presented its own profit and loss account as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has not presented its own statement of recognised gains and losses for the year as there are no separate gains or losses arising in the year.
Under Financial Reporting Standard 1 Cash Flow Statements Revised 1996, the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that its consolidated financial statements, which include the Company, are publicly available.
Adoption of new Accounting Standards and pronouncements The Company has adopted the following amendments to Financial Reporting Standards: FRS 20 Amendment Share-based payment The adoption of this amendment to Financial Reporting Standards has had no impact on the financial statements of the Company.
Expenditure Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
Pensions Pension contributions under defined contribution schemes are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings are included in the balance sheet at cost less provision for any impairment.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
A net deferred tax asset is recognised as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis.
Share-based payments The Company operates two equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the profit and loss account, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
