FINANACIALS FINANCIALS | NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 65 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies General Information The Berkeley Group Holdings plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is Berkeley House, 19 Portsmouth Road, Cobham, Surrey, KT11 1JG.
The Company and its subsidiaries together the Group are engaged in residential led, mixed-use property development.
Further information about the nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Directors Report on page 40.
Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and on the going concern basis.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the assets.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed on page 68.
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the financial year ended 30 April 2010, but have had no impact on the consolidated financial statements: IFRS 2 Amendment Share-based payment: IFRS 7 Amendment Financial Instruments: Disclosures: IAS 23 Amendment Borrowing costs: IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements: IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes relating to IAS 18 Revenue IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction: and IFRIC 15 Agreements for the construction of real estate.
The adoption of the following new standards has had an impact on the consolidated financial statements as follows: IAS 1 Revised Presentation of financial statements.
The most significant change within IAS 1 Revised is the requirement to produce a statement of comprehensive income setting out all items of income and expense relating to non-owner changes in equity.
The Group has elected to present two separate statements comprising an income statement and a statement of comprehensive income.
In addition, the statement of changes in equity is now presented as a primary statement whereas previously it was disclosed as a note to the financial statements.
This standard requires the disclosure of segment information on the same basis as the management information presented to the chief operating decision maker.
Under the new standard, the Group has one reportable operating segment.
Previously segmental information was reported for commercial units sold as part of mixed-use developments.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued, but are not effective for the financial year ended 30 April 2010 and have not been adopted early: IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation effective 1 July 2009 : IFRIC 17 Distribution of non-cash assets to owners effective 1 July 2009 : IFRIC 18 Transfer of assets from customers effective 31 October 2009 : IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments effective 1 July 2010 : IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and separate financial statements effective 1 July 2009 : IFRS 3 Revised Business combinations effective 1 July 2009 : IAS 38 Amendment Intangible assets effective 1 July 2009 : IFRS 5 Amendment Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations effective 1 January 2010 : IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of financial statements effective 1 January 2010 : IAS 24 Amendment Related party disclosures effective 1 January 2011 : IFRS 2 Amendment Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions effective 1 January 2010 : and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2013.
These standards are not expected to have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Basis of consolidation a Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the parent company and all its subsidiary undertakings.
The accounting date for subsidiary undertakings is 30 April.
In the case of acquisitions or disposals, the Groups result includes that proportion from or to the effective date of acquisition or disposal as appropriate.
Subsidiary undertakings are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain the benefits from its activities.
