GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT | 43 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Background This report has been prepared in accordance with The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and Large & Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Combined Code and the Markets Law relating to Directors remuneration.
The auditors are required to report on the auditable part of this report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the above Regulations.
The report is therefore divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
As required by the Regulations, an advisory resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements will be approved.
Part 2 of the regulations Unaudited information Remuneration Committee The following table sets out the members of the Remuneration Committee, their date of appointment, their role and the number of meetings the Committee had during the year and their respective attendance: Number of meetings 4 Name Date of appointment Role in Committee %age attendance Mr Alan Coppin 1 September 2006 Chairman 100% Mrs Victoria Mitchell 1 May 2002 Member 100% Mr John Armitt 1 October 2007 Member 75% The Remuneration Committee of the Board are all Non-executive Directors and independent.
Mrs Victoria Mitchell was Chairman of the Company until 9 September 2009.
The Remuneration Committee members have no personal financial interest other than as shareholders in matters to be decided, no potential conflicts of interest arising from cross directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Remuneration Committee has formal written terms of reference with the full remit of the Committee role described.
A copy of the terms of reference can be downloaded from the Companys website.
The Committee, as part of the Board, has received advice from  LLP, who were the Remuneration Committee advisors until February 2010, and who now provide advice on executive reward to the Board as a whole.
The Remuneration Committee is able to seek independent advice at the expense of the Company: other than the above, no advice has been sought by the Committee during the year under review.
In determining the Executive Directors remuneration for the year, the Remuneration Committee consulted with the Group Chairman, Mr A W Pidgley, the Group Managing Director, Mr R C Perrins and the Group Finance Director, Mr N G Simpkin.
No Director played a part in any discussion about his remuneration.
Remuneration policy overview The objective of the remuneration policy is to encourage, reward and retain the current Executives.
The Remuneration Committee believes that shareholders interests are best served by remuneration packages having a large emphasis on performance-related pay.
Emphasis on performance should encourage Executives to focus on delivering the business strategy.
It is the opinion of the Remuneration Committee that the policy provides meaningful incentives to Executives and ensures that the appropriate balance between fixed and performance-related compensation is maintained.
The Remuneration Committee reviews on an annual basis whether its remuneration policy remains appropriate for the relevant financial year.
Factors taken into account by the Remuneration Committee include: market conditions affecting the Company: the recruitment market in the Companys sector: aligning remuneration to the corporate strategy and delivering value to shareholders by encouraging long-term sustainable performance: changing market practice: and changing views of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies and Corporate Governance best practice.
The review this year took account of the changes to, and roles within, the Board during the year.
The main structural change to the remuneration for Executives is the introduction of a new bonus arrangement for 2010 11 and beyond, The Berkeley Group Holdings plc Bonus Plan the New Bonus Plan, reflecting the strategy for the Company which has changed in response to evolving market conditions and the opportunities this presents.
Details of the New Bonus Plan are set out in the relevant section of this Report.
The Company has fully consulted with its major shareholders, the ABI and RiskMetrics on the salary changes see below and on the New Bonus Plan.
The Remuneration Committee is grateful for the constructive dialogue with shareholders and the support of those shareholders consulted in finalising the changes set out in this Report.
It should be noted that despite the changes to salaries which reflect changes in roles, and the introduction of the New Bonus Plan, the total potential compensation value for the Executives will reduce over the next period due to the lower equity grants under The Berkeley Group Holdings plc 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan the 2009 LTIP compared to the historic equity programmes operated by the Company.
