Portfolio and other information Portfolio valuation an explanation 130 130 Policy Our policy is to value 3is investment portfolio at fair value and achieve this by valuing individual investments on an appropriate basis using a consistent approach across the portfolio.
The Groups valuation policy is owned by the Board and periodically reviewed by the Boards Valuations Committee.
The policy ensures that the portfolio valuation complies with all relevant accounting standards and is fully consistent with IFRS and the guidelines issued by the International Private Equity Valuation Board the IPEV guidelines.
Fair value is defined as the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants at the reporting date IPEV guidelines, September 2009.
Fair value is therefore an estimate, and as such determining fair value requires the use of judgments.
Determining enterprise value To arrive at the fair value of the Groups investments, we first estimate the entire value of the Company we have invested in the enterprise value.
This enterprise value is determined using one of a selection of methodologies depending on the nature, facts and circumstances of the investment.
Where possible we use methodologies which draw heavily on observable market prices, whether listed equity markets or reported merger and acquisition transactions.
The quoted assets in our portfolio are valued at their closing bid price on the balance sheet date.
The majority of the rest of our portfolio, however, is represented by unquoted investments.
These are valued, in the vast majority of cases, with reference to market comparables, or to reported transactions.
As unquoted investments are less easily sold than quoted investments, the Group adjusts the estimated enterprise value by a marketability or liquidity discount.
The marketability or liquidity discount applied has changed in line with the update IPEV guidelines, September 2009.
The discount is now applied to the total enterprise value, rather than as previously applied to the total enterprise value after the deduction of senior debt.
This had a 37 million impact on the core portfolio in the year.
We apply a higher discount rate for investments where there are material restrictions on our ability to sell at a time of our choosing.
The table opposite outlines in more detail the range of valuation methodologies available to us, as well as the inputs and adjustments necessary for each.
Apportioning the enterprise value between 3i, other shareholders and lenders Once we have estimated the enterprise value using one of the methodologies outlined in the table opposite, the following steps are taken: 1 We subtract the value of any claims, net of free cash balances, that are more senior to the most senior of our investments: 2 The resulting attributable enterprise value is apportioned to the Groups investment, and equal ranking investments by other parties, according to contractual terms and conditions, to arrive at a fair value of the entirety of the investment.
The value is then distributed amongst the different loan, equity and other financial instruments in line with IFRS.
3 If the value attributed to a specific loan investment in a company is less than its par or nominal value, a shortfall is implied, which is recognised in our valuation.
In exceptional cases we may judge that the shortfall is temporary: to recognise the shortfall in such a scenario would lead to unrepresentative volatility in our accounts and hence we may choose not to recognise the shortfall.
Other factors In applying this framework, there are additional considerations that are factored into the valuation of some assets: Impacts from structuring Structural rights are instruments convertible into equity or cash at specific points in time or linked to specific events.
For example, where a majority shareholder chooses to sell and we have a minority interest, we may have the right to a minimum return on our investment.
Debt instruments in particular may have structural rights.
In the valuation it is assumed third parties such as lenders or holders of convertible instruments fully exercise any rights they might have, and that the value to the Group may therefore be reduced by such rights held by third parties.
The Groups own rights are valued on the basis they are exercisable on the reporting date.
Assets classified as terminal If we believe a business in which we hold an investment has more than a 50% probability of failing in the 12 months following the valuation date, we value the investment on the basis of its expected recoverable amount in the event of failure.
This would generally result in the equity and loan components of our investment being valued at nil.
3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Overview Business Case Risk Corporate Governance Financial Portfolio and review studies responsibility statements other information 131 % of portfolio valued on this Methodology Description Inputs Adjustments basis 71% Earnings Most commonly used valuation Earnings multiples are applied to the earnings of the A marketability or methodology company to determine the enterprise value.
liquidity discount Used for investments which are is applied to the Earnings profitable and for which we can enterprise value, Reported earnings adjusted for non-recurring items, determine a set of listed companies typically between 5% such as restructuring expenses, and for significant with similar characteristics and 15%, depending corporate actions, to arrive at maintainable earnings on the specific Most common measure is earnings before interest, investment tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA Earnings used are latest management accounts for the latest 12 months available, unless data from forecasts or the latest audited accounts provides a more reliable picture of maintainable earnings Earnings multiples The earnings multiple is derived from comparable listed companies We select companies in the same industry, where possible with a similar business model and profile in terms of size, products, services and customers, and where possible in the same geographic region We track the multiple paid at our initial investment against this set of comparable companies, taking into account a relative premium or discount where the underlying risk and earnings growth rate support that relative ranking We adjust for changes in the relative performance in the set of comparables 9% Quoted Used for investments in listed Closing bid price at balance sheet date No adjustments or companies discounts applied 1% Imminent sale Used where an asset is in a sales Contracted proceeds for the transaction, or best A discount of typically process, a price has been agreed but estimate of the expected proceeds 10% is applied to the transaction has not yet settled reflect the uncertainty over the ultimate outcome 1% Further round Used for early-stage investments, Implied valuation from further investment No adjustments or if a third party has made a further discount applied investment 4% Fund Used for investments in Net asset value reported by the fund manager Typically no further unlisted funds discount applied in addition to that applied by the fund manager Specific industry metrics Used for investments in industries We create a set of comparable listed companies and An appropriate 4% which have well defined metrics as derive the implied values of the relevant metric discount is applied, bases for valuation We track and adjust this metric as in the case of an depending on the Eg book value for insurance earnings multiple valuation metric used underwriters, or regulated asset Comparable companies are selected using the same bases for utilities criteria as described for the Earnings methodology 1% Discounted cash flow Appropriate for businesses with Long-term cash flows are discounted at a rate which Discount already long-term stable cash flows, typically is tested against market data, where possible, or implicit in the discount in infrastructure adjusted from the rate at the initial investment based rate applied to longon changes in the risk profile of the investment term cash flows no further discounts applied 1% Net assets Used for businesses that are loss Assets are valued at the best estimate of the proceeds A discount is applied to making, or where the probability of in a liquidation scenario reflect the uncertainty liquidation is high over the ultimate outcome Other Used where elements of a business Values of separate elements prepared on one No further discount are valued on different bases of the methodologies listed above is applied 8% For a small proportion of our smaller investments less than 3% of the portfolio, the valuation is determined by a more mechanistic approach using information from the latest audited accounts.
Equity shares are valued at the higher of an earnings or net assets methodology.
Fixed income shares and loan investments are measured using amortised cost and any implied impairment, in line with IFRS.
Consistent with IPEV guidelines, all equity investments are held at fair value using the most appropriate methodology and no investments are held at historical cost.
3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010
