3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2010 71 71 Portfolio valuation methodology A description of the methodology used to value the investment portfolio of 3i Infrastructure and its subsidiaries the Group is set out below in order to provide more detailed information than is included within the accounting policies and the Investment Advisers review for the valuation of the portfolio.
The methodology complies in all material aspects with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital valuation guidelines which are endorsed by the British Private Equity and Venture Capital Association and the European Private Equity and Venture Capital Association.
Basis of valuation Investments are reported at the Directors estimate of fair value at the reporting date.
Fair value represents the amount for which an asset could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
General In estimating fair value, the Directors seek to use a methodology that is appropriate in light of the nature, facts and circumstances of the investment and its materiality in the context of the overall portfolio.
The methodology that is the most appropriate may consequently include adjustments based on informed and experience-based judgments, and will also consider the nature of the industry and market practice.
Methodologies are applied consistently from period to period except where a change would result in a better estimation of fair value.
Given the uncertainties inherent in estimating fair value, a degree of caution is applied in exercising judgments and making necessary estimates.
Quoted investments Quoted equity investments are valued at closing bid price at the reporting date.
In accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, no discount is applied for liquidity of the stock or any dealing restrictions.
Quoted debt investments will be valued using quoted prices provided by third-party broker information where reliable or will be held at cost less fair value adjustments.
Unquoted investments Unquoted investments are valued using one of the following methodologies: Discounted Cash Flow DCF Limited Partnership share of fund net assets Sales basis: expected sales proceeds Cost less any fair value adjustments required DCF DCF is the primary basis for valuation.
In using the DCF basis, fair value is estimated by deriving the present value of the investment using reasonable assumptions and estimation of expected future cash flows and the terminal value and date, and the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate that quantifies the risk inherent to the investment.
The discount rate will be estimated for each investment derived from the market risk-free rate, a risk-adjusted premium and information specific to the investment or market sector.
LP share of fund net assets Where the Group has made investments into other infrastructure funds, the value of the investment will be derived from the Groups share of net assets of the fund based on the most recent reliable financial information available from the fund.
Where the underlying investments within a fund are valued on a DCF basis, the discount rate applied may be adjusted by the Company to reflect its assessment of the most appropriate discount rate for the nature of assets held in the fund.
Sales basis The expected sale proceeds methodology will be used in cases where offers have been received as part of an investment sales process.
This may either support the value derived from another methodology or may be used as the valuation.
A marketability discount is applied to the expected sale proceeds to derive the valuation where appropriate.
Cost less fair value adjustment Any investment in a company that has failed or, in the view of the Board, is expected to fail within the next 12 months, has the equity shares valued at nil and the fixed income shares and loan instruments valued at the lower of cost and net recoverable amount.
