3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2010 51 51 Significant accounting policies 3i Infrastructure plc the Company is a company incorporated in Jersey, Channel Islands.
The consolidated financial statements for the year to 31 March 2010 comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
Separate financial statements of the Company are also presented with the exception of a Company level statement of comprehensive income as this is not required under Jersey Company Law where consolidated information is presented.
The accounting policies of the Company are the same as for the Group, except where separately disclosed.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 5 May 2010.
Statement of compliance These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and their interpretations as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
These financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with and in compliance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Basis of preparation The financial statements of the Group and the Company are presented in sterling, the functional currency of the Company, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand pounds 0.1 million except where otherwise indicated.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the Board to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Certain prior-year balances have been reclassified to conform with current-year presentation required under IFRS.
Key estimates and judgments The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the Directors to exercise judgment in the process of applying the accounting policies defined below.
The following policies are areas where a higher degree of judgment has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements.
i Basis of consolidation - The Group holds significant stakes in the majority of its investee companies.
The Group must exercise judgment in the level of control of the underlying investee company that is obtained and consider the need to classify certain investee companies as associates, joint ventures or subsidiary undertakings.
ii Functional currency - The Group has certain subsidiaries that conduct the majority of their business operations in currencies other than sterling.
Judgment has been exercised in determining the appropriate functional currency of these subsidiary undertakings.
iii Recognition and fide-recognition of investments - Certain investment transactions completed by the Group require judgment to be exercised in determining the point at which the significant risks and rewards of ownership of a financial asset are transferred to or from the entity and in determining the point at which these financial assets are recognised or fide-recognised in the financial statements.
iv Classification of financial assets - The Group classifies investments upon initial recognition as either assets held at fair value through profit or loss or as loans and receivables.
Given the nature of certain instruments in which the Group may choose to invest, judgment is required in determining the appropriate classification of the assets held.
The adoption of certain accounting policies by the Group also requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates in determining the information to be disclosed in the financial statements.
Areas where assumptions are significant to the consolidated and individual financial statements include: i Valuation of the investment portfolio - Certain assets in the investment portfolio are valued on a discounted cash flow basis which requires assumptions to be made regarding the growth in future cash flows and the discount rate to be applied to these cash flows.
Refer to Note 8 and Note 11 for further details of the sensitivity of the carrying value of these investments to the assumptions that have been made.
ii Assessment for impairment - The Group must make certain estimates regarding the recoverability of loans and receivables balances when assessing whether these financial assets meet the criteria for impairment against the current carrying value.
Refer to Note 2 and Note 8 for further details of assessments made during the year.
New accounting policies adopted The following accounting policies have been adopted by the Group in respect of the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010.
Each of these accounting policies has been adopted following new or revised accounting standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board that have become effective for the Group for the first time for the year ended 31 March 2010. i IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments, an amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures which has resulted in additional disclosures being made regarding liquidity risk and the fair value of financial instruments.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of the standard not to apply this amendment retrospectively.
3i Infrastructure plc 52 52 Annual report and accounts 2010 N Sio gn te if s t ica o t nt a he a ccc oun coun ting p ts co oli nt c in ie us e d continued New accounting policies adopted continued ii IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised which has resulted in the reformatting of the statement of recognised income and expense and income statement into a single statement of comprehensive income and the addition of a statement of changes in equity.
The adoption of this policy has not changed the recognition, measurement or disclosure of any balances in the financial statements.
iii IFRS 8 Operating Segments which has resulted in amendments to the format and presentation of the segmental information disclosed by the Group.
New standards and interpretations not applied The following standards or interpretations have been issued by either the IASB or IFRIC and are not yet effective.
The Group will adopt these standards in respect of the first period of account ending after the effective date listed below.
The following new or amended standards are not applicable to these financial statements but are expected to have an impact when they become effective in future accounting periods.
i IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised, effective for periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009, introduces a number of changes to accounting for business combinations that will impact the amount of goodwill recognised on acquisition.
The amendments will also affect the reported results in the period that an acquisition occurs as well as future results.
ii IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised, effective for periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009, requires that a change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary without loss of control is accounted for as an equity transaction and such transactions will no longer give rise to goodwill.
Furthermore, the amended standard introduces changes to accounting for losses incurred by a subsidiary as well as the loss of control of a subsidiary.
iii IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2013 proposes revised measurement and classification criteria for financial assets.
This standard has a mandatory effective date in 2013.
The Group is still assessing the impact on the Groups future financial statements.
The following new or amended standards that have been issued by the IASB or IFRIC are not expected to have a significant impact on the Group once they become effective: i IFRS 1 Revised First Time Adoption of Financial Reporting Standards effective for periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009 ii IFRS 1 Amendment Additional Exemptions for First Time Adopters effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2010 iii IFRS 1 Amendment Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First Time Adopters effective for periods commencing on or after 1 July 2010 iv IFRS 2 Amendment Group Cash Settled Share Based Payment Transactions effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2010 v IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2013 vi IAS 24 Revised 2009 Related Party Disclosures effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2011 vii IAS 39 Eligible Hedged Items effective for periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009 viii Improvements to IFRSs April 2009 effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2010 ix IFRIC 14 Amendment Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2011 x IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation effective for periods commencing on or after 1 July 2010 xi IFRIC 17 Issue of Non Cash Assets to Owners effective for periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009 xii IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers effective for transactions occurring on or after 1 July 2009 xiii IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments effective for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010 A.
Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Investments that are held as part of the Groups investment portfolio are carried in the balance sheet at fair value even though the Group may have significant influence over those companies.
This treatment is permitted by IAS 28 Investment in Associates, which allows investments held by venture capital organisations to be excluded from its scope where those investments are designated, upon initial recognition, as at fair value through profit or loss and accounted for in accordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the period.
The Group has no interests in associates through which it carries on its business.
iii Joint ventures Interests in joint ventures that are held as part of the Groups investment portfolio are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
This treatment is permitted by IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures, which requires interests held by venture capital organisations to be excluded from its scope where those investments are designated, upon initial recognition, as at fair value through profit or loss and accounted for in accordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the period of the charge.
The Group has no interests in joint ventures through which it carries out its business.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2010 53 53 A.
Basis of consolidation continued iv Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with jointly-controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
v Minority interests Minority interests reflect the proportion of the capital of subsidiary undertakings of the Group that is not held by entities within the Group.
The proportion of the net assets and profit of the Group that is attributable to minority interests is shown as a separate component within the statement of comprehensive income and the balance sheet.
Movements in the net assets attributable to minority interests during the year arising from distributions payable to minority interests or movements in the proportion of capital held by minorities are shown directly in equity through the statement of changes in equity.
Exchange differences i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in currencies different from the functional currency of the Group entity entering into the transaction are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the financial reporting date are translated to sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transactions.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to sterling using exchange rates ruling at the date the fair value was determined.
ii Financial statements of non-sterling operations The assets and liabilities of operations whose functional currency is not sterling, including fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to sterling at exchange rates ruling at the financial reporting date.
The revenues and expenses of these operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate component of equity, the translation reserve, and are released upon disposal of the non-sterling operation.
C. Investment portfolio i Recognition and measurement Investments are recognised and derecognised on a date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require the delivery or settlement of the investments.
The Group manages its investments with a view to profiting from the receipt of interest and dividends and changes in fair value of equity investments.
Therefore, all quoted investments and unquoted equity investments are designated as at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition and subsequently carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
Other investments include loan investments and are classified as loans and receivables and subsequently carried in the balance sheet at amortised cost less impairment.
All investments are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration given and held at this value until it is appropriate to measure fair value on a different basis, applying the Groups valuation policy on page 71.
Acquisition costs are attributed to equity investments and recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Investments held in subsidiaries in the separate financial statements of the Company are accounted for at cost less provision for impairment.
ii Income a Realised profits over value on the disposal of investments is the difference between the fair value of the consideration receivable less any directly attributable costs, on the sale of equity and the repayment of loans and receivables, and its fair value at the start of the accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange rates in force at the date of disposal: and are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive income.
b Unrealised profits on the revaluation of investments is the movement in the fair value of investments between the start and end of the accounting period, or the investment acquisition and the end of the accounting date converted into sterling using the exchange rates in force at the end of the period: and are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
c Portfolio income is that portion of income that is directly related to the return from individual investments.
It is recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be an economic benefit and the income can be reliably measured.
The following specific recognition criteria must be met before the income is recognised: Dividends from equity investments are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established to the extent that dividends paid out of pre-acquisition reserves adjust the fair value of the equity investment: Income from loans and receivables and debt held at fair value through profit or loss is recognised as it accrues by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the financial asset to the assets carrying value.
iii Impairment of assets held as loans and receivables - All financial assets held as loans and receivables are assessed for impairment on both an individual and a collective basis.
The amount of the impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value of the asset and the net present value of the expected future cash flows expected to arise from each asset based on the effective interest rate of each asset.
The amount of the resultant loss is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
If the impairment analysis demonstrates that the conditions giving rise to a previously recognised impairment are no longer prevalent, a reversal of the impairment loss is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
3i Infrastructure plc 54 Annual report and accounts 2010 Significant accounting policies continued D. Fees i Fees Fees payable represent fees incurred in the process of acquiring an investment and are measured on the accruals basis.
ii Advisory fee An annual advisory fee is payable to 3i plc based on the Gross Investment Value of the Company.
The fee is payable quarterly in advance and is accrued in the period it is incurred.
Further explanations are provided in Note 20. iii Performance fee 3i plc is entitled to a performance fee based on the Adjusted Total Return per ordinary share generated in the period in excess of a performance hurdle.
The fee is payable annually in arrears and is accrued in the period it is incurred.
Further explanations are provided in Note 20.
E. Treasury assets and liabilities Short-term treasury assets and shortand long-term treasury liabilities are used to manage cash flows and the overall costs of borrowing.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet when the relevant Group entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term deposits as defined above.
Interest receivable on cash and cash equivalents is recognised on an accruals basis.
ii Bank loans, loan notes and borrowings Loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
After initial recognition, these are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the liabilities.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
iii Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments may be used to manage the risk associated with foreign currency fluctuations of portfolio income, the valuation of the investment portfolio and changes in interest rates on its borrowings.
This is achieved by the use of forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps.
Such instruments shall be used for the sole purpose of efficient portfolio management.
All derivative financial instruments are held at fair value through profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value on the contract date and subsequently remeasured to the fair value at each reporting date.
All changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
The maturity profile of derivative contracts is measured relative to the financial contract settlement date of each contract and the fair value of the derivative contracts is disclosed accordingly.
F. Other assets Assets, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate policy, are stated at their cost less impairment losses.
The cost of such assets or liabilities is considered approximate to their fair value.
They are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated based on expected discounted future cash flows.
Any change in levels of impairment is recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
An impairment loss is reversed at subsequent financial reporting dates to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed its carrying value, had no impairment been recognised.
G. Other liabilities Liabilities, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate policy, are stated based on the amounts which are considered to be payable in respect of goods or services received up to the financial reporting date.
The cost of other liabilities is considered to be approximate to their fair values.
H. Share capital Share capital issued by the Company is recognised at the fair value of proceeds received and is credited to the stated capital account.
Direct issue costs net of tax are deducted from the fair value of proceeds received.
Income taxes Income taxes represent the sum of the tax currently payable, withholding taxes suffered and deferred tax.
Tax is charged or credited in the statement of comprehensive income.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the period.
This may differ from the profit included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the financial reporting date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit temporary differences, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
