Photographic references Front cover Inside cover Page 2 Page 11 Page 13 The Dad Vail Regatta London Bridge has The Puente fide The Pudong, In Australia, one is the largest interexisted in some la Mujer bridge which literally of Aberdeen's key collegiate regatta in form or another in Buenos Aires, means east of the country markets, the United States.
for over 2,000 Argentina has a Huangpu river, is Melbournes newest It has a long history years.
The bridge unique asymmetrical Shanghais financial pedestrian bridge in Philadelphia and handles thousands design.
Aberdeen's and commercial remained unnamed Aberdeens three of commuters on local presence hub.
It is home for nearly a year year sponsorship of a daily basis as it is in Sao Paulo to the Shanghai after construction the event ensures connects the South from where we Stock Exchange until a name, that it remains in London borough of are growing our and includes the reflecting the this historic US city.
Southwark to activities in the symbolic Oriental maritime history of the City.
region and looking Pearl Tower, the Jin the area was chosen to build our Latin Mao Building and Seafarers Bridge.
the Shanghai World Financial Centre.
Page 15 Page 17 Page 18 Page 23 Page 29 Frankfurt is the Co-ordinated Philadelphia is Euro banknotes have The University financial centre of Universal Time the hometown of been in circulation of Edinburgh was Germany and the UTC is the Aberdeen Asset since 2002 and founded in 1583 largest financial standard by which Management in are issued by the and was the fourth centre in continental the world regulates the United States.
European Central university to be Europe.
It is also a clocks and time.
The notes in established in significant territory Aberdeen has offices located in what is these photographs Scotland.
The QS for the property in most time zones, known as Center symbolise Aberdeen's World University assets managed with the exception City on the 32nd involvement within Rankings 2010 by Aberdeen and of ones such as and 33rd floors of a the Euro-zone.
ranked the the location of our India and French 54-storey skyscraper, Common to all the University of German office.
the fourth tallest euro banknotes is the Edinburgh as the building in European flag, a map 22nd university in Philadelphia.
of Europe and the the world.
"word ""Euro"" in Latin and Greek script."
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 145 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 10 Queens Terrace Aberdeen AB10 1YG Tel 44 0 1224 631999 Fax 44 0 1224 647010 www.
