Accounting policies Basis of preparation Accounting estimates and judgements The financial statements have been prepared in accordance Preparation of the financial statements necessitates the use with International Financial Reporting Standards endorsed by of estimates, assumptions and judgements.
These estimates, the EU adopted IFRS.
assumptions and judgements affect the reported values of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the balance sheet The financial statements have been prepared on the date as well as affecting the reported income and expenses for historical cost basis, except that certain of the Groups the year.
Although the estimates are based on managements financial instruments are stated at their fair values and the knowledge and judgement of information and financial data, measurement of long-term employee benefits at present the actual outcome may differ from these estimates.
The key value of the obligation less fair value of any assets held to assumptions which affect these results for the year and the settle the obligation.
The principal accounting policies, which balances as at the year-end are specifically identified, where have been consistently applied, unless otherwise stated, are appropriate, in the following notes to the Group financial set out below.
statements: a Periods used for amortisation of intangible assets - note 13 Statement of compliance Both the parent company financial statements and the Group b Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets - financial statements have been prepared and approved by note 13 the directors in accordance with adopted IFRS.
In publishing c Deferred tax assets - note 16 these financial statements, the Company is taking advantage d Share-based payments - note 24 of the exemption provided by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement e Provisions - note 30 and related notes that form part of the approved financial f Pensions - note 34 statements.
Going concern The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the forseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the directors' report on page 41.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 65 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED New standards and interpretations applied A number of new standards, amendments to existing standards and interpretations have been issued, some of which are mandatory for the financial year, with the remaining becoming effective in future periods.
Following the adoption of IFRS3, Business Combinations Revised 2008, the most significant changes to the Group's previous accounting policies for business combinations are as follows: acquisition related costs which previously would have been recognised as a cost of a business combination are included in administrative expenses as they are incurred: any pre-existing equity interest in the entity acquired is remeasured to fair value at the date of obtaining control, with any resulting gain or loss recognised in profit or loss: any changes in the Group's ownership interest subsequent to the date of obtaining control are recognised directly in equity, with no adjustment to goodwill: and any changes to the cost of an acquisition, including contingent consideration, resulting from events after the date of acquisition are recognised in profit or loss.
Previously, such changes resulted in an adjustment to goodwill.
The revised requirements have been applied to the acquisition of the business from RBS as described in note 13.
The following standards and interpretations adopted in the year required the Group to amend its primary statements Statements of comprehensive income and Statements of changes in equity and its disclosures within the notes to the financial statements: IAS 1 Revised 2007 Presentation of financial statements: Amendments to IFRS 7, Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments: IFRS 8 Operating Segments: and Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment amendment relating to vesting conditions.
New standards and interpretations not applied The International Accounting Standards Board has issued the following standards, which are relevant to the Group's reporting but which have not yet been applied and have an effective date after the date of these financial statements: Endorsed and available for early adoption: Effective date IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures 1 January 2011 revised 2009 IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 1 July 2010 Amendment to Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement 1 January 2011 IFRIC 14 Standards and interpretations not endorsed: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 1 January 2013 November 2009 Improvements to Improvements to IFRS 2010 1 July 2010 IFRS May 2010 1 January 2011 66 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The directors do not expect the adoption of these standards liabilities or equity instruments related to the to materially impact the Group's financial results in the replacement by the Group of an acquirees share-based period of initial application although there may be revised payment awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 presentations to the primary financial statements and Share-based Payments: and additional disclosures.
No material impact on the Group is assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for expected to arise from any other standards which are available sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for early adoption.
for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that Standard.
Basis of consolidation If the initial accounting for a business combination is The consolidated financial information contained within these incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the financial statements incorporate the results, cash flows and combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries for for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those the period to 30 September 2010.
Subsidiaries are entities provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement controlled by the Company and are included from the date period, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, that control commences until the date that control ceases.
to reflect new information obtained about facts and Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
known, would have affected the amounts recognised at that date.
All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
The measurement period is the period from the date Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
information about facts and circumstances that existed at the Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Revenue Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that Business combinations economic benefits will flow to the Group and such revenue Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted can be reliably measured.
Revenue is recognised as services are for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each provided and includes management fees, transaction fees and acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values performance fees.
at completion of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, Initial income from the sale of shares in open end investment and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are companies is taken to the balance sheet and amortised recognised in the income statement as incurred.
over the period of the asset management service, which is estimated based on the Groups experience of the average Where applicable, consideration for an acquisition includes holding periods by investors.
any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its fair value at completion.
The Group is entitled to earn performance fees from a Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against number of clients where the actual performance of the clients the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement assets exceeds defined benchmarks by an agreed level of period adjustments see below.
All other subsequent changes outperformance over a set time period.
Performance fees are in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an recognised when the quantum of the fee can be estimated asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant reliably, which is normally at the end of the performance IFRS.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration period, when this occurs on or before the reporting date, or classified as equity are not recognised.
where there is a period of less than six months remaining The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent to the end of the performance period and there is evidence liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS at the reporting date which suggests that the current 3 Revised 2008 are recognised at their fair values at the performance will be sustainable.
completion date, except that: deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 67 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Finance revenue Leases All Group leases are operating leases, being leases where Finance revenue comprises interest and dividends.
Interest the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of income is recognised using the effective interest rate method ownership of the leased asset.
Dividend income is recognised when the Groups right to receive payment is established which, in the case of Rental payments made under operating leases are charged listed securities, is the ex-dividend date.
to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received by the Group are recognised as a reduction in the rental expense, recognised on Realised and unrealised gains and losses a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
on investments Rental income from sub-leases is recognised on a straight-line Gains and losses both realised and unrealised on financial basis over the term of the relevant sub-lease.
assets designated as held for trading are recognised in the consolidated income statement as an element of revenue.
Pension costs Gains and losses on financial assets designated as availablefor-sale are initially recognised through the consolidated The principal pension scheme operated by the Group is a group personal pension scheme.
In addition overseas statement of comprehensive income.
On disposal, any gain subsidiaries make contributions to various trade and state or loss previously recognised in comprehensive income is defined contribution schemes.
Contributions to these defined reversed and the full gain or loss from purchase, after any contribution pension schemes are recognised as an expense impairment charge previously recognised, is taken through the in the income statement as they become payable under the consolidated income statement.
Realised gains and losses on investments are calculated as The Group also operates a number of legacy defined benefit the difference between the net sales proceeds and cost or pension schemes which arose on acquisitions, one of which amortised cost.
Unrealised gains and losses on investments is operated by the Company.
All schemes are closed to new represent the difference between the valuation of investments membership and to future service accruals.
The Groups net at the balance sheet date and their original cost or amortised obligation in respect of these schemes is calculated separately cost or, if they have been previously revalued, the valuation at for each scheme by estimating the amount of future benefit the last balance sheet date.
The movement in unrealised gains that members have earned in return for their service in prior and losses recognised in the period also includes the reversal periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present of gains or losses previously recognised on investments value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
disposed of during the current accounting period.
The benefits are discounted at a rate equal to the yield on high credit rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates Exceptional income and costs approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the Where the Group incurs significant non-recurring expenditure projected unit credit method.
or earns significant non-recurring income in respect of items that arise outwith the Groups normal business activities and The surplus or deficit in respect of defined benefit schemes which are sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure is expressed as the excess or shortfall of the fair value of the then the expenditure incurred is separately recognised on assets of the scheme compared to the present value of the scheme liabilities and is recognised as an asset or liability of the face of the income statement as exceptional in order to the Group or Company.
provide more helpful information to investors.
Interest costs on the liability, expected return on plan assets Finance costs and the costs of curtailments and settlements are recognised in the income statement.
Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings recognised using the effective interest rate method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group or Company, the recognised asset is limited to the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
68 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Other employee benefits Taxation Profit sharing and bonus payments Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and These are recognised when there is a present legal or deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement constructive obligation to make such payments as a result except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in of past events and a reliable estimate of the obligation can other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable profit Share based payments for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted The fair value of share options granted after 7 November 2002 at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable and spread over the period over which the employee becomes on differences between the carrying amount of assets and unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding options granted is measured using a trinomial lattice model, basis used for tax purposes.
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense method and is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that apply when the asset is realised or the liability settled.
vest except where forfeiture is due only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised The fair value of awards under the Groups LTIP is recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The available against which deductible temporary differences can fair value is initially measured at the date of the award and be utilised, except: is spread over the period during which employees become in respect of taxable or deductible temporary differences unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The fair value of LTIP associated with investments in subsidiaries and joint awards is based on the market price of the underlying shares ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the at the date of the award, taking into account the terms and temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable conditions upon which the award was made.
that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The Group awards deferred shares to employees as an element where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the of variable remuneration.
These deferred shares are expensed initial recognition of goodwill.
to the income statement over the relevant vesting period.
where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the Where the Company makes awards under the LTIP or deferred initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction share scheme to employees of its subsidiaries it recharges the that: cost of these awards to each subsidiary based on the cash is not a business combination: and value of the shares at the award date.
at the time of the transaction, affects neither Termination benefits accounting profit nor loss.
Termination benefits are recognised as an expense and liability when the Group is committed to the termination Property, plant & equipment of employment before the normal retirement date.
A commitment to such termination benefits arises when the Property, plant & equipment is stated at cost less accumulated Group has initiated detailed plans which cannot realistically depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Expenditure on property, plant & equipment is capitalised on initial recognition.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised Employee Benefits Trust when it is probable that there will be future economic benefits The Group has an Employee Benefits Trust EBT which owns attributable to the item and the cost of the item can be shares in the Company for the purposes of administering measured reliably.
All other expenditure is recognised as an the Groups LTIP and deferred share schemes.
The EBT is expense in the income statement as incurred.
consolidated into the Groups financial statements, with any shares held by the EBT deducted from equity.
Any Property, plant & equipment is depreciated so as to write off consideration received for such shares is recognised within the cost of assets, on a straight line basis, over their estimated retained earnings.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income useful lives as follows: statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of Heritable property: 50 years equity shares.
Leasehold property: over the period of the lease Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 69 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Property improvements: shorter of five years or the and are therefore not subject to amortisation.
The indefinite period of the lease nature of these contracts is re-assessed on an annual basis to ensure that the policy remains appropriate.
The Group tests Computers, fixtures and fittings: three to ten years for impairment of these assets annually, or more frequently Motor vehicles: four years if there is an indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The recoverable amount is the greater of Depreciation is recognised as an expense in the income fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
contracts in respect of segregated mandates and certain The carrying value of these assets is reviewed at each open ended funds are considered to have a finite life and reporting date to consider whether there is any indication that are therefore amortised on a straight line basis over their the value of any asset may be impaired: if any such indication estimated average contract term of between five and ten exists and where the carrying value exceeds the estimated years, with amortisation charged to the income statement.
recoverable amount, the asset is written down to its Other intangible assets - software recoverable amount, being the greater of fair value less costs Purchased intangible assets have a finite life and are stated at to sell and value in use.
Any impairment losses are recognised cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a An item of property, plant & equipment is derecognised upon straight line basis according to the useful economic life of disposal or when no further economic benefits are expected the intangible asset which, for software, is estimated at three from its use.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the years.
Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal is capitalised only when it increases the future economic proceeds and the carrying value of the asset is included in benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
the income statement in the year the asset is derecognised.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made as to whether there Intangible assets is any indication that an asset in use may be impaired.
If any such indication exists and the carrying values exceed the Goodwill estimated recoverable amount, the asset is written down to Goodwill arising on consolidation, representing the excess of its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the greater the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised in the balance sheet.
The carrying value of goodwill at 1 October 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, Financial instruments is equivalent to the carrying value under UK GAAP and is Financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value subject to annual impairment testing.
plus, in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
They are Following initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less categorised as described below.
An impairment review is carried out at least annually and any impairment is recognised The fair value of financial instruments that are actively traded immediately in the income statement and not subsequently on organised financial markets is determined by reference reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to the appropriate cashto market bid prices at the close of business on the balance generating unit for the purpose of impairment testing.
For investments where there is no active market, the fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
These Management contracts techniques include recent arms length market transactions, Intangible assets, such as management contracts acquired reference to the current market value of another financial as part of a business combination, are capitalised where it is instrument which is substantially the same, discounted probable that future economic benefits attributable to the cashflow analysis and option pricing models.
assets will flow to the Group and the fair value of the assets can be measured reliably.
Financial investments at fair value through profit or loss include investments held for trading purposes.
They are carried Management contracts are recorded initially at fair value and at fair value in the balance sheet and gains or losses are taken then amortised, if appropriate, over their useful lives.
The fair to the income statement in the period in which they arise.
value at the date of acquisition is calculated using discounted The following assets and liabilities are classified as financial cash flow methodology and represents the valuation of the instruments at fair value through profit or loss: net residual income stream arising from the management contracts in place at the date of acquisition.
The contracts are Current assets included in the balance sheet as an intangible asset.
Financial investments The useful lives of management contracts in respect of Stock of units and shares certain open ended funds are considered to be indefinite 70 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Current liabilities c the asset is available for immediate sale in its present Investment contract liabilities condition: Available for sale financial assets are also carried at fair value d the asset is marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in the balance sheet.
Movements in fair value are taken to the in relation to its current fair value.
fair value reserve until derecognition of the asset, at which time the cumulative amount dealt with through this reserve is Cash and cash equivalents recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call Where there is objective evidence that an available for sale deposits and investments in money market instruments with financial asset is impaired, the cumulative impairment loss an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts is reclassified from equity to profit and loss with subsequent that are repayable on demand are included as a component of movements recognised in profit and loss.
cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the statement of cash flows.
The following assets are designated as available for sale: Non-current assets Investment contracts Other investments The Group sells unit linked life and pension contracts through Included in this category are the Groups investments in its insurance subsidiary, Aberdeen Asset Management Life and private equity partnerships.
The fair value of these investments Pensions Limited L&P.
Management fees earned from these represents the Groups direct investments and entitlement contracts are accounted for as described in the accounting to carried interest distributions, both of which are measured policy for revenue.
with reference to the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Association Valuation Guidelines.
L&P is consolidated in the Group financial statements on a line-by-line basis.
Unit linked policyholder assets held by L&P Loans and receivables and other financial liabilities are and related policyholder liabilities are carried at fair value, recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest with changes in fair value taken to profit or loss.
Amounts received from and paid to investors under these Convertible bonds that can be converted to share capital at the option of the holder, where the number of shares issued contracts are treated as deposits received or paid and does not vary with changes in their fair value, are accounted therefore not recorded in the income statement.
Charges to for as compound financial instruments with a liability and investors due under these contracts are recognised in the equity component.
Transaction costs that relate to the issue of income statement.
At the balance sheet date the value of a compound financial instrument are allocated to the liability these contracts is stated at an amount equal to the fair value and equity components in proportion to the allocation of of the net assets held to match the contractual obligations.
The equity component of the convertible bonds is calculated as the excess of the issue proceeds over the Investments in subsidiaries present value of the future interest and principal payments, In the Company balance sheet, investments in subsidiaries are discounted at the market rate of interest applicable to similar carried at cost less any provision for impairment.
liabilities that do not have a conversion option.
The interest expense recognised in the income statement is calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Impairment The Group has adopted trade date accounting.
Accordingly, The Group performs annual impairment reviews in respect of a financial investment is recognised on the date the Group goodwill and intangible fixed assets with indefinite lives.
The commits to its purchase and derecognised on the date on Group carries out impairment reviews in respect of intangible which the Group commits to its sale.
fixed assets with definite lives, property, plant & equipment and other assets, including fixed asset investments, whenever Assets held for sale events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying Assets acquired with the intention of subsequent disposal by amount may not be recoverable.
sale are classified as held for sale and measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cashAssets are only considered to be classified as held for sale if: generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
The a the carrying amount will be recovered through a sale recoverable amount for any asset or cash-generating unit is transaction rather than through continuing use: the higher of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
b management is committed to the sale within one year of acquisition: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 71 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating Foreign currencies units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of The consolidated financial statements are presented in any goodwill allocated to cash-generating units and then to sterling, the Companys functional and presentation currency.
reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on Each entity in the Group determines its own functional a pro rata basis.
currency and items included in the financial statements of Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
In each entity are measured in that functional currency.
respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the has been a change in the estimates used to determine the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences arising depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated to the functional Equity instruments currency using the exchange rate at the date of the Preference share capital transaction and so no exchange differences arise.
NonThe issued preference capital is classified as an element of monetary assets and liabilities stated at fair value in a foreign equity as it is irredeemable, except at the Companys option, currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the and dividend payments are discretionary.
Dividends on balance sheet date.
Where fair value movements in assets preference shares are recognised as distributions within equity.
and liabilities are reflected in the income statement, the Perpetual subordinated capital securities corresponding exchange movements are also recognised in The 7.9% perpetual subordinated capital securities are the income statement.
Where fair value movements in assets classified as an element of equity as the securities are and liabilities are reflected directly in other comprehensive irredeemable, except at the Companys option, and coupon income, the corresponding exchange movements are also payments are discretionary.
Coupon payments, net of recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
attributable tax, are recognised as distributions within equity.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated Repurchase of share capital to sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are amount of the consideration paid, which includes directly translated to sterling at rates approximating to the exchange attributable costs, is net of any tax effects, and is recognised rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
When these shares are sold or reissued subsequently, the amount received is recognised as Hedge of net investment in foreign operation an increase in equity, and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is transferred to or from retained earnings.
Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a financial liability designated as a hedge of a net investment Dividends in a foreign operation are recognised in other comprehensive Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised on the date income, in the foreign currency translation reserve, to the of payment or, if subject to approval, the date approved by extent that the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the shareholders.
Dividends on certain own shares held by the hedge is ineffective, such differences are recognised in profit Employee Benefit Trusts are waived by the Trustees.
When the hedged part of a net investment is disposed of, the associated cumulative amount in foreign currency Provisions translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss as an A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group adjustment to the profit or loss on disposal.
has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
No provision is established where a reliable estimate of the obligation cannot be made.
72 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
