Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty-eighth Annual General Meeting of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC will be held at The Marcliffe Hotel, North Deeside Road, Aberdeen, AB15 9YA at 12.00 noon on 20 January 2011 for the following purposes: For ease of reference, explanatory notes are attached to each resolution.
The formal resolutions are shown in bold text.
Resolutions 1 to 16 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 17 to 20 will be proposed as special resolutions.
To consider the following resolutions 1 to 16 which will be proposed as ordinary resolutions: 1 To receive the directors report and accounts for the year ended 30 September 2010 together with the auditors' report thereon.
The directors are required to present to the meeting the audited accounts and the directors and auditors reports for the financial year.
2 To declare a final dividend of 3.8p per ordinary share of 10p each in the capital of the Company ordinary share.
The Board recommends that a final dividend of 3.8p per ordinary share is paid.
If approved by the shareholders, this dividend will be paid on 27 January 2011 to ordinary shareholders on the register of members at 5.00 pm on 10 December 2010.
3 To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration.
The Companys auditors must offer themselves for reappointment at each Annual General Meeting at which accounts are presented.
On the advice of the audit committee, the Board proposes that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed as auditors of the Company.
4 To re-elect as a director Mr R C Cornick.
5 To re-elect as a director Ms A M Frew.
6 To re-elect as a director Mr G W Fusenig.
7 To re-elect as a director Mr M J Gilbert.
8 To re-elect as a director Mr A A Laing.
9 To re-elect as a director Mr K Miyanaga.
10 To re-elect as a director Mr W J Rattray.
11 To re-elect as a director Sir Malcolm Rifkind.
12 To re-elect as a director Mr S R V Troughton.
13 To re-elect as a director Mr C G H Weaver.
14 To elect as a director Mr J N Pettigrew who was appointed during the year.
"The new UK Corporate Governance Code ""New Code"" applies to the Company's accounting period to 30 September 2011."
Whilst the Company is not required to comply with the New Code for the accounting period to 30 September 2010, all the Directors are offering themselves for re-election in accordance with the New Code at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr Pettigrew offers himself for election for the first time following his appointment to the Board and Mr Waters does not wish to seek re-election.
Biographies of each of these directors are contained on pages 36 to 38.
The chairman confirms that following the completion of the annual performance evaluation and appraisal exercise, the performance of these Directors seeking re-election continues to be effective and that these directors demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Their re-election is therefore recommended.
15 To approve the remuneration report.
The Directors are required to prepare an annual report detailing the remuneration of the directors and the Companys remuneration policy and to seek shareholder approval to its contents.
The remuneration report is contained on pages 43 to 52.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 137 NOTICE OF MEETING CONTINUED 16 That in substitution for any existing authority under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date of this resolution the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to Article 11.2 of the Companys Articles of Association to allot shares and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares, and the section 551 amount for the purposes of that Article shall be 38,142,802, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting to be held in 2012 the prescribed period.
This resolution deals with the directors' authority to allot relevant securities in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 as prescribed in the Companys Articles of Association.
This resolution seeks to renew the authority conferred on the directors at the last Annual General Meeting to allot shares in the capital of the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 38,142,802 which represents approximately one-third of the present issued ordinary share capital of the Company and is the section 551 amount for the purposes of the Articles of Association.
These limits are in line with the guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers.
The authority granted by this resolution will expire at the conclusion of next years Annual General Meeting.
The directors have no present intention of allotting any of the unissued share capital of the Company other than in connection with employee share schemes.
To consider the following resolutions 17 to 20 which will be proposed as special resolutions: 17 That the directors be empowered to allot equity securities pursuant to Article 11.3 of the Companys Articles of Association, and the section 561 amount for the purposes of that Article shall be 5,721,420 such power to expire at the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting to be held in 2012 the prescribed period.
This resolution empowers the directors to issue equity securities of the Company for cash pursuant to the authorisation conferred by Resolution 16 without regard to statutory pre-emption provisions in limited circumstances.
This resolution limits the section 561 authority to issues of ordinary shares and or sales of treasury shares representing an aggregate nominal value of 5,721,420, which in turn represents 5% of the issued ordinary share capital at 29 November 2010.
This is in line with the guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers and the Pre Emption Group Guidelines.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of next years Annual General Meeting.
The directors have no present intention to exercise this authority.
18 That, as permitted by section 307A of the Companies Act 2006 any general meeting of the Company other than an Annual General Meeting of the Company shall be called by notice of not less than 14 clear days in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company provided that the authority of this Resolution shall expire at the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting to be held in 2012.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 clear days notice and would like to preserve this ability.
In order to be able to do so, shareholders must have approved the calling of meetings on 14 clear days notice.
The approval will be effective until the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2012, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Directive before it may call a general meeting on 14 clear days notice.
Details of how to lodge your proxy vote electronically can be found on the front of the Form of Proxy.
19 That the Company is, pursuant to section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 Act, hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares provided that: 1 the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 114,428,408 representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: 2 the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is 10 pence per ordinary share: 3 the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be the higher of i 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which any such purchase is made and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange: 138 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 4 the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which contract to purchase will be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make the purchase of the ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract and: 5 the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2012.
This resolution renews the authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting and gives the Company authority to buy back its own ordinary shares as permitted by the Act.
The authority limits the number of ordinary shares that may be purchased to a maximum of 114,428,408, representing 10% of the issued share capital at 29 November 2010, and sets the minimum and maximum prices that can be paid.
This authority will only be exercised if the directors believed that to do so would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the interests of the shareholders generally.
At present, the directors have no current intention of utilising this authority.
If this authority was exercised, the ordinary shares repurchased would be cancelled or held in treasury.
There are 4,071 convertible preference share units each of which consists of a preference share issued in the Company and a warrant issued in Aberdeen Warrants Jersey Limited which, if exercised, would result in a total of 4,425,000 ordinary shares in Aberdeen in issue.
There are also 20,143,400 ordinary shares under option and 900 convertible bonds 2014 in issue which, if exercised in full, would be convertible into 48,648,649 ordinary shares in the Company.
There would therefore be a further 73,217,049 ordinary shares in the Company, if all rights to subscribe were exercised representing 6.4% of the current issued share capital but before the buyback authority is utilised and represent 7.1% of the issued share capital if the full authority sought at the Annual General Meeting is utilised.
20 That, in accordance with sections 366 to 367 of the Companies 2006 Act the Company and all companies that are subsidiaries of the Company at any time during the period commencing on the date of this resolution and ending at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2012 be and are hereby authorised: 1 to make political donations to political parties, and or independent election candidates: 2 to make political donations to political organisations other than political parties: and 3 to incur political expenditure: up to an aggregate amount of 100,000 and the amount authorised under each of paragraphs 1 to 3 shall also be limited to such amount.
Words and expressions defined for the purposes of the Act shall have the same meaning in this resolution.
All existing authorisations and approvals relating to political donations or expenditure under sections 366 to 367 of the Act are hereby revoked without prejudice to any donation made or expenditure incurred prior to the date hereof pursuant to such authorisation approval.
It is the Companys policy not to make any donations to political parties nor incur political expenditure and the board does not intend to change that policy.
The Act required companies to obtain shareholders authority for donations to registered parties and other political organisations totalling more than 5,000 in any twelve month period and for any political expenditure, subject to limited exceptions.
The definition of donations in this context is very wide and extends to bodies such as those concerned with policy review and law reform, with the representation of the business community or sections of it.
It can include special interest groups, such as those involved with the environment and campaigning charities.
By order of the Board Scott E Massie Secretary 10 Queens Terrace Aberdeen AB10 1YG 29 November 2010 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 139 NOTICE OF MEETING CONTINUED Notes: 1 Information about this meeting is available from the Companys investor relations webpage: www.
com investorrelations 2 As a member you are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise all or any of your rights to attend, vote and speak at the Annual General Meeting.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend in person to represent you.
You may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
You may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise the rights attached to any one share.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed.
3 A Form of Proxy and any power of attorney or other authority, if any, in order to be valid, must be sent to Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZR so as to arrive no later than 12.00 noon on 18 January 2011.
The return of a completed Form of Proxy will not prevent you attending the meeting and voting in person if you wish to do so.
4 Copies of all contracts of service and letters of appointment of directors of the Company are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys registered office on any weekday except Saturdays and public holidays, and at the place of the meeting for a period of fifteen minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting and during the meeting.
5 Only those members entered on the Companys Register of Members not later than 6.00pm on 18 January 2011 or, if the meeting is adjourned, shareholders entered on the Companys Register not later than 6.00pm on the day two days prior to the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend, vote and speak at the meeting.
6 As a member, you have the right to ask questions at the meeting relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting.
7 Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between them and the member by whom they were nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, they may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
8 The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes 2 and 3 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by members of the Company.
9 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 20 January 2011 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds Euroclear specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual www.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer's agent ID RA19 by 12.00 noon on 18 January 2011.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuer's agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
140 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 10 You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Meeting or any related documents to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than as expressly stated.
11 As at 29 November 2010, the Companys issued share capital comprised 1,144,284,075 of 10p each.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company and therefore the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 29 November 2010 is 1,144,284,075.
12 It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under section 527 of the Act, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting: or ii any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 141
