Shareholder information 150 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notice of Annual General Meeting of BGGroup plc The twelfth Annual General Meeting AGM or Meeting of BGGroup plc the Company will be held at the Royal Berkshire Conference Centre, Madejski Stadium, Reading RG2 0FL on 12 May 2011 at 11.30 am for the transaction ofthe business set out below.
This notice contains the resolutions to be Ordinary resolutions Resolution 11 voted on at the Companys AGM.
Resolutions To re-elect Martin Houston as a Director of the 1to 19 are ordinary resolutions that will be Resolution 1 Company.
passed if more than 50% of the votes cast are To receive the Accounts and Reports of the in favour of the resolutions.
Resolutions 20 to Directors and the auditors for the year ended Resolution 12 22 are special resolutions that will be passed 31 December 2010.
To re-elect Sir David Manning as a Director of ifnot less than 75% of the votes cast are in theCompany.
A poll will be called Resolution 2 on each of the resolutions.
Further details are To approve the Remuneration report as set Resolution 13 set out in the explanatory notes.
outon pages 58 to 71 of the Companys To re-elect Mark Seligman as a Director of AnnualReport and Accounts for the year theCompany.
Resolution 14 Resolution 3 To re-elect Philippe Varin as a Director of To declare a final dividend in respect of the year theCompany.
ended 31 December 2010 of 11.78 cents per share payable on 20 May 2011 to holders of ordinary Resolution 15 shares on the register of shareholders of the To re-elect Sir Robert Wilson as a Director of Company at the close of business on 15April 2011. the Company.
Resolution 4 Resolution 16 To elect Fabio Barbosa as a Director of To re-appoint  LLP as theCompany.
auditors of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at Resolution 5 which accounts are laid before the Company.
To elect Caio Koch-Weser as a Director of theCompany.
Resolution 17 To authorise the Audit Committee to approve Resolution 6 the remuneration of the auditors.
To elect Patrick Thomas as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 18 That, in accordance with Sections 366 and 367 Resolution 7 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the To re-elect Peter Backhouse as a Director of Company, and all companies which are theCompany.
subsidiaries of the Company during the period when this resolution has effect, be and are Resolution 8 hereby authorised to: To re-elect Frank Chapman as a Director of theCompany.
a make political donations to political parties or independent election candidates up to a total Resolution 9 aggregate amount of 15 000: To re-elect Baroness Hogg as a Director of b make political donations to political theCompany.
organisations other than political parties up toa total aggregate amount of 15 000: and Resolution 10 To re-elect Dr John Hood as a Director of c incur political expenditure up to a total theCompany.
com BG Group A year of delivery Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 151 during the period beginning with the date of orother arrangements as the Directors may Resolution 22 the passing of this Resolution and ending at deem necessary or expedient to deal with That a general meeting, other than an annual the conclusion of the next annual general treasury shares, fractional entitlements or general meeting, may be called on not less meeting of the Company, provided that, in legal or practical problems arising under than 14 clear days notice.
anyevent, the total aggregate amount of all thelaws of any overseas territory or the political donations and political expenditure requirements of any regulatory body or incurred by the Company and its subsidiaries stockexchange or by virtue of ordinary shares in such period shall not exceed 50 000. being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter: and For the purposes of this Resolution, political By order of the Board b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to donations, political organisations, political Keith Hubber sub-paragraph a of this Resolution 20 to any parties and political expenditure have the Company Secretary person or persons of equity securities up to meanings given to them in Sections 363 to 365 11 March 2011 anaggregate nominal amount of 16 940 227, of the Act.
Registered Office: and shall expire upon the expiry of the general Resolution 19 100 Thames Valley Park Drive authority conferred by Resolution 19 above, That the Directors be and are hereby generally Reading save that the Directors shall be entitled to and unconditionally authorised in accordance Berkshire RG6 1PT make offers or agreements before the expiry with Section 551 of the Act to exercise all the United Kingdom of such power which would or might require powers of the Company to allot ordinary shares equity securities to be allotted after such in the Company and to grant rights to Registered in England & Wales expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, No.
3690065 allot equity securities pursuant to any such ordinary shares in the Company Rights up to offer or agreement as if the power conferred an aggregate nominal amount of 114 684 167 hereby had not expired.
provided thatthis authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting Resolution 21 of the Company, save that the Directors shall That the Company be generally and be entitled to make offers or agreements unconditionally authorised to make market before the expiry of such authority which purchases within the meaning of Section would or might require ordinary shares to be 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares of allotted or Rights to be granted after such 10 pence each of the Company on such terms expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to andin such manner as the Directors may allot ordinary shares and grant Rights pursuant fromtime to time determine, provided that: to any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired: and all unexercised a the maximum number of ordinary authorities previously granted to the Directors shareshereby authorised to be acquired to allot ordinary shares and grant Rights be and is338 804 545, representing approximately are hereby revoked.
10% of the issued ordinary share capital of theCompany as at 11March 2011: Special resolutions b the minimum price that may be paid for any such ordinary share is 10 pence, the nominal Resolution 20 value of that share: That the Directors be and are hereby c the maximum price that may be paid for any empowered pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 such ordinary share is an amount equal to ofthe Act to allot equity securities within the 105% of the average of the middle market meaning of Section 560 of the Act for cash quotations for an ordinary share in the either pursuant to the authority conferred by Company as derived from the London Stock Resolution 19 above or by way of a sale of Exchange Daily Official List for the five treasury shares as if Section 561 1 of the Act business days immediately preceding the did not apply to any such allotment, provided dayon which the share is contracted to that this power shall be limited to: bepurchased: a the allotment of equity securities in d the authority hereby conferred shall expire connection with an offer of securities in atthe conclusion of the next annual general favour of the holders of ordinary shares on the meeting of the Company unless previously register of members at such record date as the renewed, varied or revoked by the Company Directors may determine and other persons ingeneral meeting: and entitled to participate therein where the e the Company may make a contract to equity securities respectively attributable to purchase its ordinary shares under the the interests of the ordinary shareholders are authority hereby conferred prior to the proportionate as nearly as may be practicable expiryof such authority, which contract will to the respective number of ordinary shares ormay be executed wholly or partly after the held or deemed to be held by them on any expiry of such authority, and may purchase such record date, subject to such exclusions itsordinary shares in pursuance of any suchcontract.
com A year of delivery Shareholder information 152 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notice of Annual General Meeting of BGGroup plc continued Explanatory notes 15December 2010 respectively.
Biographical Under Section 378 of the Act, a company may details forFabioBarbosa, Caio Koch-Weser not make donations to an EU political party, This document is important.
If you are in any andPatrickThomas are given on pages 46 orother EU political organisation, or to an doubt about its content, you should consult and47 of the Companys Annual Report independent election candidate in the EU, an appropriate independent adviser.
andAccountsand are available to view at ofmore than 5 000 in total, or incur any EU www.
The Board political expenditure, without first obtaining If you have sold or transferred all of your unanimously recommends their election.
shares in BGGroup plc, please send this document and all accompanying documents Re-election of Directors Resolutions 7 to 15 It is the Companys policy not to make to the purchaser or transferee, or to the Section B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance contributions to political parties.
There is no stockbroker, bank or other agent through or Code states that all directors ofFTSE 350 intention to change that policy.
However, what towhom the sale or transfer was effected so companies should be subject to annual constitutes a political donation, a political that they can be passed on to the person who election by shareholders.
Biographical party, a political organisation or political now owns the shares.
detailsof all Directors are shown on pages expenditure under the Act is not clear, as the 46and 47 of the Annual Report and legislation is capable of wide interpretation Annual Report and Accounts Resolution 1 Accountsand are available to view at and may have the effect of covering a number The Directors are required to lay before the www.
Inreviewing of normal business activities that would not Meeting the Accounts of the Company for the the recommendations of the Nominations be thought to be political donations in the financial year ended 31 December 2010, the Committee concerning the re-election of usual sense.
To avoid any possibility of Directors report, the Remuneration report and Non-Executive Directors, the Board has inadvertently contravening the Act, the Board the Auditors report on the Accounts.
concluded that all Non-Executive Directors are considers that it would be prudent to follow independent in character and judgement.
In the procedure specified in the Act to obtain Remuneration report Resolution 2 addition, and following the annual evaluation shareholder approval for the Company and its It is mandatory for all UK-listed companies to exercise conducted during the year, the Board subsidiaries to make political donations or put their Remuneration report to an advisory considers that each Director continues to make incur political expenditure in the forthcoming shareholder vote.
As the vote is advisory in an effective andvaluable contribution and year until the conclusion of the annual general nature, payments made or promised to demonstrates commitment to the role.
meeting of the Company in 2012.
Directors will not have to be repaid, reduced Accordingly, the Board unanimously orwithheld in the event that the resolution recommends the re-election of each Director.
This authority will not be used to make any isnot passed.
political donations as that expression would Copies of the service contracts and letters of normally be understood.
Declaration of a dividend Resolution 3 appointment of all Directors of the Company A final dividend for the financial year ended are available for inspection during normal Authority to allot shares Resolution 19 31 December 2010 of 11.78 cents per ordinary business hours at the registered office of the Resolution 19 deals with the Directors share is recommended by the Directors.
A final Company and at the offices of Herbert Smith authority to allot ordinary shares.
dividend can be paid only after it has been LLP, Exchange House, Primrose Street, London declared by the shareholders at a general EC2A 2HS on weekdays Saturdays, Sundays At the last annual general meeting of the meeting.
It is proposed that shareholders and public holidays excluded and will also be Company held on 12 May 2010, the Directors declare this dividend by passing Resolution 3. available for inspection at the place of the were given authority to allot ordinary shares in Ifso declared, the final dividend of 11.78 cents AGM from 9.00 am on the day of the Meeting the capital of the Company up to a maximum 7.31 pence will be paid in Pound Sterling until its conclusion.
nominal amount of 115 641 305, representing on20 May 2011 to ordinary shareholders who approximately 1 3 of the Companys issued were on the register of the Company at the Re-appointment and remuneration ordinary share capital excluding treasury close of business on 15 April 2011.
American ofauditors Resolutions 16 and 17 shares as at 10 March 2010, together with Depositary Share ADS holders will be entitled The Company is required to appoint ordinary shares outstanding under BGGroups to receive the US Dollar dividend of 58.90 cents auditorsateach general meeting at which share option schemes.
This authority expires per ADS on 20 May 2011.
An interim dividend accounts arelaid before the Company, to at the conclusion of this years AGM.
for the year ended 31 December 2010 of holdoffice until the next such meeting.
9.82 cents 6.35 pence per ordinary share was Following the recommendation of the Following the banking crisis in 2008, the paid on 10 September 2010.
AuditCommittee, theDirectors propose that ABIissued revised guidelines allowing the  LLP be re-appointed allotment of an additional 1 3 of issued Election of Directors Resolutions 4 to 6 as auditors of the Company.
Resolution 17 ordinary share capital relating to a fully The Companys Articles of Association require proposes that the Audit Committee be pre-emptive rights issue.
In 2010, in accordance any Director newly appointed by the Board authorised to determine the level of the with this guidance, the Directors were toretire at the first annual general meeting auditors remuneration.
givenauthority to allot a further 1 3 of the following their appointment.
On 11 March 2011, Companys issued ordinary share capital up Fabio Barbosa was appointed to the Board Political donations Resolution 18 toa maximum of 112 536 365 representing asChief Financial Officer with effect from Resolution 18 is designed to deal with rules on approximately a further 1 3 of theCompanys 31March 2011.
CaioKoch-Weser and Patrick political donations and expenditure contained issued ordinary share capital excluding Thomas were appointed to the Board as in Part 14 of the Act Sections 362 to 379. treasury shares.
This authority toallot an Non-Executive Directors on 1 November and additional 1 3 of the issued ordinary share The Pound Sterling amount payable per share was fixed on 8 February 2011 at the same time as the US Dollar dividend was announced.
The rate of exchange used to determine the Pound Sterling amount equivalent was the average of the three business days prior totheannouncement of the dividend.
com BG Group A year of delivery Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 153 capital was not utilised by the Board during Authority to make market purchases of own would represent 0.65% of the issued ordinary the year.
The Directors no longer consider ordinary shares Resolution 21 share capital excluding treasury shares.
As at itappropriate to request authority from In certain circumstances, it may be the date of this Notice, there were nowarrants shareholders to allot an additional 1 3 of advantageous for the Company to purchase to subscribe for ordinary sharesoutstanding.
itsown ordinary shares and Resolution 21 seeks authority from shareholders to do so.
Notice of general meetings other than annual Accordingly, the Board considers it appropriate The Resolution specifies the maximum general meetings Resolution 22 that the Directors be granted authority to allot number of shares that may be acquired Resolution 22 is a resolution to allow the ordinary shares in the capital of the Company 10%ofthe Companys issued ordinary share Company to hold general meetings other up to a maximum nominal amount of capital excluding treasury shares and the thanannual general meetings on 14 clear 114 684 167 representing approximately maximum and the minimum prices at which daysnotice.
1 3 of theCompanys issued ordinary share they may be bought.
capital excluding treasury shares, together Before the introduction of the Companies with ordinary shares outstanding under Any ordinary shares purchased in this way will Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the BGGroups share option schemes.
The be cancelled, unless the Directors determine Regulations on 3 August 2009, the minimum authority will last until the conclusion of that they are to be held as treasury shares and notice period permitted by the Act for general the next annual general meeting in 2012. the number of ordinary shares in issue will be meetings, other than annual general meetings, reduced accordingly.
Ordinary shares held in was 14 clear days.
One of the amendments to As at the date of this Notice, the Company treasury will not automatically be cancelled the Act arising as a result of the introduction isholding 219 338 845 ordinary shares and will not be taken into account in future of the Regulations was to increase the intreasury, representing 6.47% of the calculations ofearnings per share, unless they minimum notice period for general meetings Companys issuedordinary share capital are subsequently resold or transferred out of listed companies to 21 clear days, but with excluding treasury shares.
an ability for companies to reduce this period back to 14 clear days, other than for annual The Directors have no present intention of Ordinary shares are held in treasury in general meetings, provided two conditions exercising this authority other than pursuant accordance withSection 724 of the Act and aremet.
The first condition is that a company to employee share plans.
may be used tosatisfy awards under the offers facilities for all shareholders to vote Companys share schemes pursuant to Section byelectronic means.
This condition is met if Disapplication of pre-emption rights 727 of the Act.
No dividends are paid on, and the company offers a facility accessible to all Resolution 20 no voting rights may be exercised on, treasury shareholders to appoint a proxy by means of Resolution 20 will empower the Directors shares while they remain intreasury.
Please refer to the note entitled toallot ordinary shares in the capital of the treasury shares sold by the Company will count Appointing a proxy on page 153 for details on Company, pursuant to the authority granted towards the number of ordinary shares that, if the Companys arrangements for electronic under Resolution 19 above, for cash, and to Resolution 20 is passed, may beissued without proxy appointment.
The second condition sellshares held in treasury, without applying offering them first to existing shareholders.
isthat there is an annual resolution of the pre-emption rights in the Act in certain shareholders approving the reduction in the circumstances.
Accordingly, the Directors As the existing shareholder approval to minimum notice period from 21 clear days to willbe able to allot: purchase ordinary shares expires at the 14clear days.
The Board is therefore proposing conclusion of the AGM, purchases after that Resolution 22 as a special resolution to a in connection with an open offer or date are subject to renewed shareholder approve 14 clear days as the minimum period otheroffer to existing shareholders in approval at the AGM.
The Directors have no of notice for all general meetings of the proportion totheir existing holdings up to present intention of exercising the authority to Company other than annual general meetings.
1129 348 484 ordinary shares representing purchase the Companys ordinary shares.
The The approval will be effective until the 1 3 of the Companys issued ordinary share Directors will use the authority to purchase Companys next annual general meeting.
capital : and shares only aftercareful consideration, takinginto accountmarket conditions, other The Directors will consider on a case-by-case b ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal investment opportunities, appropriate gearing basis whether the use of the flexibility offered value of 16 940 227, representing levels and the overall financial position of the by the shorter notice period is appropriate, approximately 5%of the issued ordinary Company.
The Directors will only purchase taking into account the circumstances, share capital of the Company as at the date suchordinary shares after taking into account including whether the business of the meeting of this Notice, otherwise than in connection the effectson earnings per share and the is time-sensitive.
with anoffer to existing shareholders.
Recommendation The Directors confirm their intention to follow As at the date of this Notice, thetotal number The Board considers the above Resolutions will the provisions of the Pre-emption Groups of options to subscribe for ordinary shares promote the success of the Company and are Statement of Principles regarding cumulative outstanding was 17 493 187.
This represents in the best interests of the Company and its usage of authorities within a rolling three-year 0.52% of the issued share capital of the shareholders as a whole.
These principles provide that Company at that date excluding treasury unanimously recommend that shareholders companies should consult shareholders prior shares.
If the Company bought back the vote in favour of all the above Resolutions as to issuing for cash shares representing in maximum number of ordinary shares they intend to do so themselves in respect of excess of 7.5% of the Companys issued share permitted pursuant to the existing authority, their own beneficial holdings.
capital in any rolling three-year period, other as well as the authority being sought by the than to existing shareholders.
passing of this Resolution, and cancelled them, then the total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding at that date BG Group www.
com A year of delivery Shareholder information 154 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notice of Annual General Meeting of BGGroup plc continued Notes to shareholders In order to be valid, an appointment of Nominated persons proxymust be returned by one of the Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is A copy of this Notice, and the other following methods: a person nominated under Section 146 of the information required by Section 311A of the Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Act, can be found at www.
com in hard copy form by post, by courier, or by Person may, under agreement with the investorrelations shareholderservices AGM hand to Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer shareholder who nominated them, have a Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6UT: rightto be appointed or to have someone The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of elseappointed as a proxy for the AGM.
co. uk by following theUncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, Nominated Persons have no right to appoint the on-screen instructions and using the specifies that only those holders of ordinary such proxy, or if they have the right but do not shareholder reference number printed on shares registered in the register of members of wish to exercise it, they may, under any such your proxy card: or the Company as at 11.30 am on 10 May 2011 or, agreement, have a right to give instructions if the Meeting is adjourned, at 6.00 pm onthe in the case of CREST members, by utilising tothe shareholder on how voting rights are to date which is two days prior to the adjourned the CREST electronic proxy appointment be exercised.
meeting or their duly appointed proxies shall service in accordance with the procedures be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting set out at the end of this page.
This statement of the rights of shareholders in orthe adjourned meeting in respect of the relation to the appointment of proxies in the number of ordinary shares registered in If a proxy form is signed by an agent, the paragraph above entitled Appointing a proxy theirname at that time.
Changes to entries power of attorney or other authority relied on does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The onthe register of members after 11.30 am on to sign it, or a copy which has been certified, rights described in that paragraph can only 10 May 2011 or, if the Meeting is adjourned, at must be delivered with the proxy form, unless beexercised by shareholders of the Company.
6.00 pm on the date which is two days prior the power of attorney has already been tothe adjourned meeting shall be disregarded registered with the Company.
Total shares and voting rights in determining the rights of any person to As at the date of thisNotice, the Companys attend or vote at the Meeting or the In each case, the appointment must be issued share capital consists of 3 607 384 297 adjourned meeting.
received by the Company no later than ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
However, the Company holds 219 338 845 Voting at the Meeting will be by poll rather ordinary shares in treasury and therefore isnot than by show of hands.
This is a more To change your proxy instructions, you may permitted to exercise voting rights in respect transparent method of voting as member lodge a revised proxy appointment using the of those shares while they are held in treasury.
votes are counted according to the number methods set out above.
The deadline for Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company ofordinary shares held.
The Chairman will receipt of proxy appointments see above also as at 11 March 2011 are 3 388 045 452. invite each shareholder and proxy present at applies in relation to amended instructions.
the Meeting to complete a poll card indicating Where two or more valid separate Appointing a corporate representative how they wish to cast their votes in respect appointments of proxy are received in respect A shareholder which is a corporation may ofeach Resolution.
In addition, the Chairman of the same share in respect of the same authorise a person or personsto act as its will cast the votes for which he has been meeting, the appointment which is delivered representative s at the AGM.
In accordance appointed as proxy.
Poll cards will be collected last shall be treated as replacing and revoking with the provisions of the Act, each such at the end ofthe Meeting.
Once the results the other or others.
If the Company cannot representative may exercise onbehalf of have been verified by the Companys registrar, determine which proxy form was delivered thecorporation the same powers as the they will be notified to the UK Listing Authority last, none of the forms shall be valid.
Where corporation could exercise if it were an and published on the Companys website.
you have appointed a proxy using the hard individual member of the Company, provided copy proxy form and would like to change the that they do not do so in relation to the instructions using another hard copy proxy sameordinary shares.
Appointing a proxy form, please contact Equiniti.
Shareholders are entitled to appoint a proxy Electronic proxy appointment through CREST toexercise all or any of their rights to attend, The website address, www.
co. uk CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy speak and vote on their behalf at the AGM.
isprovided solely for the purposes of enabling or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy Ashareholder may appoint more than one shareholders to register electronically their appointment service may do so by using the proxy in relation to the AGM, provided that appointment of a proxy or proxies for the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights AGM.
The Company will not accept any CREST Personal Members or other CREST attached to a different share or shares held otherdocument or information relating to sponsored members, and those CREST bythat shareholder.
A proxy need not be a proceedings of the Meeting or otherwise members who have appointed a service shareholder of the Company but must attend which may be sent by electronic means provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor the AGM in order to represent the appointing tothataddress.
or voting service provider s, who will be able shareholder.
A proxy form which may be used to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
to make such appointment and give proxy The return of a completed proxy form, any instructions accompanies this Notice.
If you othersuch instrument, or any CREST Proxy In order for a proxy appointment or instruction donot have a proxy form and believe that you Instruction does not preclude a shareholder made using the CREST service to be valid, the should have one, or if you require additional attending the AGM and voting in person if appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy forms, please contact the Companys registrar, they wish to do so.
Instruction must be properly authenticated Equiniti.
As an alternative to completing inaccordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland ahardcopy proxy form, proxies may be Limiteds Euroclear specifications, and must appointed electronically.
contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual available via www.
com BG Group A year of delivery Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 155 Themessage, regardless of whether it All shareholders members attending the must be authenticated by the person s constitutes the appointment of a proxy or Meeting have theright to ask questions.
making it, must be received by the Company isanamendment to the instruction given to TheCompany willendeavour to answer any not later than 30 March 2011, being the apreviously appointed proxy must, in order question relating to the business being dealt datesix clear weeks before the Meeting, tobe valid, be transmitted so as to be received with atthe Meeting.
However, an answer and in the case of a matter to be included bythe issuers agent ID RA19 by 11.30 am need notbe given if to do so would involve inthe business only must be accompanied on10 May 2011.
For this purpose, the time the disclosure of confidential information, by a statement setting out the grounds for ofreceipt will be taken to bethe time as orif it is undesirable in the interest of the the request.
determined by the time stamp applied to the Company or the good order of the Meeting message by the CREST Application Host from that the question be answered.
The Company Members satisfying the thresholds in which the issuers agent is able to retrievethe may also answer a question byreference Section 527 of the Act can require the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner toinformation already provided on the Company to publish a statement on its prescribed byCREST.
After this timeany Companys website.
website setting out any matter relating change of instructions to proxies appointed to: a the audit of the Companys Accounts through CREST should be communicated to Under Sections 338 and 338A of the Act, including the Auditors report and the theappointee through othermeans.
members meeting the threshold conduct of the audit that areto be laid requirements in those Sections the before the Meeting: or b any circumstances CREST members and, where applicable, their Requisitioning Members have the right connected with an auditor ofthe Company CREST sponsors, or voting service providers torequire the Company: ceasing to hold office since the last annual should note that Euroclear does not make general meeting, that the members propose available special procedures inCREST for any i t o give to members of the Company to raise at the Meeting.
Normal system timings entitled to receive notice ofthe meeting cannotrequire the members requesting and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation notice of a resolution which may properly thepublication on the website to pay to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
be moved and is intended to bemoved itsexpenses.
Where the Company is required Itisthe responsibility of the CREST member bythe Requisitioning Members atthe to place a statement on its website under concerned to take or, if the CREST member Meeting: and or Section 527 of the Act, it must forward the isaCREST personal member, or sponsored statement to the Companys auditors no member, or has appointed a voting service ii t o include in the business to be dealt laterthan the time it makes its statement provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or withat the Meeting any matter other available on the website.
The business which voting service provider s take s such action than a proposed resolution which may may be dealt with at the Meeting includes as shall be necessary to ensure that a message be properly included in the business at any statement that the Company has been is transmitted by means of the CREST system the Meeting.
required to publish on its website.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their A resolution may properly be moved or You may not use any electronic address CREST sponsors or voting system providers are amatter may properly be included in the provided in this Notice to communicate referred, in particular, to those sections of the business of the Meeting unless: withthe Company for any purposes other CREST Manual concerning practical limitations than those expressly stated.
ofthe CREST system and timings.
i in the case of aresolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by The Company may treat as invalid a CREST reason of inconsistency with any Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out enactment or the Companys constitution in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated or otherwise : Securities Regulations 2001. ii itisdefamatory of any person: or iii it is frivolous or vexatious.
Any such requisition may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, Electronic communications computer viruses Please note that the Company takes all reasonable precautions to ensure viruses are not presentin any electronic communication it sends out.
However, the Company cannot accept responsibility for loss or damage arising from the opening or use of any email or attachments from the Company and recommends that the shareholders subject all messages to virus-checking procedures prior to opening.
Any electronic communication, including the lodgement of an electronic proxy form, received by the Company, or its agents, that is found tocontain any virus will not be accepted.
com A year of delivery D A O R F E B A S I N I G S T O K E R O A L D E R G N I D A E R 3 3 A 3 A 2 9 3 3 4 7 7 2 0 3 A 4 A A VASTERN RD M 4 O F X O R D M R 4 Shareholder information 156 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Further information Directions to the For further directions to the Royal  please visit www.
uk Annual General Meeting Further information on BGGroup can be found at www.
com The 2011 Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at the Royal Berkshire Conference Centre, Madejski Stadium, Reading RG20FL at 11.30 am on12 May 2011.
The map shows the location of the conference centre, and details ofhow to reach it.
Refreshments Tea and coffee will be available before the HOW TO GET THERE Meeting.
Light refreshments will be available after theMeeting.
By train Registration and security There will be a free bus service Please allow enough time for registration between Reading Central ahead of the Meeting.
The use of cameras and Station bus stop WA and the other recording equipment is not permitted.
Madejski Stadium journey time READING READING approximately 15 minutes.
CENTRAL TOWN CENTRE Shareholders with disabilities The Meeting will be held in the Princess Suite Alternatively, taxis are available on the first floor.
from the rank outside the main entrance ofReading Lift access is available within the venue.
Central Station journey time approximately 10-15 minutes.
The venue is fully accessible with wheelchair access at the entrance and a wheelchair By car accessible lift to the meeting room.
From the M4 Junction 11, take the ROYAL BERKSHIRE HOSPITAL A33 to Reading and follow the Anyone accompanying a shareholder who signs to the Madejski Stadium isina wheelchair or otherwise in need of approximate distance 1.9 miles.
assistance will be admitted to the Meeting.
From Reading Town Centre, An induction loop will be available in take the A33 and follow signs to thePrincess Suite for people with the Madejski Stadium and M4 ROYAL hearingdifficulties.
CONFERENCE CENTRE Free parking is available at the Conference Centre.
The telephone number of the Conference Centre is 0118 968 1333.
MADEJSKI STADIUM M4 THE WEST & BRISTOL M4 SLOUGH M25 & LONDON www.
com BG Group A year of delivery STATION HILL O A D 4 9 2 4 A 3 A A A 4 1 5 5 A 3 7 2 B 3 455 A 3 2 9 Our vision A world leader in natural gas We are a leading natural gas company in the global energy market operating responsibly and delivering value to our shareholders.
We do this by connecting competitively priced resources to Natural gas is our business.
We are a leading natural high-value markets.
BGGroup was formed following the demergers of British Gas gas company in the global energy market operating and BG plc.
Two other companies operate responsibly and delivering value to our shareholders.
as a result of the demergers: Centrica plc and National Grid plc.
More information, We do this by connecting competitively priced resources including contact information for Centrica to high-value markets.
and National Grid, can be found at www.
com demerger BGGroup is not British Gas BGGroup is not British Gas, the UK supplier of gas, electricity and home services.
The British Gas business in the UK is owned and operated by Centrica plc.
Any British Gas service or shareholder enquiries must be directed toCentrica plc, not BGGroup.
Our performance Total operating profit Total results Business performance Business performance $5 998m $6 925m 9% 2009 $6 275m 2009 $6 330m Earnings per share Total results continuing operations Business performance Business performance 100.1 cents 118.7 cents 18% 2009 98.5 cents 2009 100.9 cents Dividend per share 21.60 cents 13.66 pence 10% 2009 19.63 cents 2009 12.35 pence Business review and Legal notice Business performance excludes discontinued This Annual Report and Accounts has been The Companies Act 2006 the Act requires the Board of 4 operations, disposals, certain re-measurements and printed on Think Bright paper.
Thispaper Directors to produce a Directors report pages 2 to 75 including impairments as exclusion of these items provides is made from 50% recovered fibre and is a Business review pages 2 to 43 and to obtain an Auditors readers with a clear and consistent presentation report page 78.
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules require fully recyclable.
It has been independently of the underlying operating performance of the the Board of Directors to produce a Management report Groups ongoing business.
Unless otherwise stated, certified according to the rules of the pages 2 to 75.
Particular care should be taken when assessing financial information for the Group and its business elements of the Business review that relate to future Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
The developments and the principal risks and uncertainties facing segments presented in the Business review pulps used are 100% ECF Elemental the Group, and readers should refer to the Principal risks and isbased on BGGroups business performance.
uncertainties and Legal notice of this Report for additional Chlorine Free and it is manufactured at Totaloperating profit includes BGGroups share of information.
pre-tax results from joint ventures and associates.
amill that has been accredited ISO14001 For our full Legal notice please see See Presentation of non-GAAP measures, and BS EN ISO9001.
The inks used are all page 146 page 144.
See also Segmental analysis and results vegetable oil-based.
presentation, note 2, page 91, and Earnings per For a discussion of the Principal risks and Front cover ordinary share, note 10, page 106, for a reconciliation uncertainties facing the business please see Lomond platform, North Sea, UK of the differences between business performance pages 34-39 see page 21 and totalresults.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 A year of delivery Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BG Group plc 100 Thames Valley Park Drive Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT United Kingdom www.
com Registered in England & Wales No.
3690065 Designed and produced by Addison, www.
co. uk Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral
