Shareholder information 148 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shareholder information Managing your shareholding Dividends ShareGift, a charity administered byThe Orr BGGroup ordinary shares are listed on the Dividends are announced in US Dollars but are Mackintosh Foundation.
Please askEquiniti for London Stock Exchange and trade under the paid in Pounds Sterling.
Holders of American a ShareGift transfer form.
Information is also symbol BG.
L. Depositary Receipts are paid in US Dollars.
available on the ShareGiftwebsite at www.
org BGGroups shareholder register is maintained The Pound Sterling amount payable per share by our registrar, Equiniti.
For queries relating to will be fixed at the same time as the US Dollar BGGroup corporate individual savings your shareholding, please contact Equiniti.
The rate of exchange accounts ISAs used to determine the Pound Sterling amount Information is available from Rensburg Contact details equivalent is theaverage of the three business Sheppards Investment Management Ltd, Telephone: 0871 384 2064 days prior tothe announcement of any dividend.
ThePlaza, 100 Old Hall Street, Liverpool L3 9AB 44 121 415 7029 outside UK Telephone: 0151 237 2160.
Information is also Dividends will be paid on the same day available from the website Website: www.
co. uk whether the shares are held directly or through www.
co. uk the American Depositary Receipt facility.
com Low-cost share dealing services Dividend payments directly into your Information on a range of low-cost Address: E quiniti, Aspect House, bank account sharedealing services is available from Spencer Road, Lancing, Dividend payments can be paid directly into Equinition0845 603 7037 or at West Sussex your UK bank or building society account on www.
com dealing BN99 6DA the payment date, and a consolidated tax voucher will be issued at the end of each tax Annual General Meeting Calls to this number are charged at 8 pence per minute from a BT landline.
Call charges from other networks may vary.
Direct dividend payments help BGGroup The BG Group Annual General Meeting will be improve its efficiency by reducing postage, held atthe Royal Berkshire Conference Centre, BGGroup American Depositary Receipts ADRs printing and cheque clearance costs.
They also Madejski Stadium, Reading RG2 0FL on are listed on the US over-the-counter market help BGGroup trace shareholders for whom 12May2011 at 11.30 am.
known as OTCQX International Premier and itdoes not have a current address.
To register trade under the symbol BRGYY.
for this service please contact Equiniti or The Notice of Meeting, together with details download aform from our website by going to ofthe business to be conducted at the BGGroups ADR register is maintained by our www.
com investorrelations Meeting is available on our website Transfer Agent, JP Morgan Chase Bank: shareholderservices and clicking on Registrar.
Telephone: 1 800 990 1135 US residents If you live overseas, a service has been 1 651 453 2128 outside USA established to provide shareholders in over Voting electronically 30countries with the opportunity to receive All shareholders can appoint proxies for Website: www.
com BGGroup dividends in their local currency.
theAnnual General Meeting electronically Foran administration fee, shareholders can atwww.
com have their dividends automatically converted shareholders who have already registered from Pound Sterling into their local currency withShareview can appoint a proxy by Address: JP Morgan Chase Bank, N. A. and paid into their bank account.
For further loggingon to www.
co. uk POBox 64504, St Paul, details, please contact Equiniti or visit MN55164-0504 USA www.
co. uk Shareview Electronic communications Consolidated tax vouchers www.
co. uk The Companies Act 2006, and the Articles of Shareholders who have elected to have their Association of BGGroup, allow BG Groups dividends paid directly into their bank account This is a free, secure online site where youcan: website to be used to communicate with receive just one tax voucher each year covering access information about your shareholding, shareholders, provided that shareholders have both the interim and final dividend payments.
including balance movements: agreed to thisor are deemed to have agreed to For those shareholders who have made such this.
Shareholders may receive notification by an election, a consolidated tax voucher is see an indicative value of your shareholding: emailor by post that documents are available enclosed with this report and covers all view information on recent dividend payments: to view on the website.
Using electronic dividends paid during the UK 2010 11 tax year.
communications reduces printing, paper Ifyou have more than one shareholder update your records if you change your name andpostage costs and has a positive impact accountin the same name s, you will receive or address: on theenvironment.
aseparate tax voucher in respect of those set up a dividend mandate or change your shareholdings in addition to the one enclosed.
existing mandate details: and Shareholders who have received notification Shareholders wishing to receive a tax voucher ofavailability of a document on the in respect of each dividend payment should sign up to receive communications by email.
Companys website are entitled to request contact Equiniti.
from Equiniti, free of charge, ahard copy of To register for this service, visit any such document at any time.
Shareholders Gifting your shares www.
co. uk you will need your can also revoke their consent to receive To transfer your shares to another member of shareholder reference number, which can electronic communications at any time your family as a gift, please contact Equiniti for befound on your dividend tax voucher or bycontacting Equiniti.
If you have a small number onyour proxy voting form.
of shares and the dealing costs or minimum fee makes it uneconomical to sell them, you may like to donate them to charity through www.
com BG Group A year of delivery Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 149 Shareholder profile Boiler room scams Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone Analysis of shareholders calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically overseas-based Number of Number brokers who target UK shareholders, as at 31 December 2010 shareholders of shares m offeringto sell them what often turn out Nominees and institutional investors 13 222 3 298 tobeworthless or high-risk shares in UK or Individuals 616 848 308 overseas investments.
These operations are 630 070 3 606 commonly known as boilerroom scams.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary Number of Number Range of shareholdings shareholders of shares ofanyunsolicited advice, offers to buy shares m at adiscount or offers of free company reports.
uk and selecting FSA register: 630 070 3 606 and report the matter to the FSA either bycalling Group financial calendar 0300 500 5000 or visiting www.
uk Event Type Date 2010 final dividend Ex-dividend 13 Apr 2011 Details of any share-dealing facilities that 2010 final dividend Record date 15 Apr 2011 BGGroup endorses will be included in First quarter 2011 results Announcement 10 May 2011 theGroups mailings or made available at 2011 Annual General Meeting Meeting 12 May 2011 a b www.
com 2010 final dividend Dividend paid UK and US ADR 20 May 2011 b Second quarter 2011 results Announcement 26 Jul 2011 b 2011 interim dividend Ex-dividend Aug 2011 b 2011 interim dividend Record date Aug 2011 a b 2011 interim dividend Dividend paid UK and US ADR Sep 2011 a Following the move to declare all dividends in US Dollars, both ordinary share and ADR dividend payments will be made on the same day.
Actual dates will be confirmed on the BGGroup website in due course.
com investors to findout more information on our latest financial results, reports, share price, financialcalendar and shareholder services.
You can also find out how to receive future shareholder communications electronically, and can access UK share price and dividendcalculators, as well as frequently asked shareholder questions.
