Shareholder information 144 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Presentation of non-GAAP measures BGGroup publishes certain additional BGGroup also uses financial instruments, including Net borrowings or funds and return on information in a non-statutory format in order derivatives, to manage foreign exchange and average capital employed to provide readers with an increased insight interest rate exposure.
These instruments are BGGroup provides an analysis of the amounts into the underlying performance of the required to be recognised at fair value or amortised included within net borrowings or funds as business.
The measures the Group uses are cost on the balance sheet in accordance with this is an important liquidity measure for explained below.
Most of these instruments have been theGroup.
designated either as hedges of foreign exchange Business Performance movements associated with the Groups net Return on average capital employed Business Performance excludes investments in foreign operations, or as hedges represents profit before tax excluding  and disposals, certain of interest rate risk.
Where these instruments disposals, re-measurements and impairments re-measurements and impairments cannot be designated as hedges under IAS 39, plus net interest payable on net borrowings, seebelow as exclusion of these items unrealised movements in fair value are recorded asa percentage of average capital employed.
provides aclear and consistent presentation inthe income statement and disclosed separately Further information on these measures is ofthe underlying operating performance of as disposals, re-measurements and impairments.
provided on page 141. the Groups ongoingbusiness.
BGGroup uses commodity instruments to manage price Realised gains and losses relating to the exposures associated with its marketing instruments referred to above are included in andoptimisation activity in the UK and USA.
This presentation best This activity enables the Group to take reflects the underlying performance of the advantage of commodity price movements.
business since it distinguishes between the Itis considered more appropriate to include temporary timing differences associated with both unrealised and realised gains and re-measurements under IAS 39 rules and lossesarising from the mark-to-market of actual realised gains and losses.
derivatives associated with this activity in Business Performance.
BGGroup has also separately identified profits and losses associated with the disposal of Disposals, certain re-measurements non-current assets and impairments of andimpairments non-current assets as they require separate BGGroups commercial arrangements for disclosure in order to provide a clearer marketing gas include the use of long-term gas understanding of the results for the period.
While the activity surrounding Fora reconciliation between the overall results these contracts involves the physical delivery and Business Performance and details of of gas, certain UK gas sales contracts are disposals, re-measurements and impairments, classified as derivatives under the rules of see note 2, page 91 and note 5, page 102. International Accounting Standard IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Joint ventures and associates Measurement, issued by the International Under International Financial Reporting Accounting Standards Board, and are required Standards, the results from jointly controlled to be measured at fair value at the balance entities joint ventures and associates, sheet date.
Unrealised gains and losses on accounted for under the equity method, are these contracts reflect the comparison required to be presented net of finance costs between current market gas prices and the and tax on the face of the income statement.
actual prices to be realised under the gas sales Given the relevance of these businesses within contracts and are disclosed separately as BGGroup, the results of joint ventures and disposals, re-measurements andimpairments.
associates are presented before interest and tax, and after tax.
This approach provides BGGroup also uses commodity instruments additional information on the source of tomanage certain price exposures in respect BGGroups operating profits.
For a of optimising the timing and location of its reconciliation between operating profit and physical gas and Liquefied Natural Gas earnings, including and excluding the results commitments.
These instruments are also ofjoint ventures and associates, see note 2, required to be measured at fair value at the page 91. balance sheet date under IAS 39 and, where practical, have been designated as formal Exchange rates and prices hedges.
However, IAS 39 does not always allow BGGroup also discloses certain information, the matching of fair values to the economically asindicated, at constant US$ UK exchange hedged value of therelated commodity, rates and upstream prices.
The presentation resulting in unrealised movements in fair value ofresults in this manner is intended to provide being recorded in the income statement.
additional information to explain further the These movements in fair value, together with underlying trends in the business.
The disclosure any unrealised gains and losses associated re-calculates the current year profit on the basis with discontinued hedge accounting that the US$ UK exchange rate and the relationships that continue to represent upstream commodity prices were the same as economic hedges, are disclosed separately as inthe previous year, providing a comparable disposals, re-measurements and impairments.
base in respect of these two factors.
com BG Group A year of delivery
