Shareholder information 146 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Legal notice Certain statements included in this Annual Explanatory note for US investors Report and Accounts contain forward-looking relating to gas and oil reserves information concerning the Groups strategy, and resources operations, financial performance or condition, BGGroup continues voluntarily to use the SEC outlook, growth opportunities or circumstances definition of proved reserves to report proved in the countries, sectors or markets in which the gas and oil reserves in this Annual Report and Group operates.
BGGroup also voluntarily adopted looking statements involve uncertainty because the SEC definition of probable reserves in 2010 they depend on future circumstances, and and that is used, where appropriate, in the relate to events, not all of which are within the Report.
For further details of BGGroups Companys control or can be predicted by the proved reserves as at 31 December 2010, and Company.
Although the Company believes that related supplemental gas and oil information, the expectations reflected in such forwardsee Supplementary information gas and oil, looking statements are reasonable, no on page 132.
This Report also contains assurance can be given that such expectations additional information about other BGGroup will prove to have been correct.
Actual results gas and oilreserves and resources that would could differ materially from those set out in the not be permitted in SEC filings.
For a description explanation of terms used in connection with of factors that may affect our business, such additional reserves and resources financial performance or results of operations, information, refer to page 132. we urge you to look at the Principal risks and uncertainties included in this Annual Report and Accounts.
No part of these results constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, an invitation or inducement to invest in BGGroup plc or any other entity, and must not be relied upon in any way in connection with any investment decision.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
References in this Report to other reports or materials, such as a website address, have been provided to direct the reader to other sources of BGGroup information which may be of interest.
Neither the content of BGGroups website nor any website accessible by hyperlinks to BGGroups website nor suchadditional materials are incorporated in, or form part of, this Report.
BGGroup is subject to the regulatory requirements of the Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom.
Reference conditions 2011 Brent oil price $70 bbl US Henry Hub $5.5 mmbtu US$ UK exchange rates of $1.5:1 US$ A$ exchange rates of $1:$AUD1.2 All production includes fuel gas www.
com BG Group A year of delivery
