Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 53 Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by Notes the Association of Investment Companies AIC in January 2003 as revised in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements 1.
General Information of IFRS, then the Directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the Alliance Trust PLC was incorporated in the United Kingdom under SORP.
The Group and the Company have prepared the financial the Companies Acts 1862-1886.
The address of the registered statements under the revised provisions save for the matters noted office is given on page 88.
The nature of the Groups operations below.
The Company allocates direct costs, including expenses and its principal activities are a global investment trust.
incidental to the purchase and sale of investments and incentive Critical accounting estimates and judgements awards deemed to be performance related pursuant to the SORP against capital profits.
However, the Company does not comply The preparation of the financial statements necessarily requires with the recommendation of the SORP that either a proportion the exercise of judgement both in application of accounting of all indirect expenditure or no indirect expenditure is allocated policies which are set out below and in the selection of against capital profits.
The Company allocates indirect expenditure assumptions used in the calculation of estimates.
These estimates against revenue profits save that two thirds of the costs of bank and judgements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are indebtedness, an indirect cost, are allocated against capital profits.
continually evaluated based on historical experience and other The allocation of the costs of bank indebtedness reflects the long factors.
However, actual results may differ from these estimates.
term return expected from the Companys investment portfolio.
The most significantly affected components of the financial statements and associated critical judgements are as follows: Adopted IFRSs Valuation of unlisted investments The following are applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 1st February 2009 and have been applied to the current Investments which are not listed or which are not frequently traded year Company and Group financial statements.
are stated at Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their estimate, the Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques IFRS 8- Operating segments has had an impact on the Group and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the consolidated financial statements in the enhanced disclosure of same or similar instruments.
Where no reliable fair value can be financial information on operating segments.
estimated, investments may be carried at cost less any provision Amendments to IFRS 7- Financial instruments have had an for impairment.
With respect specifically to investments in private impact on the Company and the Group consolidated financial equity, whether through funds or partnerships, the Directors rely statements in the disclosure of the valuation of financial on unaudited valuations of the underlying listed investments as instruments.
supplied by the managers of those funds or partnerships.
The Directors regularly review the principles applied by the managers The provisions of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements to those valuations to ensure they are in compliance with the regarding presentation of a Company and Group Statement of above policies.
Comprehensive Income and Statement of Changes in Equity.
The following were also applicable to the current financial Defined benefit scheme year but have no impact on the Company or Group Financial The estimation of the expected cash flows used in the calculation Statements: of defined benefit schemes liabilities includes a number of assumptions around mortality and inflation rates applicable to Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of assets defined benefits.
More detail is given in note 26 of the financial Amendments to IAS 39 Financial  and statements.
The Directors take actuarial advice when selecting measurement these assumptions and when selecting the discount rate used to calculate the defined benefit scheme liabilities.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Share based payments relating to vesting conditions and cancellations.
Amendments to IAS 38 Intangible assets relating to costs 2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies included in valuation.
Basis of accounting Amendments to IAS 40 Investment property relating to Both the parent Company financial statements and the Group property under construction.
financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis Amendments to IAS 23 Borrowing costs relating to in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the capitalisation of borrowing costs associated with the IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRSs.
development of intangible assets, property, plant or equipment.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost Amendments to IAS 32 Financial statements - presentation to basis, except that investments and investment properties are stated improve the accounting for and disclosure of puttable financial at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out instruments.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of 54 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Amendments to IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment Presentation of income statement relating to the routine sale of assets held for rental.
In order better to reflect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, Amendments to IAS 19 Employee benefits relating to supplementary information which analyses the income statement negative past service costs and curtailments.
between items of a revenue and capital nature has been IAS 20 Government grants presented alongside the income statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under section Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial 833 of the Companies Act 2006, net capital returns may not be statements relating to the cost of a subsidiary on first time distributed by way of dividend.
adoption of IFRS and the measurement of investments held for sale under IFRS5 in separate financial statements.
Goodwill IAS 28 Investments in associates Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of IAS 29 Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies the identifiable assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, associate or IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures jointly controlled entity at the date of the acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently IFRS not yet applied measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
The following standards and interpretations which have been Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for adopted by the European Union but are not effective for the year impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised ended 31 January 2010 and have not been applied in preparing immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
the financial statements, are relevant to the financial statements of For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group and the Company: each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from IAS 7 Statement of cash flows which is applicable for the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which accounting periods beginning on or after 1st January 2010. goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be IAS 17 Leases which is applicable for accounting periods impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit beginning on or after 1st January 2010. is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss The IASB published a revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill and related revisions to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit proFinancial Statements following the completion in January 2008 rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
of its project on the acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries.
The On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled standards provide new guidance on accounting for changes in entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the interests in subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition will comprise determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
only consideration paid to vendors for equity: other costs will be Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to expensed immediately.
Groups will only account for goodwill on IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject acquisition of a subsidiary: subsequent changes in interest will be to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off recognised in equity and only on a loss of control will there be a to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated profit or loss on disposal to be recognised in income.
The changes and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July on disposal.
These changes will affect the Groups accounting for future acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries.
Revenue recognition No impact is expected from any standards or interpretations Dividend income from investments is recognised when the which have been endorsed by the European Union and are shareholders rights to receive payment have been established, available for early adoption, but which have not been adopted.
Basis of consolidation Where the Group has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the amount of cash dividend The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of statements of the Company and entities controlled by the shares received over the amount of cash dividend foregone is Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 January each year.
recognised as a capital gain in the income statement.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an invested entity so as to Rental income from investment property and income from obtain benefits from its activities.
Where the Company has an mineral rights is recognised on a time apportioned basis.
investment in over 50% of the issued share capital of an Open Interest income is accrued on a time apportioned basis, by Ended Investment Company OEIC, the Company will treat reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest the OEIC as a subsidiary.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 55 future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset Share based payments to that assets net carrying amount.
The Group operates two share based payment schemes, the Special dividends receivable are treated as repayment of capital or All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP, and the Long as income depending on the facts of each particular case.
The cost of the AESOP is recognised as a revenue cost in the year.
The grant date fair value of Underwriting commission is recognised as earned.
options granted to employees under the LTIP is recognised as Savings and pension plan transaction charges and set-up fees an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, are accounted for on the date on which the underlying over the period in which the employees become unconditionally transaction occurs.
Annual charges are applied over the period to entitled to the options.
The amount recognised as an expense which they relate.
may be adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options Expenses connected with rental income and mineral rights are that vest.
For share based compensation schemes settled by the included as administrative expenses.
Company a recharge equal to the cost during the period is made to subsidiary companies.
Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than Sterling are recorded at Pension costs the rates of exchange applicable to the dates of the transactions.
Employer contributions to pension arrangements for staff are At each balance sheet date, monetary items and non-monetary charged against revenue.
assets and liabilities that are fair valued and are denominated Contributions in respect of the defined benefit scheme are in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on calculated by reference to actuarial valuations carried out for the the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation Trustees at intervals of not more than three years, and represent a are included as capital net profit or loss for the period where charge to cover the accruing liabilities on a continuing basis.
investments are classified as fair value through profit or loss.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full through equity in Foreign exchange differences which arose on the translation of one the period in which they occur.
subsidiary, AT Asset Management Asia Pacific Limited, into Sterling have previously been recognised directly in the Translation Reserve, Taxation which is a separate component of equity, and reported in the The Company carries on its business as an investment trust and Statement of comprehensive income.
The subsidiary was liquidated conducts its affairs so as to qualify as such under the provisions of in the period and the exchange differences have been recognised as Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. a capital gain in the consolidated income statement.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable Expenses and deferred tax.
All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
In respect of The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
the analysis between revenue and capital items presented within Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income the income statement, all expenses have been presented as statement because it excludes items of income or expense that revenue items except as follows: are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for Expenses which are incidental to the acquisition of an current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or investment are included within the cost of that investment.
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Expenses which are incidental to the disposal of an investment In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation are deducted from the disposal proceeds of the investment.
method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against The Directors have determined to allocate annual bonus and capital returns in the supplementary information in the income Incentive Plan costs which relate to the achievement of investment statement is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable manager performance objectives and total shareholder return income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented performance objectives against capital profits and those that relate in the revenue return column of the income statement, then no to the achievement of other corporate targets or job performance tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable The Directors have determined to allocate two thirds of the temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to cost of bank indebtedness incurred to finance investment the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against capital profits with the balance being allocated against against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill or from Operating leases the initial recognition other than in a business combination of Charges for operating leases are debited to the income statement other asset and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the on an accruals basis.
Note 27 Operating lease commitments tax profit nor the accounting profit.
discloses the commitments to pay charge for leases expiring within 1, 2-5 and over 5 years.
56 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary Investments in property are initially recognised at cost and differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates then valued at fair value based on an independent professional and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able valuation at the reporting dates, with changes in fair value to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is recognised through the income statement.
Disposals of probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the investment property are recognised when contracts for sale have foreseeable future.
been exchanged and the sale has been completed.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each In respect of unquoted instruments, or where the market for balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer a financial instrument is not active, fair value is established by probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all using valuation techniques, which may include using recent or part of the asset to be recovered.
arms length market transactions between knowledgeable, willing parties, if available, reference to the current fair value of another Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset analysis and option pricing models.
Where there is a valuation is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income technique commonly used by market participants to price the statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to provide directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market transactions, in equity.
Where no reliable fair value can be Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally estimated for such unquoted equity instruments, they are carried enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax at cost, subject to any provision for impairment.
liabilities and where they relate to income taxes levied by the Investments in subsidiaries are valued at net asset value as same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current the Directors consider this to approximate to the fair value of tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Neither the Company or the Group recognise deferred tax assets Valuation of mineral rights is based upon the gross income or liabilities on capital profits or losses on the basis that the received from the asset in the previous twelve months multiplied investment trust status of the Company means no tax is due on by appropriate factors for gas and oil.
Foreign exchange gains and losses for fair-value designated Financial instruments investments are included within the changes in its fair value.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the The additional disclosures required under IFRS 7 with regard to Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the valuation techniques have been applied in the current year.
contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group shall offset financial assets and financial liabilities if the Group has a legally Cash and cash equivalents enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and interests Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and demand deposits and intends to settle on a net basis.
with banks including certain bank accounts held in foreign IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure has been adopted.
The currencies which are readily convertible to sterling and are subject purpose of the standard is to introduce disclosure requirements to insignificant risk of change in value.
on the significance of financial instruments to an entitys Other receivables financial position and performance, the risks arising from these Other receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their instruments, and how the entity manages those risks.
nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated Investments irrecoverable amounts.
Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade Office premises date where a purchase or sale is made under a contract whose Office premises are valued by chartered surveyors on the basis of terms require delivery within the timeframe established by the market value in accordance with the RICS Appraisal and Valuation market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including Standards.
No depreciation has been charged on these assets as, transaction costs.
in the opinion of the Board, any provision for depreciation would Investments are principally designated as fair value through be immaterial in relation to the expenses for the year and the profit and loss upon initial recognition not including transaction assets of the Company.
Listed investments are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which is either the bid price or the last traded Intangible assets price, depending on the convention of the exchange on which The external costs associated with the development and the investment is quoted.
Listed investments include Collective procurement of significant technology systems are capitalised Investment Schemes authorised in the UK.
These are valued at when it is probable that the expected future economic benefit closing prices.
of that system will flow to the entity.
They are stated at cost less Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 57 accumulated amortisation.
On the completion of each project Translation reserve amortisation is charged so as to write off the value of these assets This reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from over periods up to five years.
the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
Motor vehicles and other fixed assets Revaluation reserve Motor vehicles and certain other fixed assets are held at cost less This reserve is used to record changes in the valuation of the accumulated depreciation, which is charged to write off the value Companys office premises.
A downward revaluation in office of the asset over three years.
premises is charged to the income statement to the extent that there is no earlier upward revaluation in this reserve for those Financial liabilities and equity premises.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements Merger reserve entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences This reserve was created as part of the arrangements for the a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all acquisition of the assets of Second Alliance Trust PLC.
Capital Redemption reserve Bank borrowings This reserve was created on the cancellation and repayment of Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the the Companys preference share capital.
Further amounts in proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, the current year reflect the nominal value of the buy back and including premiums payable on settlement or redemption cancellation of a portion of the share capital of the Company.
and direct issue costs, are accounted for through the income Revenue reserves statement on an accruals basis using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument Net revenue profits and losses of the Company and its subsidiaries to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which and the fair value costs of share based payments which are they arise.
revenue in nature are dealt with in this reserve.
Other payables Other payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Buy backs and cancellation of shares The costs of aquiring own shares for cancellation together with any associated trading costs are written back to distributable reserves.
Share capital is reduced by the nominal value of the shares bought back with an equivilant entry made to the capital redemption reserve.
Realised and unrealised capital reserves A description of each of the reserves follows: Capital reserve The following are dealt with through this reserve: Gains and losses on realisation of investments Changes in fair value of investments Realised exchange differences of a capital nature Purchases of shares by the Trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust Amounts recognised in relation to share based payments which are capital in nature Amounts by which other assets and liabilities valued at fair value differ from their book value Buy back and cancellation of own shares.
