Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 53 Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by Notes the Association of Investment Companies AIC in January 2003 as revised in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements 1.
General Information of IFRS, then the Directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the Alliance Trust PLC was incorporated in the United Kingdom under SORP.
The Group and the Company have prepared the financial the Companies Acts 1862-1886.
The address of the registered statements under the revised provisions save for the matters noted office is given on page 88.
The nature of the Groups operations below.
The Company allocates direct costs, including expenses and its principal activities are a global investment trust.
incidental to the purchase and sale of investments and incentive Critical accounting estimates and judgements awards deemed to be performance related pursuant to the SORP against capital profits.
However, the Company does not comply The preparation of the financial statements necessarily requires with the recommendation of the SORP that either a proportion the exercise of judgement both in application of accounting of all indirect expenditure or no indirect expenditure is allocated policies which are set out below and in the selection of against capital profits.
The Company allocates indirect expenditure assumptions used in the calculation of estimates.
These estimates against revenue profits save that two thirds of the costs of bank and judgements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are indebtedness, an indirect cost, are allocated against capital profits.
continually evaluated based on historical experience and other The allocation of the costs of bank indebtedness reflects the long factors.
However, actual results may differ from these estimates.
term return expected from the Companys investment portfolio.
The most significantly affected components of the financial statements and associated critical judgements are as follows: Adopted IFRSs Valuation of unlisted investments The following are applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 1st February 2009 and have been applied to the current Investments which are not listed or which are not frequently traded year Company and Group financial statements.
are stated at Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their estimate, the Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques IFRS 8- Operating segments has had an impact on the Group and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the consolidated financial statements in the enhanced disclosure of same or similar instruments.
Where no reliable fair value can be financial information on operating segments.
estimated, investments may be carried at cost less any provision Amendments to IFRS 7- Financial instruments have had an for impairment.
With respect specifically to investments in private impact on the Company and the Group consolidated financial equity, whether through funds or partnerships, the Directors rely statements in the disclosure of the valuation of financial on unaudited valuations of the underlying listed investments as instruments.
supplied by the managers of those funds or partnerships.
The Directors regularly review the principles applied by the managers The provisions of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements to those valuations to ensure they are in compliance with the regarding presentation of a Company and Group Statement of above policies.
Comprehensive Income and Statement of Changes in Equity.
The following were also applicable to the current financial Defined benefit scheme year but have no impact on the Company or Group Financial The estimation of the expected cash flows used in the calculation Statements: of defined benefit schemes liabilities includes a number of assumptions around mortality and inflation rates applicable to Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of assets defined benefits.
More detail is given in note 26 of the financial Amendments to IAS 39 Financial  and statements.
The Directors take actuarial advice when selecting measurement these assumptions and when selecting the discount rate used to calculate the defined benefit scheme liabilities.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Share based payments relating to vesting conditions and cancellations.
Amendments to IAS 38 Intangible assets relating to costs 2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies included in valuation.
Basis of accounting Amendments to IAS 40 Investment property relating to Both the parent Company financial statements and the Group property under construction.
financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis Amendments to IAS 23 Borrowing costs relating to in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the capitalisation of borrowing costs associated with the IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRSs.
development of intangible assets, property, plant or equipment.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost Amendments to IAS 32 Financial statements - presentation to basis, except that investments and investment properties are stated improve the accounting for and disclosure of puttable financial at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out instruments.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of
