20 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Services Subsidiaries We anticipate adding further equity funds this year, based Alliance Trust on the strengths upon which we can draw within the Asset Management Companys investment team.
By the end of 2010, we anticipate having established our core range of equity funds.
Alliance Trust Asset Management has been established as Following the recruitment of our team of Fixed Income a natural extension to the Companys business by offering professionals, we will also actively pursue opportunities in third party investors the opportunity to access directly fixed income markets.
individual areas of expertise within our investment team.
Our fund managers follow the same long-term investment The strength of our long-term investment philosophy philosophy in managing third party assets which they and targeted, consistent, above-average performance are already employ in managing the Companys assets.
expected over time to lead to substantial growth in assets under management.
This will enhance the Companys Our initial aim is to offer a focused range of investment ability to attract key investment talent and will benefit funds which will meet our clients needs.
We established shareholders by spreading operating costs over a larger pool our first open-ended funds, Alliance Trust North American of assets.
Equity Fund and Alliance Trust UK Equity Income Fund, in February 2009.
Our North American Equity Fund has been awarded an A rating by Old Broad Street Research, one of the UKs leading fund rating agencies.
In December, we also established the Alliance Trust European Equity Fund.
The focus of our distribution activity over the period has been to promote the establishment of this new business area to major fund buyers in the UK.
We have also received good support from clients of Alliance Trust Savings.
Third party assets under management totalled 11.6 million at the year end.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 21 Alliance Trust Savings generated total income for the year Alliance Trust Savings of 9.9m compared to 16.4m last year.
The reduction Over the course of the year, an extensive review of in income was driven primarily by the unprecedented Alliance Trust Savings business was undertaken, led by reduction in UK Base Rate to 0.5% at the start of the year.
its Chief Executive Officer, Robert Burgess.
As a result Operating costs for the year were tightly controlled and a number of new appointments of highly experienced remained relatively flat at 17.7m 17.9m, despite onemarket practitioners have been made to strengthen the off costs relating to redundancy, the move to Marketgait senior management team.
Administration procedures and the investment in people and automated processes.
and processes in both pension administration and share Customer numbers have remained stable at 57,000, dealing services have been enhanced, with a firm focus on while the business focused on improving its operational delivering quality service, value to customers and scalability.
Alliance Trust Savings is one of the leading providers of Self Customers of Alliance Trust Savings play an important role Invested Personal Pensions SIPP in the UK, offering both in increasing demand for the Companys shares and also for an Investment Dealing SIPP and a Full SIPP.
In November, Alliance Trust Asset Management Funds.
Customers now hold we were awarded the title of Low Cost SIPP Provider of in excess of 21% of the share capital of Alliance Trust and we the Year by FT Investor Chronicle.
We were also awarded continue to offer significant benefits for customers who are Best Stocks & Shares ISA Provider by What Investment?
shareholders through the discounted dealing schemes.
magazine, for the third consecutive year.
The focus now for Alliance Trust Savings is to build on Our share dealing services offer a wide investment choice the achievements of 2009 to deliver long-term value to and fully transparent flat rate charges.
fund platforms, we do not keep commissions from fund management groups but rebate all commissions received direct to our customers.
We believe that with our business model we are now ideally positioned for the fundamental changes to adviser remuneration, which are expected to be implemented at the end of 2012, as a result of the FSAs Retail Distribution Review.
