88 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Incorporation Information Alliance Trust PLC is incorporated in Scotland with the registered number 1731.
The Companys Register of Members is held at for Computershare Investor Services PLC, Lochside House, 7 Lochside Avenue, Edinburgh Park, Edinburgh EH12 9DJ.
shareholders General Enquiries If you have an enquiry about the Company, please contact the Company Secretary at our registered office: 8 West Marketgait, Dundee DD1 1QN Tel: 01382 321000 Fax: 01382 321185 Email: investor@alliancetrust.
co. uk For security and compliance monitoring purposes telephone calls may be recorded.
Investor Relations Our Head of Investor Relations can be contacted at our registered office detailed above.
co. uk contains information about the Company, including daily price and net asset value.
The Investor Relations section of the website contains the terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Registrars Our registrars are: Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH Change of address notifications and registration enquiries for shareholdings registered in your own name should be sent to the Companys registrars at the above address, which should also be contacted if you would like dividends on shares registered in your own name to be sent to your bank or building society account.
You may check your holdings and view other information about Alliance Trust shares registered in your own name at www.
Data Protection The Company is a data controller as defined under the Data Protection Act 1998.
Information received from or about shareholders or investors for example from a stockbroker, whether by telephone or in writing, by fax or by any other electronic or digital means of communication may be processed.
Information held on the Companys Register of Members is, by law, information to which the public may, for a proper purpose, have access and the Company cannot prevent any person inspecting it or having copies of it for such purpose, on payment of the statutory fee.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 89 Electronic Communications will depend upon the movement of the discount premium over the period you own the share, as well as the capital Statement of Investment If you hold your shares in your own name, we are able to performance of the Companys own assets send you annual reports and notices of meetings electronically instead of in paper format.
If you wish to register for this The assets owned by the Company may have exposure Objective and Policy service please log on to www.
htm to currencies other than Sterling.
Changes in market which will provide you with a link to our registrars website.
movements and in rates of exchange may cause the value of your investment to go up or down Taxation Past performance is not a guide to the future.
What you Alliance Trust is a self-managed investment company If you are in any doubt about your liability to tax arising get back will depend on investment performance.
You with investment trust status.
Our objective is to be a from a shareholding in the Company you should seek may not get back the amount you invest.
core investment for investors seeking increasing value Important dates over the long term.
We have no fixed asset allocation Income Tax Our events give us the opportunity to meet and hear from benchmark and we invest in a wide range of asset Dividends paid by the Company carry a tax credit at 10% of our shareholders and clients, and are an ideal occasion the gross dividend.
Dividends are paid net of the tax credit.
to get an update on what is happening at Alliance Trust.
classes throughout the world to achieve our objective.
You can meet senior representatives from the Company If you hold your shares in your own name, the tax voucher Our focus is to generate a real return for shareholders including Katherine Garrett-Cox, our Chief Executive, which you need for your tax records will be sent to the and other key members of our team, and learn about our over the medium to long term by a combination of address we have for you on the register maintained by products and services.
There will be many opportunities Computershare.
The Registrar will send a consolidated capital growth and a rising dividend.
during the event to ask questions.
tax voucher to members after the January quarterly dividend is paid.
Annual General Meeting We pursue our objective by: If your dividends are received by a nominee, such as your The 122nd Annual General Meeting of the Company will be Investing in both quoted and unquoted equities across the globe in stockbrokers nominee, you must contact that person for the held at 11.00am on Friday 21 May 2010 at the Apex City different sectors and industries: tax voucher.
Alliance Trust Savings will automatically supply Quay Hotel, Dundee.
The Notice of Meeting, detailing the Investing internationally in fixed income securities: you with a consolidated income tax voucher for income business of the meeting, is sent to all shareholders.
received for you in the Investment Dealing Account.
Investing in other asset classes and financial instruments, either directly or Financial Calendar through investment vehicles: and Capital Gains Tax Proposed dividend payment dates for the financial year to Investing in subsidiaries and associated businesses which allow us to For investors who purchased shares prior to 31 March 31 January 2011 are on or around: expand into other related activities.
1982, the cost of those shares for capital gains tax purposes 2 August 2010 We are prepared to invest any proportion of the total corporate capital in any of the above is deemed to be the price of the share on that date.
The 1 November 2010 asset classes, subject only to the restrictions imposed on us by the regulatory or fiscal market value of each Alliance Trust PLC ordinary 25p share 31 January 2011 regime within which we operate.
However, we would expect equities to comprise at least on that date was 2.85 which, when adjusted for the split 3 May 2011 50% of our portfolio.
Changes to the asset allocation will be dependent upon attractive on a 10 for 1 basis on 21 June 2006, gives an equivalent investment opportunities being available.
The market value of each Second Investor Forums Alliance Trust PLC ordinary 25p share on 31 March 1982 Where market conditions permit, we will use gearing of not more than 30% of our net was 2.35.
Holders of Second Alliance Trust PLC shares We are pleased to announce that we will be holding 3 assets at any given time.
We can use derivative instruments to hedge, enhance and received 8.7453 ordinary 2.5p shares for each 25p ordinary investor presentations during 2010 around the UK.
protect positions, including currency exposures.
share they held on 20 June 2006 and are treated as though 26 May Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, London they acquired these shares at the same time and at the same cost as the Second Alliance Trust shares they previously 8 June Rougemont Hotel, Exeter held.
This gives an equivalent value of 0.269 per share.
23 November Hilton Hotel, Glasgow Risks Details of these and future events can be found at www.
Registration for the Glasgow If you wish to acquire shares in the Company, you should Investor Forum will commence in October 2010. take professional advice as to whether an investment in our shares is suitable for you.
You should be aware that: Investment should be made for the long term The price of a share will be affected by the supply and demand for it on the London Stock Exchange and may not fully represent the underlying value of the assets of the Company.
The price generally stands below the net asset value of the Company at a discount but it may also stand above it at a premium.
Your capital return Photo credits: Mackins Design Studio.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Contact Alliance Trust PLC, 8 West Marketgait, Dundee DD1 1QN Tel 44 0 1382 321000 Email investor@alliancetrust.
co. uk Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 January Printed by MLG, Edinburgh 2010
