1 Role and responsibilities continued of investment and other major business decisions, including the consideration of capital projects and capital management The Board Governance Document also specifies the role strategies.
Examples of business decisions and issues considered of the Chairman, the membership of the Board and the role by the Board are: and conduct of non-executive Directors.
Further information g[X fT X bY g[X ETiXafg[becX A V X BcXeTg ba.
4. g[X Xagel agb U aW aZ TZeXX`Xagf j g[ E b G agb gb establish an iron ore production joint venture covering The Board Governance Document can be found at both entities Western Australia Iron Ore assets subject www.
to regulatory approval : Ta aiXfg`Xag bY HF $!
& U ba bY VTc gT XkcXaW gheX The matters that the Board has specifically reserved for its to underpin accelerated growth of the Western Australia decision are: Iron Ore business, representing early expenditure for g[X Tccb ag`Xag bY g[X 68B TaW TccebiT bY g[X Tccb ag`Xagf Rapid Growth Project 6: of direct reports to the CEO: g[X `cTVg bY g[X cebcbfXW 4hfgeT Ta ` a aZ gTk.
T ccebiT bY g[X biXeT fgeTgXZl TaW TaahT UhWZXgf g[X :ebhcf T VTf[ bYYXe gb TVdh eX T bY g[X ffhXW of the business: and outstanding common shares of Potash Corporation WXgXe` aTg ba bY `TggXef a TVVbeWTaVX j g[ g[X TccebiXW of Saskatchewan Inc. delegations of authority: The Board is satisfied that it has discharged its obligations Ybe`T WXgXe` aTg baf g[Tg TeX eXdh eXW Ul g[X :ebhcf as set out in the Board Governance Document.
constitutional documents, by statute or by other external regulation.
2 Membership The Board is free to alter the matters reserved for its decision, The Board currently has 11 members.
Of these, 10, including subject to the limitations imposed by the constitutional the Chairman, are independent non-executive Directors.
The non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any Beyond those matters, the Board has delegated all authority to business relationship or other circumstance that could achieve the corporate objective to the CEO, who is free to take all materially interfere with the exercise of objective, unfettered decisions and actions which, in the CEOs judgement, are or independent judgement.
Further information on the process reasonable having regard to the limits imposed by the Board.
for assessing independence is in section 5.3.
The CEO remains accountable to the Board for the authority that is delegated and for the performance of the business.
In March 2010, Jacques Nasser assumed the role of Chairman The Board monitors the decisions and actions of the CEO and following the retirement of Don Argus as Chairman and the performance of the business to gain assurance that progress non-executive Director.
Mr Nasser was confirmed by the Board is being made towards the corporate objective, within the limits as Chairman following a comprehensive 18-month selection it has imposed through the Groups governance assurance process undertaken by the Board as a whole, according to framework.
The Board also monitors the performance of the best practice governance requirements.
The process followed Group and assesses its risk profile through its Committees.
is discussed in more detail in section 5.4.
Reports from each of the Committees are set out in section 5.5.
There were also other changes to the composition of the The CEO is required to report regularly in a spirit of openness Board during the year.
David Morgan and David Jenkins retired and trust on the progress being made by the business.
The Board from the Board in November 2009.
Malcolm Broomhead and and its Committees determine the information required from the Carolyn Hewson joined the Board in March 2010 following CEO and any employee or external party, including the External the earlier retirement of Paul Anderson and Gail fide Planque Auditor.
Open dialogue between individual members of the in January 2010.
Board and the CEO and other employees is encouraged to enable The Board previously determined that it considered that Directors to gain a better understanding of our business.
the Groups best interests were served by conducting the succession process for the Board Chairman and the Risk and Key activities during the year Audit Committee RAC Chairman sequentially.
Following A key activity during the year was Board succession planning completion of the succession planning process for the Board and renewal.
The Board believes that orderly succession and Chairman, the Board has continued the succession planning renewal is in the best interests of the Group.
In August 2009, process for the Chairman of the RAC.
This process for the after an 18-month succession process, the Board announced role of Chairman of the RAC is well progressed and the Board that Jacques Nasser would succeed Don Argus as Chairman.
expects to make an announcement later in FY2011.
Mr Crawford Mr Nasser subsequently assumed the role of Chairman on is standing for election at the 2010 Annual General Meetings 31 March 2010.
Two new non-executive Directors, Malcolm with a view to retiring as RAC Chairman in 2011, when succession Broomhead and Carolyn Hewson, were appointed to the Board planning and transition is complete.
Given the complexity and from 31 March 2010.
Four non-executive Directors retired during size of the Group, and, taking into account that other RAC the year, David Morgan, David Jenkins, Paul Anderson and members are recent appointments, this approach is designed Gail fide Planque.
to facilitate orderly succession and transition for this key role.
The Board strongly believes this approach is in the best interests Another significant activity during the year for the Board has of the Group and its shareholders.
been governing the Group in the context of the challenging global economic environment.
We remain cautious on the short-term outlook for the global economy.
Despite our short-term caution, we remain positive on longer-term prospects, driven by the continuing urbanisation and industrialisation of emerging economies.
This path, however, will not be without volatility, reflecting normal business cycles.
Accordingly, another key activity for the Board during the year was the consideration BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | 131
