11 Shareholder information continued Any part of a dividend paid to a US holder that is not franked 11.5 Taxation and is not CFI will generally be subject to Australian withholding The taxation discussion below describes the material Australian tax unless a specific exemption applies.
income tax, UK tax and US federal income tax consequences to a Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs US holder as hereinafter defined of owning BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares or ADSs or BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares or A US holder who or which is a resident of Australia other ADSs.
Accordingly, the following discussion is not relevant to than certain temporary residents may be liable for income non-US holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares or ADSs tax on any profit on disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs, or BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares or ADSs.
or Australian capital gains tax on the disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs acquired after 19 September 1985.
The discussion is based on the Australian, UK and US tax laws currently in effect, as well as on the double taxation convention No income or other tax is payable on any profit on disposal between Australia and the US the Australian Treaty, the double of ordinary shares or ADSs held by a US holder who or which taxation convention between the UK and the US the UK Treaty is a non-resident of Australia except if the profit is of an and the estate tax convention between the UK and the US the income nature and sourced in Australia, or the sale is subject UKUS Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty.
These laws are subject to Australian capital gains tax.
Under the Australian Treaty, to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
For purposes of this if the profit is sourced in Australia, it will not be taxable in discussion, a US holder is a beneficial owner of ordinary shares Australia if it represents business profits of an enterprise carried or ADSs who is, for US federal income tax purposes: i a citizen on by a US holder entitled to treaty benefits and the enterprise or resident alien of the US, ii a corporation or other entity does not carry on business in Australia through a permanent treated as a corporation for US federal income tax purposes that establishment situated in Australia.
Australian capital gains tax is created or organised under the laws of the US or any political will not generally apply to a disposal of the ordinary shares or subdivision thereof, iii an estate the income of which is subject ADSs by a US holder who or which is a non-resident of Australia to US federal income taxation regardless of its source, or iv unless the shares or ADSs have been acquired after 19 September a trust A if a court within the US is able to exercise primary 1985 and: supervision over its administration and one or more US persons g[X beW aTel f[TeXf be 47Ff [TiX UXXa hfXW Ul g[X HF [b WXe have the authority to control all of its substantial decisions or in carrying on a trade or business through a permanent B that has made a valid election to be treated as a US person establishment in Australia: for tax purposes.
g[X HF [b WXe gbZXg[Xe j g[ TffbV TgXf W eXVg l be aW eXVg l owns or owned 10 per cent or more of the issued share capital We recommend that holders of ordinary shares or ADSs of BHP Billiton Limited at the time of the disposal or throughout consult their own tax advisers regarding the Australian, a 12-month period during the two years prior to the time UK and US federal, state and local tax and other tax of disposal and the underlying value of BHP Billiton Limited consequences of owning and disposing of ordinary shares at the time of disposal is principally derived from taxable and ADSs in their particular circumstances.
Australian real property: or Shareholdings in BHP Billiton Limited g[X HF [b WXe f Ta aW i WhT j[b X XVgXW ba UXVb` aZ Australia taxation a non-resident of Australia to continue to have the ordinary shares or ADSs subject to Australian capital gains tax.
In this section, references to resident and non-resident refer to residence status for Australian income tax purposes.
US taxation Dividends This section describes the material US federal income tax consequences to a US holder of owning ordinary shares or Dividends including other distributions treated as dividends for Australian tax purpose paid by BHP Billiton Limited ADSs.
It applies only to ordinary shares or ADSs that are held as capital assets for tax purposes.
This section does not apply to a US holder who or which is a resident of Australia, or to a non-resident of Australia whose holding is effectively to a holder of ordinary shares or ADSs who is a member of a special class of holders subject to special rules, including connected with a permanent establishment in Australia, may be subject to income tax.
a dealer in securities, a trader in securities that elects to use a mark-to-market method of accounting for its securities Under the Australian Treaty, dividends paid by BHP Billiton Limited holdings, a tax-exempt organisation, a life insurance company, to a US holder who or which is eligible for treaty benefits and a person liable for alternative minimum tax, a person who whose holding is not effectively connected with a permanent actually or constructively owns 10 per cent or more of the establishment in Australia or, in the case of a shareholder who voting stock of BHP Billiton Limited, a person who holds performs independent personal services from a fixed base ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging situated therein, is not connected with that fixed base, may or conversion transaction, or a person whose functional be subject to Australian withholding tax at a rate not exceeding currency is not the US dollar.
15 per cent of such gross dividend.
If a partnership holds the ordinary shares or ADSs, the US federal The payment of Australian income tax by an Australian company, income tax treatment of a partner will generally depend on the such as BHP Billiton Limited, generates a franking credit for status of the partner and the tax treatment of the partnership.
Broadly, an amount of tax paid by the company A partner in a partnership holding the ordinary shares or ADSs flows through to shareholders as a franking credit when should consult its tax adviser with regard to the US federal the company pays a dividend which is franked by the company.
income tax treatment of an investment in the ordinary shares Fully franked dividends paid to non-resident shareholders or ADSs.
are not subject to withholding tax.
This section is based in part upon the representations of the Dividends paid to non-residents of Australia are also exempt Depositary and the assumption that each obligation in the from withholding tax to the extent to which such dividends are deposit agreement and any related agreement will be performed declared by BHP Billiton Limited to be conduit foreign income in accordance with its terms.
CFI is made up of certain amounts that are earned by In general, for US federal income tax purposes, a holder of ADSs BHP Billiton Limited that are not subject to tax in Australia, will be treated as the owner of the ordinary shares represented such as dividends remitted to Australia by foreign subsidiaries.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADSs, and ADSs for ordinary shares, will generally not be subject to US federal income tax.
292 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Dividends will be income from sources outside the US, and 11.5 Taxation continued generally will be passive category income or, in the case Dividends of certain taxpayers, general category income, which are treated separately from each other for the purpose Under US federal income tax laws and subject to the passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, rules discussed below, of computing the foreign tax credit allowable to a US holder.
In general, your ability to use foreign tax credits may a US holder must include in its gross income the gross amount of any dividend paid by BHP Billiton Limited out of its current or be limited and is dependent on your particular circumstances.
US holders should consult their own tax advisers with respect accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
The holder must include any Australian tax to these matters.
withheld from the dividend payment in this gross amount even Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs though the holder does not in fact receive it.
The dividend is taxable to the holder when the holder, in the case of ordinary Subject to the PFIC rules discussed below, a US holder who sells shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs will recognise or constructively receives the dividend.
a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder on shares or realised and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, ADSs in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 will in those ordinary shares or ADSs.
The gain or loss will generally be taxable at the rate applicable to long-term capital gains be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax generally at a rate of 15 per cent provided that the US holder credit limitation purposes.
The capital gain of a non-corporate holds the shares or ADSs for more than 60 days during the US holder is generally taxed at preferential rates where the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend holder has a holding period greater than 12 months in the date and does not enter into certain risk reduction transactions shares or ADSs sold.
There are limitations on the deductibility with respect to the shares or ADSs during the abovementioned of capital losses.
Absent new legislation extending the current rates, dividends paid in taxable years beginning on or after The US dollar value of any foreign currency received upon a sale 1 January 2011, will be subject to ordinary income rates.
or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs will be calculated In addition, a non-corporate US holder that elects to treat the by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date of sale or other dividend income as investment income pursuant to Section disposal or, in the case of a cash basis or electing accrual basis 163 d 4 of the Code will not be eligible for the reduced rate taxpayer, on the settlement date.
A US holder will have a tax of taxation.
In the case of a corporate US holder, dividends basis in the foreign currency received equal to that US dollar on shares and ADSs are taxed as ordinary income and will amount, and generally will recognise foreign currency gain not be eligible for the dividends received deduction generally or loss on a subsequent conversion or other disposal of the allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received foreign currency.
This foreign currency gain or loss generally from other US corporations.
will be treated as US source ordinary income or loss.
Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings Passive Foreign Investment Company PFIC Rules and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, We do not believe that the BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent or ADSs will be treated as stock of a PFIC for US federal income of the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that ordinary shares or ADSs and thereafter as a capital gain.
is made annually at the end of the year and thus may be subject to change.
If BHP Billiton Limited were treated as a PFIC, any gain The amount of any cash distribution paid in any foreign currency realised on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or will be equal to the US dollar value of such currency, calculated ADSs would in general not be treated as a capital gain.
Instead, by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date such a US holder would be treated as if it had realised such gain and distribution is received by the US holder or, in the case of ADSs, certain excess distributions ratably over its holding period for by the Depositary, regardless of whether and when the foreign the ordinary shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest currency is in fact converted into US dollars.
If the foreign tax rate in effect for each such year to which the gain was currency is converted into US dollars on the date received, allocated, together with an interest charge in respect of the tax the US holder generally should not recognise foreign currency attributable to each such year.
In addition, dividends received gain or loss on such conversion.
If the foreign currency is not with respect to ordinary shares or ADSs would not be eligible converted into US dollars on the date received, the US holder for the special tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income will have a basis in the foreign currency equal to its US dollar if BHP Billiton Limited were a PFIC either in the taxable year value on the date received, and generally will recognise foreign of the distribution or the preceding taxable year, but instead currency gain or loss on a subsequent conversion or other would be taxable at rates applicable to ordinary income.
Such foreign currency gain or loss Assuming the shares or ADSs are marketable stock, a US holder generally will be treated as US source ordinary income or loss.
may mitigate the adverse tax consequences described above Subject to certain limitations, Australian tax withheld in by electing to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis accordance with the Australian Treaty and paid over to Australia with respect to such shares or ADSs.
will be creditable against your US federal income tax liability.
Special rules apply in determining the foreign tax credit limitation with respect to dividends that are taxed at the capital gains rate.
To the extent a refund of the tax withheld is available to a US holder under Australian law or under the Australian Treaty, the amount of tax withheld that is refundable will not be eligible for credit against the holders US federal income tax liability.
A US holder that does not elect to claim a US foreign tax credit may instead claim a deduction for Australian income tax withheld, but only for a taxable year in which the US holder elects to do so with respect to all foreign income taxes paid or accrued in such taxable year.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | 293 11 Shareholder information continued UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax 11.5 Taxation continued UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax SDRT will, subject Shareholdings in BHP Billiton Plc to certain exemptions, be payable on any issue or transfer of UK taxation shares to the Depositary or their nominee where those shares are for inclusion in the ADS program at a rate of 1.5 per cent Dividends of their price if issued, the amount of any consideration Under UK law, no UK tax is required to be withheld at source provided if transferred on sale or their value if transferred from dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs.
With effect from 1 October 2009, this Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs 1.5 per cent charge will not apply to issues of shares into EU depositary receipt systems and into EU clearance systems.
US holders will not be liable for UK tax on capital gains realised However, the 1.5 per cent SDRT charge should continue to apply on disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs unless: to the issue of shares to a clearance service or a depositary g[Xl TeX eXf WXag be beW aTe l eXf WXag a g[X H. be receipt issuer located outside the EU.
No SDRT would be payable g [Xl VTeel ba T geTWX cebYXff ba be ibVTg ba a g[X H g[ebhZ[ on the transfer of an ADS.
No UK stamp duty should be payable a branch or agency for the year in which the disposal occurs on the transfer of an ADS provided that the instrument of and the shares or ADSs have been used, held or acquired for transfer is executed and remains at all times outside the UK.
the purposes of such trade or profession or vocation, branch Transfers of ordinary shares to persons other than the Depositary or agency.
In the case of a trade, the term branch includes or their nominee will give rise to stamp duty or SDRT at the time a permanent establishment.
The relevant rate is currently 0.5 per cent of the An individual who ceases to be resident in the UK for tax amount payable for the shares.
The purchaser normally pays the stamp duty or SDRT.
purposes while owning shares or ADSs and then disposes of those shares or ADSs while not UK resident may become Special rules apply to transactions involving intermediates subject to UK tax on capital gains if he she subsequently and stock lending.
becomes treated as UK resident again before five complete UK tax years of non-UK residence have elapsed from the date US taxation he she left the UK.
In this situation US holders will generally This section describes the material US federal income tax be entitled to claim US tax paid on such a disposition consequences to a US holder of owning ordinary shares or ADSs.
as a credit against any corresponding UK tax payable.
This section does not apply to a holder UK inheritance tax of ordinary shares or ADSs who is a member of a special class Under the current the UKUS Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty of holders subject to special rules, including a dealer in securities, between the UK and the US, ordinary shares or ADSs held a trader in securities who elects to use a mark-to-market method by a US holder who is domiciled for the purposes of the UKUS of accounting for their securities holdings, a tax-exempt Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty in the US, and is not for the organisation, a life insurance company, a person liable for purposes of the UKUS Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty a national alternative minimum tax, a person who actually or constructively of the UK, will generally not be subject to UK inheritance tax owns 10 per cent or more of the voting stock of BHP Billiton Plc, on the individuals death or on a chargeable gift of the ordinary a person who holds ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle shares or ADSs during the individuals lifetime, provided that or a hedging or conversion transaction, or a person whose any applicable US federal gift or estate tax liability is paid, functional currency is not the US dollar.
unless the ordinary shares or ADSs are part of the business property of a permanent establishment of the individual in the If a partnership holds the ordinary shares or ADSs, the US federal UK or, in the case of a shareholder who performs independent income tax treatment of a partner will generally depend on the personal services, pertain to a fixed base situated in the UK.
status of the partner and the tax treatment of the partnership.
Where the ordinary shares or ADSs have been placed in trust A partner in a partnership holding the ordinary shares or ADSs by a settlor who, at the time of settlement, was a US resident should consult its tax adviser with regard to the US federal shareholder, the ordinary shares or ADSs will generally not be income tax treatment of an investment in the ordinary shares subject to UK inheritance tax unless the settlor, at the time of or ADSs.
settlement, was not domiciled in the US and was a UK national.
This section is based in part upon the representations In the exceptional case where the ordinary shares or ADSs are of the Depositary and the assumption that each obligation subject to both UK inheritance tax and US federal gift or estate in the deposit agreement and any related agreement will tax, the UKUS Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty generally be performed in accordance with their terms.
provides for double taxation to be relieved by means of In general, for US federal income tax purposes, a holder credit relief.
of ADSs will be treated as the owner of the ordinary shares represented by those ADSs.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADSs, and ADSs for ordinary shares will generally not be subject to US federal income tax.
294 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs 11.5 Taxation continued Subject to the PFIC rules discussed below, a US holder who sells Dividends or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs will recognise Under US federal income tax laws and subject to the PFIC rules a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal discussed below, a US holder must include in its gross income to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount the gross amount of any dividend paid by BHP Billiton Plc out realised and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined in those ordinary shares or ADSs.
The gain or loss will generally for US federal income tax purposes.
The dividend is taxable be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax to the holder when the holder, in the case of ordinary shares, credit limitation purposes.
The capital gain of a non-corporate or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively US holder is generally taxed at preferential rates where the receives the dividend.
holder has a holding period greater than 12 months in the shares or ADSs sold.
There are limitations on the deductibility Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder on shares or ADSs of capital losses.
in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 will be taxable at the rate applicable to long-term capital gains generally The US dollar value of any foreign currency received upon a sale at a rate of 15 per cent provided that the US holder holds the or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs will be calculated shares or ADSs for more than 60 days during the 121-day period by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date of sale or other beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date, and does not disposal or, in the case of a cash basis or electing accrual basis enter into certain risk reduction transactions with respect to taxpayer, on the settlement date.
A US holder will have a tax the shares or ADSs during the abovementioned holding period.
basis in the foreign currency received equal to that US dollar Absent new legislation extending the current rates, dividends amount, and generally will recognise foreign currency gain paid in taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2011 will or loss on a subsequent conversion or other disposal of the be subject to ordinary income rates.
In addition, a non-corporate foreign currency.
This foreign currency gain or loss generally US holder that elects to treat the dividend income as investment will be treated as US source ordinary income or loss.
income pursuant to Section 163 d 4 of the Code will not be eligible for the reduced rate of taxation.
In the case of a Passive Foreign Investment Company PFIC Rules corporate US holder, dividends on shares and ADSs are taxed We do not believe that the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares or as ordinary income and will not be eligible for the dividends ADSs will be treated as stock of a PFIC for US federal income received deduction generally allowed to US corporations tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
If BHP Billiton Plc were treated as a PFIC, any gain Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings realised on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, ADSs would in general not be treated as a capital gain.
Instead, will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent a US holder would be treated as if it had realised such gain and of the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the certain excess distributions ratably over its holding period for ordinary shares or ADSs and thereafter as a capital gain.
the ordinary shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest The amount of any cash distribution paid in any foreign currency tax rate in effect for each such year to which the gain was will be equal to the US dollar value of such currency, calculated allocated, together with an interest charge in respect of the tax by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date such attributable to each such year.
In addition, dividends received distribution is received by the US holder or, in the case of ADSs, with respect to ordinary shares or ADSs would not be eligible by the Depositary, regardless of whether and when the foreign for the special tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income currency is in fact converted into US dollars.
If the foreign if BHP Billiton Plc were a PFIC either in the taxable year of the currency is converted into US dollars on the date received, distribution or the preceding taxable year, but instead would the US holder generally should not recognise foreign currency be taxable at rates applicable to ordinary income.
Assuming gain or loss on such conversion.
If the foreign currency is not the shares or ADSs are marketable stock, a US holder may converted into US dollars on the date received, the US holder mitigate the adverse tax consequences described above will have a basis in the foreign currency equal to its US dollar by electing to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis value on the date received, and generally will recognise foreign with respect to such shares or ADSs.
currency gain or loss on a subsequent conversion or other disposal of such currency.
Such foreign currency gain or loss generally will be treated as US source ordinary income or loss.
Dividends will be income from sources outside the US, and generally will be passive category income or, for certain taxpayers, general category income, which are treated separately from each other for the purpose of computing the foreign tax credit allowable to a US holder.
In general, your ability to use foreign tax credits may be limited and is dependent on your particular circumstances.
US holders should consult their own tax advisers with respect to these matters.
