Section 8 Legal proceedings BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | 185 186 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 8 Legal proceedings We are involved from time to time in legal proceedings and Rio Algom Pension Plan governmental investigations of a character normally incidental In June 2003, Alexander E Lomas, a retired member of the to our business, including claims and pending actions against Pension Plan for Salaried Employees of Rio Algom Mines Limited us seeking damages or clarification of legal rights and regulatory Plan, filed a Notice of Application in a representative capacity inquiries regarding business practices.
In many cases, insurance in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice Commercial List against or other indemnification protection afforded to us relates to Rio Algom Limited RAL and the Plan Trustee alleging certain such claims and may offset the financial impact on the Group improprieties in their administration of the Pension Plan and of a successful claim.
use of Pension Plan funds from January 1966 onward.
This section summarises the significant legal proceedings and Mr Lomas seeks relief both quantified and unquantified, investigations in which we are currently involved.
for himself and those Plan members he purports to represent, in respect of a number of alleged breaches committed by RAL, Pinal Creek Miami Wash area including allegations of breach of employment contracts, breach BHP Copper Inc BHP Copper was, until March 2010, involved of trust, breach of the Trust Agreement underlying the Pension in litigation concerning groundwater contamination resulting Plan.
In particular: from historic mining operations near the Pinal Creek Miami @e ?b`Tf fXX f HF $$ !% ` ba 6 $%$!
` ba ba TVVbhag Wash area located in the State of Arizona.
BHP Copper and of monies alleged to have been improperly paid out or withheld the other members of the Pinal Creek Group which consists from the Pension Plan, together with compound interest of BHP Copper, Phelps Dodge Miami Inc now known calculated from the date of each alleged wrongdoing: and as Freeport McMoRan Miami Inc FMMI and Inspiration cha g iX TZZeTiTgXW TaW XkX`c Tel WT`TZXf a g[X fh` Consolidated Copper Co filed a contribution action in of US$1.84 million C$1.94 million.
November 1991 in the Federal District Court for the District of Arizona District Court against former owners and operators Mr Lomas purports to represent members of the defined benefits portion of the Pension Plan.
In 2005, the defined contribution of the properties alleged to have caused the contamination.
As part of this action, BHP Copper sought an equitable allocation members of the Pension Plan were included as parties to this action.
of clean-up costs between BHP Copper, the other members of the Pinal Creek Group, and BHP Coppers predecessors.
A motion to strike Mr Lomas request for the winding up of the BHP Coppers predecessors had asserted a counterclaim in Plan was heard on 27 November 2006.
The court struck out part this action seeking indemnity from BHP Copper based upon of Mr Lomas claim, but allowed the remainder.
RALs appeal their interpretation of the historical transaction documents from that decision was dismissed, but further leave to appeal relating to the succession in interest of the parties.
to the Ontario Court of Appeal was granted.
On 10 March 2010, In February 2010, BHP Copper, FMMI and Inspiration Copper the Ontario Court of Appeal ruled in favour of RALs motion to signed a settlement agreement under which FMMI paid strike out that part of the plaintiffs claim that sought a court US$40 million to BHP Copper and assumed all responsibility order to wind-up the Plan.
for future groundwater remediation and any future obligations RAL has notified its insurers of the application and has advised with respect to third party claims related to groundwater other third parties of possible claims against them in respect contamination.
The obligations of FMMI are backed by a parent of matters alleged in the application.
company guarantee and an indemnity in favour of BHP Copper.
Class actions concerning Cerrejn privatisation BHP Copper also settled the proceedings with its predecessors in February 2010 with an agreement that US$21.9 million will The non-government organisation, Corporacin Colombia be held in trust and BHP Copper will be able to draw down on Transparente CCT, brought three separate class actions these funds as it completes specified source control projects Popular Actions numbers 1,029, 1,032 and 1,048 against on the BHP Copper properties over the next five to seven year various defendants in connection with the privatisation of period.
This fund was partially funded by previously recovered 50 per cent of the Cerrejn Zona Norte mining complex in insurance proceeds in the approximate amount of US$11 million Colombia in 2002.
Actions 1,029 and 1,048 were dismissed to which BHP Copper and its predecessors claimed joint rights.
and the only one of these three actions still on foot is popular These proceeds were previously held in a joint trust account for action 1,032, against Cerrejn Zona Norte SA CZN, which the benefit of these entities.
The complex is currently owned by CZN and Carbones del Cerrejn Limited CDC.
Our subsidiary The District Court approved the settlement of the proceedings Billiton Investment 3 BV owns a 33 per cent share in CDC, and in March 2010.
A State consent decree the Decree which was our subsidiaries Billiton Investment 3 BV and Billiton Investment approved by the Federal District Court for the District of Arizona 8 BV BHP Billiton Shareholders collectively own a 33.33 per cent in August 1998 remains in place.
The Decree authorises and share in CZN.
requires groundwater remediation and facility-specific source control activities.
BHP Copper continues to retain its obligations CCT alleges, in part, that the defendants failed to comply with under the Decree although FMMI has, through the settlement, the privatisation process, and that the offer price for shares agreed to be responsible as indicated above.
As a result of in CZN between Stages 1 and 2 of the privatisation process the settlement BHP Copper has reversed the US$130 million was not correctly adjusted for inflation.
provision for the future planned remediation work.
Our share of the alleged adjustment of the CZN share price BHP Copper has also settled the suits against a number of would be approximately US$4 million.
In the alternative, insurance carriers seeking to recover under various insurance CCT seeks declaration that the privatisation is null and void policies for remediation, response, source control and other and forfeiture of the transfer price paid, of which our share costs noted above incurred by BHP Copper.
would be approximately US$148 million.
In both instances, CCT also seeks unquantified sanctions, including payment In view of settlements referred to above, this matter is no of stamp taxes, an award of 15 per cent of all monies recovered longer considered material to the Group and we do not intend by the defendants, together with interest on all amounts at the to include it in future reports.
maximum rate authorised by law.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | 187 8 Legal proceedings continued In addition, a separate class action Popular Action no.
242 Australian Taxation Office assessments has been brought by an individual, Mr Martn Nicols Barros The Australian Taxation Office ATO has issued amended Choles, against various defendants, including CDC, arising assessments during the period from 2005 to 2008 denying out of the privatisation of the Cerrejn Zona Norte mining bad debt deductions arising from the investments in Hartley, complex in Colombia.
Beenup and Boodarie Iron and the denial of capital allowance claims made on the Boodarie Iron project.
BHP Billiton lodged Mr Choles claims that the transferral of rights by CDC to CZN objections against all the amended assessments.
An amount was ineffective because it only involved a transfer of shares of US$686 million was paid to the ATO pursuant to ATO disputed and not the transfer of the underlying rights in the properties assessment guidelines, which require that taxpayers generally and assets used in the Cerrejn North Zone operation.
must pay half of the tax in dispute to defer recovery proceedings.
Consequently, he is seeking orders that CDC pays for the use and lease of the properties and assets until November 2009, The Boodarie Iron and Beenup bad debt disallowance matters and that from that date the properties and assets of the and the Boodarie Iron capital allowance matter were heard Cerrejn project revert to the State.
concurrently in the Federal Court in January 2009.
BHP Billiton was successful on all counts.
The ATO appealed and the Mt Newman and Goldsworthy railway lines matter was heard in the Full Federal Court in November 2009.
In June 2004, Fortescue Metals Group Limited FMG applied BHP Billiton was again successful on all counts.
The ATO sought to the National Competition Council NCC to have use of parts special leave to appeal to the High Court only in relation to of the Mt Newman and Goldsworthy railway lines declared as the Beenup bad debt disallowance and the denial of the capital a service under Part IIIA of the Trade Practices Act 1974. allowance claims on the Boodarie Iron project.
The High Court Declaration under Part IIIA confers a statutory right to negotiate has granted special leave only in relation to the denial of the the terms of use of the service, on terms that are determined capital allowance claims on the Boodarie Iron project.
A date by arbitration if agreement cannot be reached by negotiation.
for the appeal has not yet been set.
As a result of the ATO The NCC found that the two railway lines each provide separate not seeking to challenge the Boodarie Iron bad debt disallowance, services, and that while the Mt Newman line could be declared, the ATO refunded US$552 million to BHP Billiton including the Goldsworthy line could not because it is part of a production interest.
BHP Billiton also expects that as a result of the High Court process.
The NCC then proceeded to consider the Mt Newman not granting special leave for the Beenup bad debt disallowance, railway line aspect of the application.
the ATO will refund the amount paid in relation to this dispute of US$62 million plus interest.
BHP Billiton settled the Hartley In December 2004, BHP Billiton Iron Ore Pty Ltd BHPBIO lodged matter with the ATO in September 2009. an application with the Federal Court, challenging the NCCs decision in relation to the application of the production process The amount remaining in dispute following the decision of the definition to the Mt Newman railway.
FMG similarly instituted High Court for the denial of capital allowance claims on the proceedings in the Federal Court appealing NCCs decision in Boodarie Iron project is approximately US$435 million, being relation to the Goldsworthy railway.
The Federal Court held in primary tax of US$328 million and US$107 million of interest favour of FMG, and BHPBIO appealed this decision to the Full after tax.
Court of the Federal Court.
The majority of the Full Court decided in favour of FMG and successive appeals by BHPBIO to the Full Petroleum Resource Rent Tax litigation Court of the Federal Court and the High Court were unsuccessful.
BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Strait Pty Ltd is involved in litigation in the Federal Court of Australia, disputing whether In the interim, the NCC proceeded to recommend to the Federal certain receipts related to capacity are subject to Petroleum Treasurer that the Mt Newman railway line be declared.
In May Resource Rent Tax, as well as the ATOs assessment of the 2006, having not published a decision, the Federal Treasurer was taxing point for Petroleum Resource Rent Tax purposes in deemed to have decided not to declare the Mt Newman railway.
relation to sales of gas and LPG produced from the Gippsland FMG sought a reconsideration of this decision by the Australian Joint Venture.
The trial has commenced earlier this year and Competition Tribunal.
In November 2007, FMG lodged a further the relevant matters remain before the Court.
Part IIIA application with the NCC for declaration of the whole of the Goldsworthy railway line.
On 27 October 2008, the Petroleum Resource Rent Tax has been paid and expensed Federal Treasurer announced that he had declared access based on the ATOs assessment, and any success will result to the Goldsworthy line.
An application by BHPBIO for in an income tax benefit.
reconsideration of this decision was lodged with the Given the complexity of the matters under dispute, Australian Competition Tribunal.
it is not possible at this time to accurately quantify On 30 June 2010, following a lengthy hearing, the Australian the anticipated benefit.
Competition Tribunal released its determination.
The Tribunal affirmed the decision not to declare the Mt Newman line.
North West Shelf Excise on Condensate litigation The Tribunal also affirmed the Treasurers decision to declare BHP Billiton Petroleum North West Shelf Pty NWS has the Goldsworthy line service for a period of 20 years commencing commenced litigation in the Federal Court of Australia and on 19 November 2008.
Neither of the determinations in relation the Administrative Appeals Tribunal seeking orders that to Mt Newman or Goldsworthy has been appealed.
recently enacted excise by-laws prescribing a condensate production area for the purposes of the Excise Tariff Act Following the Tribunals decision, access seekers may now negotiate with BHPBIO to determine terms of access to the incorrectly define the relevant fields.
As at 30 June 2010, we have paid and expensed US$150 million.
Goldsworthy railway, and either the access seeker or BHPBIO could refer disputed matters to the ACCC for arbitration under the statutory framework established under Part IIIA of the Trade Practices Act.
The outcome of this process would govern whether access would be provided and on what terms.
