2 Information on the Company continued Information on Metallurgical Coal mining operations continued Name, location, mineralisation Ownership, operation style, type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source We own 80% of BHP Mitsui South Walker Creek became South Walker Creek coal is BHP Mitsui Coal Pty Limited Coal Pty Limited BMC.
Mitsui operational in 1996, producing beneficiated at on-site processing Bowen Basin, and Co owns the other 20%.
PCI product and minor quantities facilities with a capacity to Queensland, Australia BMA managed the mines of thermal coal.
Produces a range of coking coal, during FY2010, however from Poitrel mine commenced Poitrel Mine has a joint venture pulverised coal injection PCI 1 July 2010, management operations in 2006, producing agreement Red Mountain Joint coal, and thermal coal products was transferred to BMC.
Venture with the adjacent with medium to high phosphorus Mining leases, including those Millennium Coal mine to share and ash properties.
Production is associated with undeveloped coal processing and rail loading sourced from the Permian Rangal tenements, have expiry dates facilities.
Poitrel has access Coal Measures are the main between 2010 and 2020 and to 3 mtpa capacity from the economic stratum and are are renewable for such further processing facilities.
comprised of layered periods as the Queensland sedimentary formations.
Power is sourced from the State Government legislation allows.
South Walker Creek and Renewal applications for mining Poitrel are open-cut mines.
leases expiring in CY2010 have The mines are accessible by public been lodged.
All coal is transported on government-owned railways to the port of Hay Point near Mackay incorporating CQCAs Hay Point Coal Terminal and the Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal.
Illawarra Coal We are owner and operator Appin commenced in 1962 with Coal is beneficiated at two of the Illawarra Coal mines.
longwall mining starting in 1969. processing facilities with a Illawarra, New South Wales, capacity to produce approximately Australia Mining leases have expiry dates West Cliff was commissioned 8 mtpa of coal.
Produces premium quality hard are renewable for such further Power is sourced from the State of coking coal and some thermal Dendrobium Mine opened periods as the NSW Government New South Wales electricity grid.
coal from the Wongawilli and in 2005. legislation allows.
Renewal Bulli seams contained in layered applications for mining sedimentary formations within the leases expiring in 2010 have Permian Illawarra Coal Measures.
Dendrobium, Appin and West Cliff are all underground mines.
All the mines are accessible by public road.
All coal is transported by road or rail to our major customer, BlueScope Steels Port Kembla steelworks, or to Port Kembla for export.
Both developments would include coal handling preparation plants.
We are assessing the optimal time to IndoMet Coal Project Indonesia advance these projects and we are continuing to progress Indomet Coal includes the Maruwai and Juloi metallurgical owner and government approvals.
coal concessions in Kalimantan, Indonesia and was discovered To support this growth, BMA is progressing owner and by BHP Billiton Exploration in the 1990s.
Following a strategic government approvals to increase the capacity of the Hay Point assessment of the importance of local participation in the Coal Terminal from 44 million tonnes per annum to 55 million development of the project in 2010, a 25 per cent interest in tonnes per annum in a first phase expansion HPX3.
We have the project was sold to a subsidiary of PT Adaro Energy TBK.
committed pre-approval expenditure for further project studies We retain 75 per cent of the project.
and items requiring long lead times.
A potential further Study work is underway to identify development options across stage HPX4 would increase capacity from 55 million tonnes our mining areas of interest Coal Contracts of Work.
per annum to approximately 75 million tonnes per annum.
We were also awarded preferred developer status for the Bowen Basin Expansions construction of a new coal terminal at the X80 site at Abbot BMA is currently investigating a number of brownfield and Point, with a capacity of at least 30 million tonnes per annum.
greenfield expansion options in the Bowen Basin, including: 2.2.
10 Energy Coal Customer Sector Group 7Tha T 6bT @ aX ZeXXaY X W ceb]XVg.
6TiT E WZX @ aX ZeXXaY X W ceb]XVg.
Our Energy Coal CSG is one of the worlds largest producers :bbalX T E iXef WX @ aX 8kcTaf ba UebjaY X W ceb]XVg.
and marketers of export energy coal also known as thermal or steaming coal and is also a significant domestic supplier :Tl Cb ag 6bT GXe` aT 8kcTaf ba UebjaY X W ceb]XVg !
to the electricity generation industry in Australia, South Africa Daunia, located to the east of the Poitrel mine, has been and the United States.
Our global portfolio of energy coal designed with capacity to produce up to 4 million tonnes assets, our insights into the broader energy market through per annum, and the production capacity of Caval Ridge, our sales of other fuels such as gas, uranium and oil, and our located to the north of the Peak Downs mine, would be up control of options for bulk freight provide our business with to 5.5 million tonnes per annum 100 per cent, or 2.75 million key advantages as a supplier.
Like our other businesses, our tonnes per annum BHP Billiton share in addition to potential Energy Coal CSG owns large, long-life assets with substantial expansion of Peak Downs mine of 2.5 million tonnes per annum options for expansion.
100 per cent, or 1.25 million tonnes per annum BHP Billiton 46 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 2.2.
10 Energy Coal Customer Sector Group continued New Mexico Coal We generally make our domestic sales under long-term We own and operate the Navajo mine, located on Navajo land in New Mexico, and the nearby San Juan mine.
Each of these fixed-price contracts with power stations that are located in close proximity to the mine.
We make export sales to power mines transports its production directly to a nearby power station.
The reserve lives of Navajo and San Juan at current generators and some industrial users in Asia, Europe and the United States, usually under contracts for delivery of a fixed production rates are 21 and 10 years, respectively.
New Mexico Coal produced approximately 13.5 million tonnes in FY2010.
Pricing is either index-linked, or fixed, in which case we use financial instruments to swap our fixed-price NSW Energy Coal exposure for exposure to market indexed prices.
Our NSW Energy Coal operating asset is the Mt Arthur open-cut We recognise that the need to control carbon dioxide emissions coal mine located in the Hunter Valley region of New South has substantial implications for the use of thermal coal as an Wales, which produced approximately 12 million tonnes in energy source.
We have committed to invest US$300 million over FY2010 and has a reserve life at current production rates of five years from June 2007 to support the research, development 55 years.
We have a project in execution and a number of studies and demonstration of low-emissions technologies, including underway to evaluate expansion opportunities for this operation clean coal and carbon sequestration technologies.
In FY2010, we delivered We operate three sets of assets: a group of mines and associated approximately 18 per cent of Mt Arthurs production to a local infrastructure collectively known as BHP Billiton Energy Coal power station and exported the rest via the port of Newcastle.
South Africa BECSA : our New Mexico Coal operations in the United States: and our NSW Energy Coal operations in Australia.
Cerrejn Coal Company We also own a one-third share of the Cerrejn Coal Company, Cerrejn Coal Company owns and operates one of the largest which operates a coal mine in Colombia.
open-cut export coal mines in the world in La Guajira province of Colombia, together with integrated rail and port facilities BHP Billiton Energy Coal South Africa through which the majority of production is exported.
In FY2008, BECSA operates three coal mines in the Witbank region of Cerrejn completed an expansion that increased capacity to Mpumalanga province of South Africa, which produced a 32 million tonnes per annum 100 per cent terms.
At Cerrejns total of approximately 30.5 million tonnes in FY2010.
We have current rate of production, Cerrejn has a reserve life of 21 years.
a major mine expansion project underway in South Africa see Development projects below.
In FY2010, BECSA sold approximately 64 per cent of its production to Eskom, the government-owned electricity utility in South Africa, and exported the rest via the Richards Bay Coal Terminal, in which we own a 24 per cent share.
The reserve lives of the BECSA mines at current production rates range from 11 to 24 years.
Information on Energy Coal mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
The tables should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
2 and reserves tables see section 2.14.2.
Name, location, mineralisation Ownership, operation style, type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source SOUTH AFRICA Khutala We own and operate the mine Khutala was commissioned Beneficiation facilities consist of at Khutala.
in 1984. a crushing plant, for the energy 100 km east of Johannesburg, coal with a nominal capacity Gauteng Province, South Africa BECSA is the holder of an Open-cut operations began of 18 mtpa.
A separate smaller Old Order Right.
Produces a medium rank crusher and wash plant with bituminous thermal coal An application for conversion The mining of a thermal a nominal capacity of 0.6 mtpa non-coking.
to a New Order Right, submitted metallurgical coal deposit for is used to beneficiate the in 2004, is still being processed a domestic market commenced Combination of open-cut and metallurgical coal supplied see section 2.7.
The mines from the open-cut operation.
are accessible by public roads.
Power is supplied by Eskom Domestic coal is transported via under long-term contracts.
overland conveyor to the Kendal Power Station.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | 47 2 Information on the Company continued Information on Energy Coal mining operations continued Name, location, mineralisation Ownership, operation style, type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source SOUTH AFRICA continued Douglas Middelburg We own and operate the mine Douglas Middelburg mine Beneficiation facilities consist 100% after entering into an was commissioned in 1982. of the following: tips and 20 km southeast of Witbank, agreement with Xstrata Plc Middelburg Mine Services MMS crushing plants, two export Mpumalanga Province, through Tavistock Collieries Plc and Duvha Opencast became wash plants, a middlings wash South Africa to dissolve the joint venture one operation in 1996. plant and a fide-stone plant.
The dissolution The overall capacity is 30 mtpa.
bituminous thermal coal, most transaction was completed Replacement of these facilities of which can be beneficiated on 1 December 2009. is part of the DMO project for the European or Asian currently in execution.
see BECSA and Tavistock are the joint export market.
holders of three Old Order Rights Open-cut mine in the previous joint venture ratio Power is supplied by Eskom The mine is accessible 84:16 and BECSA is the 100% under long-term contracts.
holder of a fourth Old Order Right.
Export coal is transported to RBCT All four Old Order Rights were by rail, while the domestic coal is lodged with the Department of transported via conveyor belt to Mineral Resources for conversion the nearby Duvha Power Station.
BECSA and Tavistock previously amended their joint venture agreement such that, upon conversion of the four Old Order Rights, the mining area will be divided into an area wholly owned and operated by Tavistock and an area wholly owned and operated by BECSA as the new Douglas Middelburg mine see section 2.7.
Klipspruit We own and operate the The project was approved by Beneficiation facilities consist mine at Klipspruit.
the Mpumalanga Department of a tip and crushing plant, as 30 km west of Witbank, of Agriculture, Conservation and well as an export wash plant.
Mpumalanga Province, BECSA is the holder of an Environment in 2003.
An initial We own 50% of the Phola Coal South Africa Old Order Right.
An application mini-pit was started in August Plant in a joint venture with Anglo for conversion to a New Order Produces a medium rank 2003 as a truck and shovel Inyosi Coal.
The overall capacity of Right was submitted in 2004 bituminous thermal coal, most contractor operation.
and is still being processed of which can be beneficiated see section 2.7.
The Klipspruit Expansion Power is supplied by Eskom under for the European or Asian Project was completed in long-term contracts.
The project included Open-cut mine a 50% share in the Phola Coal Access to the mine Plant and is expected to increase is via public roads.
ROM capacity of the mine Export coal is transported to approximately 8.0 mtpa to RBCT by rail.
AUSTRALIA Mt Arthur Coal We own and operate the mine Coal production from the Mt Main beneficiation facilities at Mt Arthur.
Arthur area commenced in 2002. include coal handling, preparation Approximately 125 km and washing plants capable of from Newcastle, New South We hold various mining leases producing in excess of 14 mtpa Wales, Australia and licences that expire between product currently being upgraded 2010 and 2028.
Applications have Produces a medium rank as part of the expansion project been submitted to renew leases bituminous thermal coal see Development projects below.
Washery by-pass coal is also sold.
Open-cut mine We are a 35.5% shareholder The mine is accessible in a joint venture company that by public road.
is operating a 30 mtpa export Domestic coal is transported coal loading facility in the port by an overland conveyor of Newcastle.
The first ship to Bayswater Power Station.
load of coal was dispatched Export coal is transported by in June 2010, and the port a combination of private and is expected to progressively public rail, approximately ramp-up to nameplate capacity.
125 km to the port of Newcastle.
Power is supplied by local energy providers, from the eastern Australia power grid.
48 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Information on Energy Coal mining operations continued Name, location, mineralisation Ownership, operation style, type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source AMERICA BHP Navajo Coal Company We own and operate the mine.
The mine has been in operation The mine has the capacity to since 1963, and coal sales are produce and process 7.8 mtpa.
30 km southwest of Farmington, The mine is subject to a long-term contracted to 2016.
Mined coal is sized and blended New Mexico, US lease from the Navajo Nation.
to contract specifications using The lease continues for as long Produces a medium rank stackers and reclaimers with as coal can be economically bituminous thermal coal no further beneficiation.
produced and sold in non-coking suitable for paying quantities.
Power is supplied from FCPP.
Open-cut mine Navajo mine is accessible by public roads located on the Navajo Nation Indian Reservation.
We transport all coal 21 km from the production areas via our dedicated railroad to the Four Corners Power Plant FCPP.
San Juan Coal Company We own and operate the mine.
The San Juan mine began The mine has the capacity operating in 1973 as a surface to produce 6.1 mtpa of coal.
25 km west of Farmington, We hold mining leases from mine.
In October 2000, Mined coal is sized and blended New Mexico, US federal and state governments.
development of the San Juan to contract specifications using The leases are viable as long Produces a medium rank underground mine was approved stockpiles with no further as minimum production criteria bituminous thermal coal to replace production from the beneficiation.
non-coking suitable for existing open-cut mine.
Coal sales Power is supplied from SJGS.
The San Juan underground mine is accessible by public roads.
Transport of coal to the San Juan Generating Station SJGS is by truck and conveyor belt.
COLOMBIA Cerrejn Coal Company We own 33.33% of the The original mine began as a joint Beneficiation facilities include Cerrejn Coal Company in a venture between Exxons Intercor a crushing plant with a capacity Maicao, La Guajira state, joint venture.
The remaining and the Colombian Government of 32 mtpa and a washing plant Colombia 66.67% interest is owned by entity Carbocol in 1976.
Over with a capacity of 2 mtpa.
Produces a medium rank Anglo American Plc 33.33% time, the partners have changed, Electricity is supplied through the bituminous thermal coal and Xstrata Plc 33.33%.
nearby operations have been local Colombian power system.
non-coking, suitable for merged and progressive Mining leases expire in 2034. the export market.
expansion resulted in the current Open-cut mine 32 mtpa operation.
The export facility is 150 km northeast of the mine on the Caribbean coast at Puerto Bolivar and is connected to the mine by a single-track railway.
Access to the mine is via public roads and by charter aircraft to the mines airstrip.
Development projects Mt Arthur open-cut expansions On 24 July 2009, we announced the Mt Arthur Coal MAC mine Douglas-Middelburg Optimisation Project expansion, which is designed to increase production of saleable This project involves works to optimise the development of thermal coal by an increment of approximately 3.5 million tonnes existing reserves across the Douglas and Middelburg collieries, per annum.
Known as the MAC 20 Project, it is expected to the development of additional mining areas and the construction commence operation in the first half of CY2011 at an estimated of a new 14 million tonnes per annum coal processing plant, capital investment of US$260 million.
which will replace the less efficient existing plant at Douglas.
The work will enable us to maintain energy coal exports from We have submitted a development consent application the combined Douglas and Middelburg colliery at around current to expand the production capacity of the mine to 32 million levels approximately 10 million tonnes per annum while also tonnes per annum open-cut and 4 million tonnes per annum fulfilling our domestic contractual commitments.
Studies are underway to examine the expansion investment is expected to be within budget and the new plant of the mine to utilise this capacity.
is currently being completed with the first train load of coal railed on 30 July 2010.
