2 Information on the Company continued 2.13.6 Rights attaching to shares continued 2.13.9 Capital calls FhU]XVg gb g[X e Z[gf TggTV[ aZ gb g[X Vh`h Tg iX ceXYXeXaVX Subject to the terms on which any shares may have been issued, shares and the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share, but the Board may make calls on the shareholders in respect of all in priority to any payment of dividends on all other classes monies unpaid on their shares.
BHP Billiton has a lien on every of shares, the holder of the Equalisation Share shall be partly paid share for all amounts payable in respect of that share.
entitled to be paid such dividends as the Board may decide Each shareholder is liable to pay the amount of each call in the to pay thereupon.
manner, at the time and at the place specified by the Board subject to receiving at least 14 days notice specifying the time 4 al fhec hf eX`T a aZ TYgXe cTl`Xag bY g[X W fge Uhg baf TUbiX and place for payment.
A call is considered to have been made shall be payable to the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary at the time when the resolution of the Board authorising the shares in equal amounts per BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share.
2.13.7 Right on a return of assets on liquidation 2.13.10 Borrowing powers On a return of assets on liquidation of BHP Billiton Limited, Subject to relevant law, the Directors may exercise all powers subject to the payment of all prior ranking amounts owed to of BHP Billiton to borrow money, and to mortgage or charge all creditors of BHP Billiton Limited and preference shareholders, its undertaking, property, assets both present and future the assets of BHP Billiton Limited remaining available for and all uncalled capital or any part or parts thereof and distribution among shareholders, after giving effect to the to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright payment of all prior ranking amounts owed to all creditors and or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation holders of preference shares, shall be applied in paying to the of BHP Billiton or of any third party.
holders of the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share and the Equalisation Share if any an amount of up to A$2.00 2.13.11 Changes to rights of shareholders on each such share, on an equal priority with any amount paid to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares, and any Rights attached to any class of shares issued by either surplus remaining shall be applied in making payments solely BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc can only be varied to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares in whether as a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action accordance with their entitlements.
where such variation is approved both: Ul g[X 6b`cTal g[Tg ffhXW g[X eX XiTag f[TeXf On a return of assets on liquidation of BHP Billiton Plc, as a special resolution: subject to the payment of all prior ranking amounts owed Ul g[X [b WXef bY g[X ffhXW f[TeXf bY g[X TYYXVgXW V Tff to the creditors of BHP Billiton Plc and prior ranking statutory either by a special resolution passed at a separate meeting entitlements, the assets of BHP Billiton Plc to be distributed of the holders of the issued shares of the class affected, on a winding-up shall be distributed to the holders of shares or with the written consent of members with at least in the following order of priority: 75 per cent of the votes of that class.
Gb g[X [b WXef bY g[X Vh`h Tg iX ceXYXeXaVX f[TeXf g[X repayment of a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up 2.13.12 Conditions governing general meetings or credited as paid up on the cumulative preference shares held by them and accrual, if any, of the Preferential Dividend, All provisions relating to general meetings apply with any necessary modifications to any special meeting of any class whether such dividend has been earned or declared or not, calculated up to the date of commencement of the winding-up.
of shareholders that may be held.
Therefore, the following information relates equally to general meetings and any Gb g[X [b WXef bY g[X 5:C 5 gba C V beW aTel f[TeXf TaW gb g[X special meeting of any class of shareholders.
holders of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share and the Equalisation Share if any, the payment out of surplus, if any, The Board may and shall on requisition in accordance with remaining after the distribution above of an equal amount for applicable laws call a general meeting of the shareholders each BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share, the BHP Billiton Plc Special at the time and place or places and in the manner determined Voting Share and the Equalisation Share, if issued, subject to by the Board.
No shareholder may convene a general meeting a maximum in the case of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting of BHP Billiton except where entitled under law to do so.
Share and the Equalisation Share of the nominal capital paid Any Director may convene a general meeting whenever the up on such shares.
General meetings can also be cancelled, postponed or adjourned.
Notice of a general meeting must be 2.13.8 Redemption of preference shares given to each shareholder entitled to vote at the meeting and If BHP Billiton Limited at any time proposes to create and issue such notice of meeting must be given in the form and manner any preference shares, the preference shares may be issued in which the Board thinks fit.
Five shareholders of the relevant on the terms that they are to be redeemed or, at the option of company present in person or by proxy constitute a quorum either or both BHP Billiton Limited and the holder, are liable to for a meeting.
A shareholder who is entitled to attend and be redeemed, whether out of share capital, profits or otherwise.
cast a vote at a general meeting of BHP Billiton Limited may appoint a person as a proxy to attend and vote for the The preference shares confer on the holders the right to shareholder in accordance with the law.
convert the preference shares into ordinary shares if, and on the basis, the Board determines at the time of issue of 2.13.13 Limitations on rights to own securities the preference shares.
Neither the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited nor the Articles The preference shares are to confer on the holders: of Association of BHP Billiton Plc impose any limitations on the g [X e Z[g ba eXWX`cg ba TaW ba T j aW aZ hc gb cTl`Xag rights to own securities other than restrictions that reflect in cash in priority to any other class of shares of i the the takeovers codes under relevant Australian and UK law.
amount paid or agreed to be considered as paid on each In addition, the Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers of the preference shares: ii the amount, if any, equal to Act 1975 imposes a number of conditions that restrict foreign the aggregate of any dividends accrued but unpaid and ownership of Australian-based companies.
of any arrears of dividends: Share control limits imposed by the Constitution and the g[X e Z[g a ce be gl gb Tal cTl`Xag bY W i WXaW ba Tal bg[Xe Articles of Association, as well as relevant laws, are described class of shares, to the preferential dividend.
in section 2.7 and 2.11.2 of this Report.
There is no equivalent provision in the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc.
