In this Summary Review People and Safety Karen Wood describes our commitment to our people Our results at a glance and safety, including our approach to leadership A snapshot of our results and five-year financial summary See page 24 See page 2 Environment and Communities Chairmans Review The way we manage our responsibilities to the Our strategy delivers environment and communities in which we operate An overview of the year by Jacques Nasser AO is explained by J Michael Yeager See page 4 See page 26 Chief Executive Officers Report Board of Directors An unchanged strategy The profiles of BHP Billitons Directors The year in review, by Marius Kloppers See page 28 See page 6 Group Management Committee Customer Sector Groups Profiles of the senior management team at BHP Billiton An update from each of our Customer Sector Groups, See page 31 providing a snapshot of BHP Billitons operational performance See page 13 Corporate Governance Summary A summary of BHP Billiton governance Finance and Marketing overview See page 32 An outline of our financial position from Alex Vanselow and an update on our marketing operations by Alberto Calderon Remuneration Summary See page 20 Key policy principles and information about our remuneration Performance update of our operations See page 34 Details of key achievements in Ferrous and Coal by Marcus Randolph and highlights of the year Shareholder information in Non-Ferrous by Andrew Mackenzie Key dates and information relevant for shareholders, See page 22 including our dividend policy and payments See page 36 Corporate Directory A list of major BHP Billiton offices and share registries See Inside Back Cover This Summary Review is designed to provide you with an update on This Summary Review is not a substitute for the Annual Report 2010 the operations and performance of BHP Billiton over the year ended and does not contain all the information needed to give as full an 30 June 2010 in a concise and easy-to-read format.
It is not a summary understanding of the Groups performance, financial position and financial statement for the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006. future prospects as is provided by the Annual Report 2010, which can be downloaded from the BHP Billiton website at www.
This Summary Review is not intended to provide a guide as to the Printed copies of the Annual Report 2010 will be distributed to all likely future performance of the Group.
Certain statements may be shareholders who elected to receive them, and can be requested forward-looking statements which are based on current expectations, by contacting the Share Registry.
beliefs and assumptions regarding present and future business strategies and environments in which the Group will operate in the future.
Such expectations, beliefs and assumptions may or may not prove to be correct and are subject to a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance BHP Billiton Limited.
and achievements to differ materially.
The Annual Report 2010 sets Registered office: 180 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Victoria 3000, out certain risk factors that may cause our results to be materially less Australia.
favourable than those implied by these forward-looking statements.
Past performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
Registered in England and Wales.
Registered office: Neathouse Place, London SW1V 1BH, UK.
Nothing in this Summary Review should be construed as either an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy or sell BHP Billiton securities Each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are members of the in any jurisdiction.
BHP Billiton Group, which is headquartered in Australia.
W e are BHP Billiton, a leading global natural resources company.
Our corporate objective is to create long-term value for shareholders through the discovery, development and conversion of natural resources, and the provision of innovative customer and market-focused solutions.
Our unique position in the resources industry is due to our proven strategy.
Middelburg Mine The Middelburg Complex is the largest producer in BHP Billiton Energy Coal South Africa.
