3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued Operating cash flow for the year remained strong at 3.4.
9 Insurance continued US$17,920 million and resulted in net debt declining further The Group continues to be largely self-insured for losses arising to US$3,308 million, with net gearing falling to six per cent.
from property damage and business interruption, sabotage These results continue to demonstrate the strength of our and terrorism, marine cargo and construction.
For these risks uniquely diversified business model and world-class, low-cost we internally insure our operations for wholly owned assets asset portfolio.
and for our share of joint venture assets via our captive insurance companies.
Any losses incurred will consequently We invested heavily in our business and successfully delivered another five growth projects including those in petroleum and impact the financial statements as they arise.
iron ore. We approved two major growth projects with a combined budget of US$695 million and made pre-commitments 3.5 Application of critical accounting policies totalling US$2,237 million our share to accelerate early works for another four.
To underline the depth of our project pipeline, The preparation of our consolidated financial statements we have 20 projects in various stages of execution and definition requires management to make estimates and judgements with an estimated budget in excess of US$25 billion.
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial In the Pilbara Australia, we continued to progress the statements and the reported revenue and costs during the proposed iron ore production joint venture with Rio Tinto, with periods presented therein.
On an ongoing basis, management a key focus on gaining regulatory approval.
We also bolstered evaluates its estimates and judgements in relation to assets, our upstream resource base with the acquisition of Athabasca liabilities, contingent liabilities, revenue and costs.
Management Potash Inc. Canada and United Minerals Corporation NL bases its estimates and judgements on historical experience and Australia, Iron Ore. On 20 August 2010, we launched an on various other factors it believes to be reasonable under the all-cash offer to acquire all of the issued and outstanding circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making common shares of Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc. judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities PotashCorp at a price of US$130 in cash per PotashCorp that are not readily apparent from other sources.
may differ from these estimates under different assumptions Our profit attributable to members of BHP Billiton of and conditions.
US$12.7 billion represents an increase of 116.5 per cent We have identified the following critical accounting policies from the corresponding period.
Attributable profit excluding under which significant judgements, estimates and assumptions exceptional items of US$12.5 billion represents an increase are made and where actual results may differ from these of 16.3 per cent from the corresponding period.
estimates under different assumptions and conditions and Revenue was US$52.8 billion, an increase of 5.2 per cent from may materially affect financial results or the financial position US$50.2 billion in the corresponding period.
reported in future periods: eXfXeiX Xfg `TgXf.
On 25 August 2010, the Board declared a final dividend of 45 US cents per share, thus bringing the total dividends declared Xkc beTg ba TaW XiT hTg ba XkcXaW gheX.
for FY2010 to 87 US cents per share, an increase of 6.1 per cent WXiX bc`Xag XkcXaW gheX.
Capital management initiatives c ebcXegl c Tag TaW Xdh c`Xag eXVbiXeTU X T`bhag.
W XY aXW UXaXY g cXaf ba fV[X`Xf.
cebi f ba Ybe V bfheX TaW eX[TU gTg ba.
Year ended 30 June 2009 compared with year ended 30 June 2008 gTkTg ba!
Our profit attributable to members of BHP Billiton of US$5.9 billion In accordance with IFRS, we are required to include information represented a decrease of 61.8 per cent from FY2008.
Attributable regarding the nature of the estimates and judgements and profit excluding exceptional items of US$10.7 billion represented potential impacts on our financial results or financial position a decrease of 30.2 per cent from FY2008.
This information can be found in note 1 Accounting policies in the financial statements.
Revenue was US$50.2 billion, a decrease of 15.6 per cent from US$59.5 billion in FY2008.
3.6 Operating results On 12 August 2009, the Board declared a final dividend of 41 US cents per share, thus bringing the total dividends declared 3.6.
1 Consolidated results for FY2009 to 82 US cents per share.
Capital management Year ended 30 June 2010 compared with year ended initiatives are discussed in section 3.7.
30 June 2009 Underlying EBIT We delivered another strong set of results in FY2010 despite In discussing the operating results of our business, we focus on significant volatility in the macroeconomic environment with a financial measure we refer to as Underlying EBIT.
Underlying growth in Underlying EBIT of eight per cent.
Record sales EBIT is the key measure that management uses internally to volumes were achieved in three of our major commodities as assess the performance of our business, make decisions on our focus on efficiency and productivity at all points in the cycle the allocation of resources and assess operational management.
ensured we were well positioned to capitalise on the recovery Management uses this measure because financing structures and in demand and prices.
Local currency costs were well controlled tax regimes differ across our assets, and substantial components across the Group: however, the weaker US dollar had a negative of our tax and interest charges are levied at a Group, rather than exchange rate impact of US$2,150 million.
Underlying EBIT is calculated as earnings The combination of these factors underpinned strong margins before interest and taxation EBIT, which is referred to as profit and returns.
For the sixth consecutive year, we recorded an from operations in the income statement, excluding the effects Underlying EBIT margin of around 40 per cent, while Underlying of exceptional items.
return on capital was 26 per cent.
Excluding capital investment We exclude exceptional items from Underlying EBIT in order associated with projects not yet in production, Underlying return to enhance the comparability of the measure from period on capital was 30 per cent.
to period and provide clarity into the underlying performance of our operations.
Our management monitors exceptional items separately.
