2 Information on the Company continued Development projects payment of royalties on iron ore shipments at the rates specified in the WA Mining Regulations with effect from 1 July 2010.
Western Australia Iron Ore Royalty rates will increase from 3.75 per cent of sales revenue Construction of Rapid Growth Project RGP 5 is ongoing.
Project to 5.625 per cent for fine ore and from 3.25 per cent to expenditure of US$4.8 billion was approved in November 2008 five per cent for beneficiated ore.
The lump ore royalty will for RGP 5, our share of spend to date amounts to US$3.1 billion.
be 7.5 per cent, which is already the prevailing rate in most The focus of this expansion project is to substantially double cases.
The rates as amended will apply to all existing operations track the Newman mainline rail, construction of two new and future projects covered by the State Agreements.
shipping berths on the Finucane Island side of the Port Hedland Additionally, the HoA permits sharing of infrastructure and harbour and additional crushing, screening and stockpiling blending of products across the network operated by BHP Billiton facilities at Yandi.
RGP 5 is expected to increase the installed and the network operated by Rio Tinto, and subject to agreement capacity of our WAIO operations by a further 50 million tonnes between the parties across both networks.
per annum to 205 million tonnes per annum 100 per cent share.
The State Agreement amendments are subject to the approval of In January 2010, we announced approval of US$1.93 billion relevant co-venturers under existing joint venture arrangements 100 per cent share of capital expenditure to underpin further and the passage of ratifying legislation by the Western Australian growth activities in the business.
The amendments are not conditional on finalisation early spend for the Groups RGP 6.
The capital will allow for of the joint venture.
early procurement of long lead items and detailed engineering to continue the expansion of the inner harbour at Port Hedland, In recognition of the value that the amendments to the State progress rail track duplication works and expand the mining Agreements are expected to generate and the need to support operations.
As at 30 June 2010, our capital spend on this local communities, the parties to the relevant State Agreements project amounted to US$687 million.
will make a contribution totalling A$350 million to the consolidated revenue of the State.
Western Australia Iron Ore Rio Tinto Joint Venture West Africa On 5 June 2009, BHP Billiton signed a Framework Agreement, including non-binding core principles, with Rio Tinto to form We are currently carrying out exploration activities in the West a 5050 production joint venture combining the economic African countries of Guinea and Liberia.
At Nimba in Guinea, interests of both companies current and future iron ore assets we are conducting concept studies to determine economic in Western Australia.
On 5 December 2009, BHP Billiton and viability, sustainability impacts and management implications Rio Tinto signed binding agreements that set out the terms of operations in this area.
During the year, we signed a Mineral that will regulate the establishment of the joint venture and Development Agreement with the Government of Liberia to its ongoing operation.
Those terms are consistent with the enable the further exploration and development of our mineral core principles set out in the Framework Agreement, except leases in that country, this is currently before the Legislature that the joint marketing of 15 per cent of output contemplated for ratification.
by the core principles will not take place: all output will be sold by BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto separately.
8 Manganese Customer Sector Group Our Manganese operations produce a combination of ores and The joint venture offers an excellent opportunity to capture substantial production and development synergies from the alloys from sites in South Africa and Australia.
The Manganese CSG is the worlds largest producer of manganese ore and among companies overlapping world-class resources.
These synergies are anticipated to come from: the top three global producers of manganese alloy.
Vb`U a aZ TW]TVXag ` aXf agb f aZ X bcXeTg baf.
Manganese alloy is a key input into the steelmaking process.
e XWhV aZ Vbfgf g[ebhZ[ f[begXe eT [Th f TaW `beX XYY V Xag Manganese high-grade ore is particularly valuable to alloy allocations of port capacity: producers because of the value in use differential over low-grade ore, which is the degree to which high-grade ore U XaW aZ bccbegha g Xf j[ V[ j `Tk ` fX cebWhVg eXVbiXel and provide further operating efficiencies: is proportionately more efficient in the alloying process than low-grade ore. bcg ` f aZ YhgheX Zebjg[ bccbegha g Xf g[ebhZ[ g[X development of consolidated, larger and more capital Our strategy is to focus on upstream resource businesses, efficient expansion projects: which have been significant contributors to our profit in FY2010.
Vb`U a aZ g[X `TaTZX`Xag cebVheX`Xag TaW ZXaXeT However, our alloy smelters add value to the overall manganese overhead activities into a single entity.
business because they enable us to access markets with an optimal mix of ore and alloy, optimise production to best suit It is intended that BHP Billitons Iron Ore President, Ian Ashby, market conditions and give us insight into the performance will be appointed as the initial Chief Executive Officer of the joint of our ores in smelters.
venture, while Sam Walsh, currently Rio Tintos Chief Executive Iron Ore and Australia will be appointed as initial Chairman Approximately 80 per cent of ore production is sold directly of the non-executive owners council.
to external customers and the remainder is used as feedstock in our alloy smelters.
Pre-conditions for formation of the joint venture include receipt of regulatory and relevant governmental clearances The Group owns and manages all manganese mining assets and approval from the shareholders of both Rio Tinto and and alloy plants through a joint venture with Anglo-American BHP Billiton.
The Framework Agreement and the binding in which the Group owns 60 per cent.
The joint venture assets agreements will terminate if the pre-conditions are not are Samancor Manganese, which owns 74 per cent of Hotazel satisfied by 31 December 2010 unless extended by Manganese Mines Pty Ltd HMM and Metalloys, both situated agreement of Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton.
in South Africa and the Groote Eylandt Mining Company Pty Ltd GEMCO and Tasmanian Electro Metallurgical Company Pty Ltd Heads of Agreement with Western Australian Government TEMCO located in Australia.
In July 2009, Samancor Manganese On 21 June 2010, BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto announced that Pty Ltd sold 26 per cent of HMM in a series of transactions they had signed a non-binding Heads of Agreement with the designed to comply with South Africas Black Economic Government of Western Australia HoA.
In May 2010, Samancor Manganese sold its 51 per cent equity stake in Manganese Metal Company Based on the HoA, the State will proceed with amendments Pty Ltd to Agattu Trading 195 Pty Ltd. to the State Agreement Acts covering operations managed by BHP Billiton and operations managed by Rio Tinto, to require 42 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Alloy Plants: 2.2.
8 Manganese Customer Sector Group continued Metalloys Mines: The Samancor Manganese Metalloys alloy plant is one of Hotazel the largest manganese alloy producers in the world.
Due to HMM owns the Mamatwan open-cut mine and the Wessels its size and access to high-quality feedstock from the Hotazel underground mine.
The ore contained in these mines require operations, it is also one of the lowest-cost alloy producers.
only crushing and screening to create saleable product with Metalloys produces high and medium-carbon ferromanganese no further upgrade steps required.
was increased in response to higher demand.
TEMCO GEMCO TEMCO is a meduim-sized producer of high-carbon As a result of its location near our own port facilities and ferromanganese, silicomanganese and sinter using ore its simple, open-cut mining operation, GEMCO is one of the shipped from GEMCO, primarily using hydro-electric power.
lowest-cost manganese ore producers in the world.
Simple operations combined with its high-grade of ore and relative proximity to Asian export markets, make GEMCO unique among the worlds manganese mines.
During FY2010, production was increased in response to higher demand.
Information on Manganese mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
These tables should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
2 and reserve tables see section 2.14.2.
Name, location, mineralisation Ownership, operation style, type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source Hotazel Manganese Hotazel Manganese Mines Pty Mamatwan was commissioned Mamatwans capacity is currently in 1964.
3.5 mtpa of ore and sinter based Mines Pty Ltd Ltd, a 74% owned subsidiary of Samancor Manganese.
HMM is the on the current product mix at Kalahari Basin, South Africa Wessels was commissioned the mine.
The beneficiation plant owner of Mamatwan and Wessels in 1973.
Mamatwan is an open-cut mine.
The other 26% is held by: consists of primary, secondary Wessels is an underground mine.
and tertiary crushing with Ntsimbintle 9%: NCAB, 7%: Iziko, The ore occurs in Proterozoic 5% and HMM Education Trust, associated screening plants.
BHP Billiton is the operator There is a dense medium associated with banded iron of the mines.
separator and a sinter plant with formation hosted by the a capacity of 1 mtpa of sinter.
The existing New Order Rights Hotazel Formation.
Wessels has eight loaders and The mines are accessible by rail seven haulers with an annual In implementing the and public road.
Most ore and capacity of approximately 1 mtpa transformation strategy, sinter products are transported of ore.
The processing is a simple Samancor Manganese undertook by government-owned rail.
crushing and screening circuit four empowerment transactions Approximately one third of the consisting of primary and to increase the HDSA shareholding ore produced is beneficiated secondary crushing circuits with in HMM to 26%.
This is aligned locally with the balance exported associated screening capacity.
to the Mining Charter intents.
via Port Elizabeth, Richards Bay The power source is the national and Durban.
BHP Billiton own 60% of The mine was first commissioned The beneficiation process consists Groote Eylandt Mining Company Pty Ltd GEMCO GEMCO and operates the mine.
in 1965. of crushing, screening, washing The remaining 40% is owned and dense media separation with Groote Eylandt, Northern by Anglo American.
lump and fines products being Territory, Australia produced.
The existing capacity All leases situated on Aboriginal The ore occurs in partially is 4.2 wet mtpa.
land held under the Aboriginal supergene enriched stratiform Land Rights Northern Territory GEMCO owns and operates Cretaceous sandstone Act 1976.
The existing leases are its own on-site diesel power claystone associated type valid until 2031. generation facility.
sedimentary orebodies Open-cut mine Ore is transported from the concentrator by road train directly to our shipping facilities at the port at Milner Bay.
