3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued Our objective and commitments are pursued through our 3.2 Our strategy six strategic drivers: Our objective as a corporation is to create long-term People the foundation of our business is our people.
value for shareholders through the discovery, development We require people to find resources, develop those resources, and conversion of natural resources, and the provision operate the businesses that produce our products, and of innovative customer and market-focused solutions.
then deliver those products to our customers.
Talented To achieve this, we aim to own and operate a portfolio and motivated people are our most precious resource.
of upstream, large, long-life, low-cost, expandable, Licence to operate we aim to ensure that the communities export-oriented assets across a diversified geographic in which we operate value our citizenship.
Licence to operate and commodity base, and pursue growth opportunities means win-win relationships and partnerships.
This includes consistent with our core skills by: a central focus on health, safety, environment and the W fVbiXe aZ eXfbheVXf g[ebhZ[ bhe Xkc beTg ba TVg i g Xf.
community, and making a positive difference to our host communities.
WXiX bc aZ TaW VbaiXeg aZ g[X` a bhe 6F:f. World-class assets our world-class assets provide the cash WXiX bc aZ Vhfgb`Xe TaW `Te Xg YbVhfXW fb hg baf g[ebhZ[ flows that are required to build new projects, to contribute to our Marketing arm: the economies of the countries in which we operate, to meet TWW aZ f[TeX[b WXe iT hX UXlbaW g[X VTcTV gl bY g[XfX Zebhcf our obligations to our employees, suppliers and partners, and through the activities of the Group Functions.
ultimately to pay dividends to our shareholders.
We maintain In pursuing our objective, we are guided by our commitment high-quality assets by managing them in the most effective to safety, simplicity and accountability.
Financial strength and discipline we have a solid A credit Our overriding commitment is to safety: ensuring the safety of our people, respecting our environment and the communities rating, which balances financial flexibility with the cost of finance.
Our capital management program has three priorities: in which we work.
This commitment transcends everything we do and guides every aspect of our work.
To return excess capital to shareholders.
To reinvest in our extensive pipeline of world-class projects Our commitment to simplicity and accountability allows that carry attractive rates of return regardless of the us to focus on the most important drivers of value while economic climate.
empowering our people to operate within their authority To ensure a solid balance sheet.
Project pipeline we are focused on delivering an enhanced resource endowment to underpin future generations of growth.
We have an abundance of tier one resources in stable countries that provide us with a unique set of options to deliver brownfield growth.
Growth options we use exploration, technology and our global footprint to look beyond our current pipeline to secure a foundation of growth for future generations.
We pursue growth options in several ways covering the range from extending existing operations to new projects in emerging regions, through exploration, technology and, on occasion, merger and acquisition activity.
3.3 Key measures Our management and Board monitor a range of financial and operational performance indicators, reported on a monthly basis, to measure performance over time.
Overall financial success We use several financial measures to monitor the financial success of our overall strategy.
2010 2009 2008 Profit attributable to members 12,722 5,877 15,390 Profit from operations 20,031 12,160 24,145 1 Underlying EBIT 19,719 18,214 24,282 1 2 Underlying EBIT margin 40.7% 40.1% 47.5% 2 Return on capital employed 26.4% 24.6% 37.5% Net operating cash flow US$M 17,920 18,863 17,817 2 Gearing 6.3% 12.1% 17.8% Basic earnings per share US cents 228.6 105.6 275.3 1 Underlying EBIT is profit from operations, excluding the effect of exceptional items.
1 for more information about this measure, including a reconciliation to profit from operations.
2 See section 10 for glossary definitions.
The two key measures are profit attributable to members of the BHP Billiton Group and Underlying EBIT.
Underlying EBIT is the internally defined key financial measure used by management for monitoring the performance of our operations.
We explain the calculations and why we use this measure in section 3.6.
100 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 3.3 Key measures continued The following are other measures that assist us to monitor our overall performance.
People and licence to operate These foundational strategic drivers bring together health, safety, environment and community HSEC related measures.
These measures are a subset of the HSEC Targets Scorecard, which can be found in each corresponding section of our Sustainability Report at www.
We monitor a comprehensive set of health, safety, environment and community contribution indicators.
Two key measures are the Total Recordable Injury Frequency TRIF and community investment.
2010 2009 2008 People and licence to operate health, safety, environment and community 1 Total Recordable Injury Frequency TRIF 5.3 5.6 5.9 1 Community investment US$M 200.5 197.8 141.0 1 See section 10 for glossary definitions.
Safety Despite strong performance improvement across the We have a five-year target of a 10 per cent improvement in organisation, sadly we experienced the loss of five colleagues our land rehabilitation index by 2012.
This index is based on at our operations during the year.
a ratio of land rehabilitated compared with our land footprint.
In FY2010, the index improved by one per cent due to We made an incremental improvement in Total Recordable Injury the development of new green and brownfield projects Frequency which comprises fatalities, lost-time cases, restricted and the divestment of a number of operations, including work cases and medical treatment cases per million hours Optimum Colliery in 2008, which had large areas of land worked from 5.6 to 5.3 per million hours worked.
This is over under rehabilitation.
halfway towards our target of a 50 per cent reduction on 2007 TRIF performance of 7.4 by 2012.
We have a five-year target of a 10 per cent improvement in the ratio of water recycled to high-quality water consumed Health We are progressing well with our health performance by 30 June 2012.
This water use index has improved objectives.
We had 164 new cases of occupational disease seven per cent on our FY2007 base year.
reported in FY2010, 52 fewer new cases compared with the FY2007 base year.
The overall reduction in occupational disease We define a significant environmental incident as one with since FY2007 is 27 per cent, which is on track to meet our target a severity rating of four or above based on our internal severity of a 30 per cent reduction in incidences in occupational disease rating scale tiered from one to five by increasing severity.
among our employees by June 2012.
One significant incident occurred during FY2010 at our Pinto Valley Operations US involving a tailings release.
The majority It is mandatory for our employees who may be potentially of the eroded tailings and cover material were recovered.
exposed to airborne substances or noise in excess of our Metal concentrations in surface water and sediments appear occupational exposure limits OELs to wear personal protective to be well below levels that could present a hazard.
Compared with the FY2007 base year there was a 3.9 per cent reduction in the proportion of employees potentially Community We continue to invest one per cent of our pre-tax exposed in excess of OELs in FY2010, which is behind schedule to profits in community programs, based on the average of the meet our target of a 15 per cent reduction in potential employee previous three years pre-tax profit publicly reported in each exposures over our occupational exposure limits.
During FY2010, our voluntary investment totalled US$200.5 million comprising cash, in-kind support and Environment In FY2010, we reduced absolute greenhouse administrative costs and includes a US$80 million contribution gas emissions by more than three million tonnes compared to BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities.
Despite the global financial crisis, our direct expenditure We have five-year targets of a six per cent reduction in our on community programs during the year was similar to our greenhouse gas emissions intensity index and a 13 per cent expenditure in FY2009.
reduction in our carbon-based energy intensity index, both by 30 June 2012.
Our greenhouse intensity index is currently tracking at seven per cent below our FY2006 base year.
Our carbon-based energy intensity index is currently tracking at six per cent below our FY2006 base year.
