Lo w-cost assets with strong cash generation Marcus Randolph Group Executive and Chief Executive Ferrous and Coal Building large iron ore and coal mines typically means building Our strategy is to run our large, both a mine and associated rail and port facilities that allow the low-cost, bulk raw materials mines product to reach international markets.
The initial cost of these at capacity and to grow them integrated facilities is very high.
However, once they have been built, subsequent expansions are much lower in cost than the in a steady series of expansions.
The key to our success in producing bulk raw materials iron ore, metallurgical coal and energy coal is low-cost assets with large resource bases that can support steady production growth.
The bulk raw materials are relatively lower-value minerals, where high production volumes are necessary for a mine to reach economic scale.
With each of these minerals, we are steadily expanding production from our existing mines that have large mineral resources, and we own all or major parts of our logistics operations.
The best example of this strategy We have expanded our in action is our Iron Ore business, where we have expanded our Iron Ore business to achieve integrated mine, rail and port system to achieve 10 consecutive 1 0 consecutive annual annual production records.
Large expansions are also underway production records.
at our Metallurgical Coal mines in Australia and we are progressing the development of a new mine in Indonesia.
Energy Coal is also being rapidly expanded in Australia.
This high-volume and high-growth strategy has been enhanced by our marketing approach.
The pricing basis for these three products recently moved away from annually negotiated contracts to short-term prices that move with the market.
With this change, we have also grown the market for spot sales.
This means that we expect to be able to find a willing buyer for our product, at the market price, under all market conditions.
Due to our low production costs, we expect to be profitable even during market downturns and this reliable access to a market for our production is therefore an important source of value to us.
The Western Australia Iron Ore business is again a good example of this strategy in action: despite a downturn in the steel industry during the global financial crisis, our operations continued to show consistent growth.
Northern Territory, Australia, Groote Eylandt Mining Company GEMCO GEMCO is one of the worlds leading suppliers of manganese ore and is supported by high-quality products, customer focus and our Charter values.
GEMCO is set strategically close to world markets: products leave the port bound for a variety of domestic and international destinations.
22 | BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2010 Andrew Mackenzie Group Executive and Chief Executive Non-Ferrous To retain our global leadership position in the diversified natural Growth plans continued to progress resources industry, we strive to maximise the value of our assets.
at many of our non-ferrous assets A key element of our approach is optimising the opportunities during the last financial year, presented by managing a resource basin, where the viability of multiple expansion options is more attractive than investing supporting our focus on developing in isolated deposits.
Reflecting this preference for developing quality assets, we are on schedule in our expansion plans at several operations.
The growth of our mining and processing capacity at the Antamina copper and zinc mine in northern Peru is on track, with construction commencing during the March quarter of this year.
Although fiscal year production at Antamina has been impacted by the mineral grade, in the longer term the expansion will increase the assets ore processing capacity by 38 per cent.
A key element of our Also in South America, our Escondida operation in Chile delivered approach is optimising the stronger production over the half year to December 2009, while the mineral grade affected production in the March quarter opportunities presented by of this year.
Over time, Escondida has the potential to increase managing a resource basin.
processing capacity due to its extensive mining resources.
Our major expansion project at Olympic Dam in Australia progressed in its regulatory review during FY2010.
Olympic Dam, the worlds largest uranium deposit, has the potential to exceed the typical 60-year lifespan of an asset of its type, providing our customers with the highest degree of security of supply.
This security is unchanged by the Australian Governments decision to exclude resources such as uranium from its proposed minerals tax, and the proposed expansion of Olympic Dam remains an important element in our vision to create long-term value for the BHP Billiton Group.
Our potash operation in Canada was fortified in FY2010 with the completed acquisition of Athabasca Potash Inc, providing BHP Billiton with control of various potash exploration properties in Saskatchewan.
In other business areas, lead and silver production levels were higher for most of the fiscal year, as was nickel production, while aluminium production remained generally steady compared with the previous year.
Western Australia, Nickel West Nickel West is a fully integrated nickel business comprising mines, concentrators, a smelter and a refinery.
Part of our Stainless Steel Materials operation, which is the worlds fourth largest nickel producer, Nickel West supplies various forms of nickel to a range of industries.
