Notes to Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued When a hedging instrument expires or is sold or terminated, or under the JORC Code.
Lower price assumptions generally result when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, in lower estimates of reserves.
any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains Reserve reporting requirements for SEC United States of America in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is filings are specified in Industry Guide 7, which requires economic ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a hedged assumptions to be based on current economic conditions which forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative may differ from assumptions based on reasonable investment hedge gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately assumptions.
Accordingly, for SEC filings, we test our reserve transferred to the income statement.
estimates derived under JORC against assumed current economic conditions.
Current economic conditions are based on the Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting three-year historical average contract prices for commodities, Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
such as iron ore and coal, and the three-year historical average Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does for commodities that are traded on the London Metal Exchange, not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately such as copper and nickel.
However, we only report a different in the income statement.
reserve in the US if, based on the US SEC pricing assumptions test, the reserve will be lower than that reported under JORC Available for sale and trading investments in Australia and the UK.
Available for sale and trading investments are measured Oil and gas reserves reported in Australia and the UK, and the US at fair value.
Gains and losses on the remeasurement of trading for SEC filing purposes are based on the average of prices prevailing investments are recognised directly in the income statement.
on the first day of each month for the past 12 months as required Gains and losses on the remeasurement of available for sale under the new SEC Rules Modernisation of Oil & Gas Reporting.
investments are recognised directly in equity and subsequently Reserves reported in prior periods are based on the prices prevailing recognised in the income statement when realised by sale at the time of the estimates as previously required by Statement or redemption, or when a reduction in fair value is judged of Financial Accounting Standards No.
69 Disclosures about Oil to represent an impairment.
and Gas Producing Activities, issued by the US Financial Accounting Standards Board.
Application of critical accounting policies and estimates Because the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires change from period to period, and because additional geological management to make judgements and estimates and form data is generated during the course of operations, estimates of assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and reserves may change from period to period.
Changes in reported liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date reserves may affect the Groups financial results and financial of the financial statements, and the reported revenue and position in a number of ways, including the following: expenses during the periods presented therein.
On an ongoing 4ffXg VTeel aZ T`bhagf `Tl UX TYYXVgXW WhX gb V[TaZXf a basis, management evaluates its judgements and estimates in estimated future cash flows.
relation to assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities, revenue and expenses.
Management bases its judgements and estimates on 7XceXV Tg ba WXc Xg ba TaW T`beg fTg ba V[TeZXW a g[X aVb`X historical experience and on other various factors it believes to statement may change where such charges are determined be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form by the units of production basis, or where the useful economic the basis of the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not lives of assets change.
readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from BiXeUheWXa eX`biT Vbfgf eXVbeWXW ba g[X UT TaVX f[XXg be these estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
charged to the income statement may change due to changes in stripping ratios or the units of production basis of depreciation.
The Group has identified the following critical accounting policies under which significant judgements, estimates and assumptions 7XVb`` ff ba aZ f gX eXfgbeTg ba TaW Xai eba`XagT cebi f baf are made and where actual results may differ from these estimates may change where changes in estimated reserves affect under different assumptions and conditions and may materially expectations about the timing or cost of these activities.
affect financial results or the financial position reported in G[X VTeel aZ T`bhag bY WXYXeeXW gTk TffXgf `Tl V[TaZX WhX gb future periods.
changes in estimates of the likely recovery of the tax benefits.
Further details of the nature of these assumptions and conditions Exploration and evaluation expenditure may be found in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
The Groups accounting policy for exploration and evaluation Reserve estimates expenditure results in certain items of expenditure being capitalised for an area of interest where it is considered likely to be recoverable Reserves are estimates of the amount of product that can be by future exploitation or sale or where the activities have not reached economically and legally extracted from the Groups properties.
a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence In order to estimate reserves, estimates are required about of reserves.
This policy requires management to make certain a range of geological, technical and economic factors, including estimates and assumptions as to future events and circumstances, quantities, grades, production techniques, recovery rates, in particular whether an economically viable extraction operation production costs, transport costs, commodity demand, can be established.
Any such estimates and assumptions may change commodity prices and exchange rates.
as new information becomes available.
If, after having capitalised Estimating the quantity and or grade of reserves requires the the expenditure under the policy, a judgement is made that recovery size, shape and depth of orebodies or fields to be determined of the expenditure is unlikely, the relevant capitalised amount will by analysing geological data such as drilling samples.
This process be written off to the income statement.
may require complex and difficult geological judgements to interpret the data.
Development expenditure Development activities commence after project sanctioning The Group determines and reports ore reserves in Australia and by the appropriate level of management.
Judgement is applied by the UK under the principles incorporated in the Australasian Code management in determining when a project is economically viable.
for Reporting Exploration Results of Mineral Resources and Ore In exercising this judgement, management is required to make Reserves December 2004, known as the JORC Code.
The JORC certain estimates and assumptions similar to those described above Code requires the use of reasonable investment assumptions for capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure.
Any such when reporting reserves.
As a result, management will form estimates and assumptions may change as new information a view of forecast sales prices, based on current and long-term becomes available.
If, after having commenced the development historical average price trends.
For example, if current prices remain activity, a judgement is made that a development asset is impaired, above long-term historical averages for an extended period of time, the appropriate amount will be written off to the income statement.
management may assume that lower prices will prevail in the future and as a result, those lower prices are used to estimate reserves 20 20 202 2 2 | | | BHP BHP BHP BIL BIL BILL L LI I IT T TO O ON N N A A AN N NNU NU NUA A AL L L RE RE REP P PO O ORT RT RT 2 2 20 0 01 1 10 0 0
