5 Corporate Governance Statement continued The Code applies to Directors and to all employees, regardless 5.8 Diversity at BHP Billiton of their position or location.
Consultants, contractors and Corporate governance reviews have highlighted that there business partners are also expected to act in accordance is a continuing lack of diversity among experienced Director with the Code.
candidates in Australia and the UK.
The Board is reviewing its current practices, including assessing how the Board and the Nomination Committee presently take into account diversity The BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct criteria, including geographic location, race and gender, as part can be found at our website at of a Director candidates general background and experience.
This review will include an assessment of the Board Committees Terms of Reference to consider whether amendments are Insider trading required to formalise diversity considerations.
The BHP Billiton We have a Securities Dealing document that covers dealings Human Resources Policy guides the Board and management by Directors and identified employees, and is consistent with in developing diversity objectives for the Group.
The Human the Model Code contained in the Financial Services Authority Resources Policy is supported by internal processes that will Listing Rules in the UK.
The Securities Dealing document set out measurable objectives to support the achievement restricts dealings by Directors and identified employees of diversity across the Group.
in shares and other securities during designated prohibited periods and at any time that they are in possession of unpublished price-sensitive information.
A summary of our Human Resources Policy and the measurable objectives adopted to support diversity can be found on our website at A copy of the Securities Dealing document www.
can be found at our website at www.
Our approach to diversity is underpinned by key principles, including: Global Ethics Advisory Panel T W iXefX jbe YbeVX f aXVXffTel gb g[X WX iXel bY bhe The CEO has formed a Global Ethics Advisory Panel to: strategy that is predicated on diversification by commodity, geography and market: TWi fX ba `TggXef TYYXVg aZ g[X iT hXf TaW UX[Ti bhef of the Group: bhe Tfc eTg ba f gb [TiX T jbe YbeVX g[Tg UXfg eXceXfXagf assist business leaders in assessing acceptable outcomes the communities in which our assets are located and our employees live: on issues of business ethics: TVg baf g[Tg fhccbeg bhe W iXef gl Tfc eTg baf f[bh W review the rationale, structure and content of the BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct and propose changes: be consistent with our established approach to talent, performance and reward: promote awareness and effective implementation TV[ Xi aZ Ta Tccebce TgX XiX bY W iXef gl j eXdh eX of the BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct.
structured programs at an early career stage that ensure Panel members have been selected on the basis of their the development of necessary skills and experience for knowledge of and experience in contemporary aspects of leadership roles: ethics and culture that are relevant to the Group.
The panel `XTfheTU X bU]XVg iXf a fhccbeg bY W iXef gl j UX consists of both employees and external members and is transparent, achievable over a period of time and fit chaired by the Group Executive and Chief People Officer.
for purpose: Business Conduct Advisory Service g [X fXg bY `XTfheTU X bU]XVg iXf j YbVhf ba XaTU aZ a diverse workforce by way of removing barriers to We have established a Business Conduct Advisory Service diversity and ii establishing appropriate workforce so that employees can seek guidance or express concerns representation targets.
on business-related issues and report cases of suspected misappropriations, fraud, bribery or corruption.
Reports The key measurable objective for FY2011 will be the development can be made anonymously and without fear of retaliation.
and implementation of diversity plans by each CSG, Group Arrangements are in place to investigate such matters.
Function, Minerals Exploration and Marketing, as mandated Where appropriate, investigations are conducted independently.
Each will be required to develop a Levels of activity and support processes for the Business Conduct diversity plan that takes into account the Human Resources Policy Advisory Service are monitored with activity reports presented and the principles set out above.
Each plan must be implemented to the Board.
Further information on the Business Conduct before the end of the financial year.
The requirement to formulate Advisory Service can be found in the BHP Billiton Code of and implement a diversity plan will be audited as part of the Business Conduct.
Outcomes from the audits will be linked to performance scorecards and consequential Political donations bonus outcomes.
Going forward, progress against each years We maintain a position of impartiality with respect to party measurable objectives will be disclosed in the Annual Report, politics and do not contribute funds to any political party, along with the proportion of women in our workforce, in senior politician or candidate for public office.
We do, however, management and on the Board.
There is currently one woman contribute to the public debate of policy issues that may on the Board and the proportion of women in our workforce affect our business in the countries in which we operate.
and in senior management is set out in section 2.10, where you can also find further information on diversity and our employee SEC investigation profile more generally.
In FY2010, an internal investigation was commenced into allegations of possible misconduct involving interactions with 5.9 Business conduct government officials.
Following requests from the US Securities and Exchange Commission, the Group has disclosed to relevant Code of Business Conduct authorities evidence that it has uncovered regarding possible We have published the BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct, violations of applicable anti-corruption laws involving which is available in four languages.
The Code reflects our interactions with government officials.
The Group is cooperating Charter values of integrity, respect, trust and openness.
with the relevant authorities and the internal investigation It provides clear direction and advice on conducting business is continuing.
It is not possible at this time to predict the internationally, interacting with communities, governments scope or duration of the investigation or its likely outcomes.
and business partners and general workplace behaviour.
