10 Glossary Co-Investment Plan 10.1 Non-mining terms Legacy employee share scheme.
In the context of American Depositary Shares ADS and listed investments, the term quoted means traded Community investment on the relevant exchange.
Contributions made to support communities in which we operate.
Our contributions to community programs comprise A$ cash, in-kind support and administration costs.
Our targeted Australian dollars being the currency of the level of contribution is one per cent of pre-tax profit calculated Commonwealth of Australia.
on the average of the previous three years pre-tax profit.
American Depositary Share ADS CSG An American Depositary Share is a share issued under a Customer Sector Group being the strategic business units deposit agreement that has been created to permit US-resident of BHP Billiton.
investors to hold shares in non-US companies and trade them on the stock exchanges in the US.
One ADS is equal to two CY20XX BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares.
ADSs Refers to the calendar year ending 31 December 20XX, are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, where XX is the two-digit number of the year.
which are the instruments that trade on the NYSE.
Deferred share BHP Billiton A nil-priced option or a conditional right to acquire a share Being both companies in the dual listed company structure, issued under the rules of the GIS.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
Dividend Record Date BHP Billiton Limited share The date, determined by a companys board of directors, A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of BHP Billiton Limited.
by when an investor must be recorded as an owner of shares in order to qualify for a forthcoming dividend.
BHP Billiton Limited shareholders The holders of BHP Billiton Limited shares.
DLC merger The Dual Listed Company merger between BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Limited special voting share and BHP Billiton Plc on 29 June 2001.
A single voting share issued to facilitate joint voting by shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited on Joint Electorate Actions.
DLC structure The corporate structure resulting from the DLC merger.
BHP Billiton Plc equalisation share A share that has been authorised to be issued to enable Employee Share Plan ESP a distribution to be made by BHP Billiton Plc Group to the A legacy employee share plan that commenced under BHP Billiton Limited Group should this be required under the jurisdiction of BHP Limited prior to the formation the terms of the DLC merger.
BHP Billiton Plc 5.5 per cent preference share Expected value Shares that have the right to repayment of the amount paid Expected value of a share incentive the average outcome up on the nominal value and any unpaid dividends in priority weighted by probability.
This measure takes into account of any other class of shares in BHP Billiton Plc on a return the difficulty of achieving performance conditions and of capital or winding up.
the correlation between these and share price appreciation.
The valuation methodology also takes into account factors BHP Billiton Plc share such as volatility, forfeiture risk, etc.
A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of BHP Billiton Plc.
Free on board FOB... named port of shipment BHP Billiton Plc shareholders The seller delivers when the goods pass the ships rail at The holders of BHP Billiton Plc shares.
the named port of shipment.
This means that the buyer has to bear all costs and risks of loss of or damage to the goods BHP Billiton Plc special voting share from that point.
The FOB term requires the seller to clear the A single voting share issued to facilitate joint voting by goods for export.
This term can be used only for sea or inland shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc on Joint Electorate Actions.
Board FY20XX The Board of Directors of BHP Billiton.
Refers to the financial year ending 30 June 20XX, where XX is the two-digit number for the year.
GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles.
Cost and freight CFR... named port of destination The seller must pay the costs and freight necessary to bring Gearing the goods to the named port of destination, but the risk of loss Gearing is defined as the ratio of net debt to net debt plus of or damage to the goods, as well as any additional costs due net assets.
to events occurring after the time the goods have been delivered onboard the vessel, is transferred from the seller to the buyer Group when the goods pass the ships rail in the port of shipment.
BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their subsidiaries.
The CFR term requires the seller to clear the goods for shipment.
