10 Glossary continued Restricted Share Scheme 10.1 Non-mining terms continued Legacy employee share scheme.
Group Incentive Scheme Current employee share scheme.
Return on capital employed Return on capital employed is calculated as earnings from International Financial Reporting Standards operations, excluding exceptional items and net finance Accounting standards as issued by the International Accounting costs after tax, divided by average capital employed.
Average capital employed is calculated as net assets less net debt.
Key Management Personnel Shareplus Persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly All employee share purchase plan.
or indirectly including executive Directors, and non-executive Directors.
Significant environmental incident A significant environmental incident is an occurrence that has Key Performance Indicator resulted in or had the potential to cause significant environmental Used to measure the performance of the Group, individual harm.
Our definition of significant is conservative to ensure all businesses and executives in any one year.
learnings are captured from relevant HSEC incidents.
Such an incident is rated at level 3 or above on the BHP Billiton HSEC LME Consequence Severity Table which may be viewed at our website, London Metal Exchange A London exchange which trades www.
metals e. g. lead, zinc, aluminium and nickel in forward and STRATE option markets.
Share Transactions Totally Electronic is a South African electronic Long Term Incentive Plan settlement and depository system for dematerialised equities.
Total Recordable Injuries Frequency Major capital projects Total Recordable Injury Frequency Fatalities Lost Time Capital projects in the Feasibility or Execution phase where Cases Restricted Work Cases Medical Treatment our share of capital expenditure to project completion is greater Cases 1,000,000 work hours.
Total shareholder return Market value The change in share price plus dividends.
The market value based on closing prices, or, in instances Underlying EBIT margin when an executive exercises and sells shares, the actual sale price achieved.
Calculated as Underlying EBIT as defined in section 3.6.
1, excluding third party EBIT, divided by revenue net of third party Occupational exposure limit product revenue.
The level of exposure to an agent to which it is believed that US$ nearly all workers may be repeatedly exposed, throughout a working life, without adverse health effects.
Occupational The Groups reporting currency and the functional currency exposure limits are established for chemical and physical of the majority of its operations is the US dollar as this agents and may be expressed as time-weighted average, is assessed to be the principal currency of the economic ceiling or short-term exposure limits.
environments in which they operate.
Occupational illness 10.2 Mining and mining-related terms An occupational illness is an illness that occurs as a consequence of work-related activities or exposure.
It includes acute or 2D chronic illnesses or diseases, which may be caused by inhalation, Two dimensional.
absorption, ingestion or direct contact.
A right to acquire a share on payment of an exercise price issued under the rules of the GIS.
Alumina Aluminium oxide Al O. Alumina is produced from bauxite Performance share 2 3 in the refining process.
Alumina is then converted reduced A nil-priced option or a conditional right to acquire a share, in an electrolysis cell to produce aluminium metal.
subject to a Performance Hurdle, issued under the rules of the LTIP.
Bauxite Chief ore of aluminium.
Performance share plan An employee share plan that commenced under the Bio-leaching jurisdiction of BHP Limited or Billiton Plc and prior to Use of naturally occurring bacteria, to leach a metal from ore: the formation of BHP Billiton.
for example, copper, zinc, uranium, nickel and cobalt from Abbreviates to PSP.
Project investment Brownfield Total budgeted capital expenditure on growth projects An exploration or development project located within an existing under development at year end.
2 mineral province which can share infrastructure and management Growth projects, for a full listing of these growth projects.
280 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Heap leach ing 10.2 Mining and mining-related terms continued A process used for the recovery of metals such as copper, nickel, Coal Reserves uranium and gold from low-grade ores.
The crushed material The same meaning as Ore Reserves, but specifically is laid on a slightly sloping, impermeable pad and leached concerning coal.
by uniformly trickling gravity fed a chemical solution through the beds to ponds.
The metals are recovered from the solution.
Coking coal Ilmenite By virtue of its carbonisation properties, is used in the manufacture of coke, which is used in the steelmaking process.
The principle ore of titanium composed of iron, titanium and Coking coal may also be referred to as metallurgical coal.
3 Condensate Leaching A mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in gaseous form in natural The process by which a soluble metal can be economically underground reservoirs, but which condense to form a liquid at recovered from minerals in ore by dissolution.
Liquefied natural gas LNG Copper cathode Consists largely of methane that has been liquefied through Electrolytically refined copper that has been deposited on the chilling and pressurisation.
One tonne of LNG is approximately cathode of an electrolytic bath of acidified copper sulphate equivalent to 45.9 thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
The refined copper may also be produced through leaching and electrowinning.
Liquefied petroleum gas LPG Consists of propane and butane and a small amount less Crude oil than two per cent of ethane that has been liquefied through A mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in liquid form in natural pressurisation.
One tonne of LPG is approximately equivalent underground reservoirs, and remain liquid at atmospheric to 11.6 barrels.
pressure after being produced at the well head and passing through surface separating facilities.
Marketable Coal Reserves Represents beneficiated or otherwise enhanced coal product Cut-off grade and should be read in conjunction with, but not instead of, A nominated grade above which is defined some mineral reports of coal reserves.
For example, the lowest grade of mineralised material that qualifies as economic for estimating Metallurgical coal an Ore Reserves.
A broader term than coking coal, which includes all coals used in steelmaking, such as coal used for the pulverised Electrowinning electrowon coal injection process.
An electrochemical process in which metal is recovered by dissolving a metal within an electrolyte and plating Open-cut open-pit OC OP it onto an electrode.
Surface working in which the working area is kept open to the sky.
Energy coal Used as a fuel source in electrical power generation, cement Ore Reserves manufacture and various industrial applications.
Energy coal That part of a mineral deposit that could be economically may also be referred to as steaming or thermal coal.
and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
Ethane Probable Ore Reserves Where sold separately, is largely ethane gas that has been liquefied through pressurisation.
One tonne of ethane is Reserves for which quantity and grade and or quality are approximately equivalent to 26.8 thousand cubic feet of gas.
computed from information similar to that used for proven measured reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling Flotation and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less A method of selectively recovering minerals from finely ground adequately spaced.
The degree of assurance, although lower ore using a froth created in water by specific reagents.
In the than that for proven measured reserves, is high enough flotation process, certain mineral particles are induced to float to assure continuity between points of observation.
by becoming attached to bubbles of froth and the unwanted Proved oil and gas reserves mineral particles sink.
The estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural Grade gas liquids that geological and engineering data demonstrate The relative quantity, or the percentage, of metal or mineral with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years content in an orebody.
from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions i. e. prices and costs as of the date the estimate Greenfield is made.
The development or exploration located outside the area Proved Ore Reserves of influence of existing mine operations infrastructure.
Reserves for which a quantity is computed from dimensions Head grade revealed in outcrops, trenches and workings on drill holes and grade and or quality are computed from the results of The average grade of ore delivered to a process for mineral extraction.
detailed samplings: and b the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geological character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established.
