"1 Accounting policies continued 9EF, ""44F5, 9 aTaV T afgeh`Xagf `bW Y Xf g[X Jointly controlled assets classification and measurement of financial assets: The Group has certain contractual arrangements with other `cebiX`Xagf gb 9EFf %#$#""44F5 %#$# & 4`XaW`Xagf participants to engage in joint activities that do not give rise to to Australian Accounting Standards arising from the Annual a jointly controlled entity."
These arrangements involve the joint Improvements Project and AASB 2010-4 Further Amendments ownership of assets dedicated to the purposes of each venture to Australian Accounting Standards arising from the Annual but do not create a jointly controlled entity as the venturers directly Improvements Project include a collection of minor derive the benefits of operation of their jointly owned assets, rather amendments to IFRS.
than deriving returns from an interest in a separate entity.
These standards and interpretations are available for early adoption The financial statements of the Group include its share of the in the 30 June 2010 financial year other than in the EU but have assets in such joint ventures, together with the liabilities, revenues not been applied in the preparation of these financial statements.
and expenses arising jointly or otherwise from those operations.
The potential impacts on the financial statements of the Group All such amounts are measured in accordance with the terms of of adopting these standards and interpretations have not yet been each arrangement, which are usually in proportion to the Groups determined unless otherwise indicated.
The latter two standards interest in the jointly controlled assets.
referred to above have not been endorsed by the EU and hence are not available for early adoption in the EU.
Business combinations Business combinations that occurred between 1 July 2004 and Basis of measurement 30 June 2009 were accounted for by applying the purchase The financial statements are drawn up on the basis of historical method of accounting, whereby the purchase consideration of cost principles, except for derivative financial instruments and the combination is allocated to the identifiable net assets acquired.
certain other financial assets which are carried at fair value.
Business combinations prior to 1 July 2004 have been accounted for in accordance with the Groups previous policies under Currency of presentation Australian GAAP and UK GAAP and have not been restated.
All amounts are expressed in millions of US dollars, unless Business combinations in the current financial year are accounted otherwise stated, consistent with the predominant functional for by applying the acquisition method of accounting, whereby the currency of the Groups operations.
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identifiable net assets are measured on the basis of fair value at the date Change in accounting policy of acquisition.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied by all entities included in the Group consolidated financial statements Goodwill and are consistent with those applied in all prior years presented Where the fair value of consideration paid for a business combination other than changes required by the adoption of new and amended exceeds the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net accounting standards and interpretations as discussed above.
assets acquired, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
Where the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net Principles of consolidation assets acquired exceeds the cost of acquisition, the difference is The financial statements of the Group include the consolidation immediately recognised in the income statement.
The recognition of BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their respective of goodwill attributable to a non-controlling interest in a business subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by either parent combination is determined on a transaction by transaction basis.
Control exists where either parent entity has the power Goodwill is not amortised, however its carrying amount is assessed to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so annually against its recoverable amount as explained below under as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are included Impairment of non-current assets.
On the subsequent disposal in the consolidated financial report from the date control or termination of a previously acquired business, any remaining commences until the date control ceases.
Where the Groups balance of associated goodwill is included in the determination interest is less than 100 per cent, the interest attributable to of the profit or loss on disposal or termination.
outside shareholders is reflected in non-controlling interests.
The effects of all transactions between entities within the Intangible assets Group have been eliminated.
Amounts paid for the acquisition of identifiable intangible assets, such as software and licences, are capitalised at the fair value Joint ventures of consideration paid and are recorded at cost less accumulated The Group undertakes a number of business activities through amortisation and impairment charges.
Identifiable intangible assets joint ventures.
Joint ventures are established through contractual with a finite life are amortised on a straight-line basis over their arrangements that require the unanimous consent of each of the expected useful life, which is typically no greater than eight years.
venturers regarding the strategic financial and operating policies The Group has no identifiable intangible assets for which the of the venture joint control.
The Groups joint ventures are of expected useful life is indefinite.
two types: Foreign currencies Jointly controlled entities The Groups reporting currency and the functional currency of A jointly controlled entity is a corporation, partnership or the majority of its operations is the US dollar as this is assessed other entity in which each participant holds an interest.
A jointly to be the principal currency of the economic environments in which controlled entity operates in the same way as other entities, they operate.
controlling the assets of the joint venture, earning its own income Transactions denominated in foreign currencies currencies other and incurring its own liabilities and expenses.
Interests in jointly than the functional currency of an operation are recorded using controlled entities are accounted for using the proportionate the exchange rate ruling at the date of the underlying transaction.
consolidation method, whereby the Groups proportionate interest Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies in the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of jointly controlled are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at year end and the entities are recognised within each applicable line item of the gains or losses on retranslation are included in the income statement, financial statements.
The share of jointly controlled entities with the exception of foreign exchange gains or losses on foreign results is recognised in the Groups financial statements from the currency provisions for site closure and rehabilitation, which are date that joint control commences until the date at which it ceases.
capitalised in property, plant and equipment for operating sites.
Exchange variations resulting from the retranslation at closing rate of the net investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures arising after 1 July 2004 are accounted for in accordance with the policy stated below.
Exchange variations arising before this date were transferred to retained earnings at the date of transition to IFRS.
