Talented, diverse, motivated Karen Wood Group Executive and Chief People Officer Our Charter is the single most important means by which we We have an unwavering belief that communicate who we are, what we do and what we stand for by working in a way that is consistent as an organisation.
It is through the Charter that we articulate with our Charter, we will continue our purpose, the strategic drivers that guide us and the values we hold dear.
At BHP Billiton, we are committed to our Charter to build on our success both today and use it to guide the way we work and the decisions we make.
We have an unwavering belief that by working in a way that is consistent with our Charter, we will continue to build on our success both today and for the long term.
The BHP Billiton Way describes the way we strive to achieve simplicity, accountability and effectiveness.
We understand that the strongest relationships with, and between, our employees are based on trust.
Employees by Region FY2010 Safety Australia 38% We believe we can be a business that does not have serious Europe 1% injuries, illnesses and fatalities.
The only way to achieve a step North America 8% Rest of the world 4% change reduction in injuries and eliminate fatalities is through South America 24% strong accountable leadership that will focus on identifying South Africa 25% hazards, implementing appropriate controls and ongoing measurement of control effectiveness.
Our global operations comprise about 100,000 employees and contractors, typically talented and hard-working individuals.
The team at BHP Billiton is deeply affected by any fatality and, on behalf of the people of BHP Billiton, I extend our sympathies to the families, friends and colleagues of the five people who lost their lives at work in FY2010.
We are working hard to improve our performance and consider that we will only be truly successful when no one is killed or injured in our workplace.
Identifying hazards and putting appropriate controls in place is a fundamental aspect of our business and we will continue to work on reducing injury frequency.
We have a target of reducing our Total Recordable Injury Frequency by 50 per cent on FY2007 to 3.7 per million hours by FY2012.
In FY2010, we saw a reduction in Total Recordable Injury Frequency to 5.3 per cent compared with 5.6 per cent in FY2009.
Port Hedland, Western Australia Our Port Hedland operation exports iron ore products to Japan, Korea, Taiwan, China, Europe and Australia.
The Contractor Management Improvement Project was endorsed in July 2009 to improve the way the business applies a range of standards, including health, safety and human resources, to its contractors.
24 | BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2010 There were positive results achieved in many of our safety programs during the year, including taking a leadership role in working with the Flight Safety Foundation FSF to raise the standard of aviation operations supporting the worldwide resources sector.
Leadership Our people strategy is founded on attracting, developing and retaining talented employees, as evidenced by our long track record of global recruitment.
To enable all employees to embrace their responsibilities, we require our leaders to visibly hold themselves and others accountable for living our Company values as outlined in our Charter: to put safety first: to make people a priority: and to be functionally excellent and work with discipline to deliver Our global operations comprise what we agree.
about 100,000 employees and In operating our business, we ask leaders to work with simplicity contractors, typically talented by focusing on the few things that will make a real difference.
We also ask that they assume the accountabilities that come with their roles.
In this way, we believe we will become a more effective organisation.
The leadership styles we encourage are designed to bring out the best in others by influencing in ways that transcend self-interest: engaging people on an individual and personal level: challenging assumptions: and inspiring people about their future at BHP Billiton.
Our strategy is predicated on diversification by geography, commodity and market.
To meet that strategic imperative, we must recruit and retain talented employees from around the world.
The composition of our Group Management Committee illustrates our represented global diversity, with senior executives born in Colombia, US, Brazil, South Africa, UK and Australia.
Our workforce is predominantly male and we recognise there is an improvement in gender balance required.
During FY2011, specific initiatives will be taken at all levels to address this issue.
Spence, Chile The open-cut Spence mine in the Atacama Desert produces copper cathode and is part of an international portfolio of Base Metal operations.
Diversity of gender, ethnicity, skill, thought, experience, style and language are all important elements of our people strategy and are key drivers for our success.
