11 Shareholder information continued Key dates for shareholders 11.6 Ancillary information for our shareholders The following table sets out future dates in the next financial Information for BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc and calendar year of interest to our shareholders.
If there shareholders is provided in the BHP Billiton Group Annual Report are any changes to these dates, all relevant stock exchanges 2010 and the Summary Review 2010. see section 11.1 will be notified.
The Annual Report provides the detailed financial data and information on the BHP Billiton Groups performance required Date Event to comply with the reporting regimes in Australia, UK and the US.
There are no specific disclosure requirements for the Summary 30 September 2010 Final Dividend Payment Date Review, which is published as an investor communication 21 October 2010 BHP Billiton Plc Annual General for shareholders.
Meeting in London Shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited will receive a copy of the Venue: Annual Report or the Summary Review if they have requested The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre a copy.
Shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc will receive the Annual Broad Sanctuary Westminster Report if they have requested a copy.
ADR holders may view London SW1P 3EE all documents online at www.
com or opt to receive UK a hard copy by application to the appropriate BHP Billiton Time: 11.00am local time Share Registrar.
Details of the business of the meeting are Change of shareholder details and enquiries contained in the separate Notice of Meeting Shareholders wishing to contact BHP Billiton on any matter 16 November 2010 BHP Billiton Limited Annual General Meeting relating to their shares or ADR holdings are invited to telephone in Perth the appropriate office of the BHP Billiton Share Registrar Venue: or Transfer Office listed on the inside back cover of the Perth Convention Exhibition Centre Annual Report.
21 Mounts Bay Road Perth Please ensure any changes to your shareholding details Australia are notified to the relevant Registrar in a timely manner.
Time: 10.30am local time Shareholders can also access their current shareholding Details of the business of the meeting are details and change many of these details online via BHP Billitons contained in the separate Notice of Meeting website www.
The website requires you to quote 16 February 2011 Interim Results Announced your Shareholder Reference Number SRN or Holder Identification Number HIN in order to access this information.
11 March 2011 Interim Dividend Record Date 31 March 2011 Interim Dividend Payment Date Alternative access to the Annual Report and Summary Review 24 August 2011 Annual Results Announced We offer an alternative for all shareholders who wish to be advised of the availability of the Annual Report and Summary Review through our website via an email notification.
By providing an email address through our website, shareholders will be notified by email when the Annual Report and Summary Review have been released.
Shareholders will also receive notification of other major BHP Billiton announcements by email.
If you require further information or you would like to make use of this service, please visit our website www.
ADR holders wishing to receive a hard copy of the Annual Report 2010 can do so by accessing citibank.
com or by calling Citibank Shareholder Services during business hours.
ADR holders may also contact the advisor that administers their investments.
Holders of BHP Billiton Plc shares dematerialised into STRATE should liaise directly with their Central Securities Depository Participant CSDP or broker.
