5 Corporate Governance Statement continued Chairman succession 5.4.
2 Re-election continued In addition, the Board has a policy that non-executive Directors As announced in early August 2009, Jacques Nasser succeeded Don Argus as Chairman when Mr Argus retired as Chairman who have served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first election must stand for re-election annually and a non-executive Director on 30 March 2010.
The decision to appoint Mr Nasser was agreed by the Board following from the first Annual General Meeting after the expiration of their current term.
The Board oversaw the entire succession process and was assisted in its Board support for reappointment is not automatic.
Retiring deliberations by the Nomination Committee.
Senior Independent Directors who are seeking re-election are subject to a performance Director for BHP Billiton Plc, John Buchanan, chaired the appraisal overseen by the Nomination Committee.
Following that Board and the Nomination Committee during consideration appraisal, the Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination of all matters relating to succession and internal candidates Committee, makes a determination as to whether it will endorse were not involved in any deliberations.
In addition, the global a retiring Director for re-election.
The Board will not endorse a recruitment firm, Heidrick & Struggles, was engaged as Director for re-election if his or her performance is not considered independent adviser by the Board to assist in deliberations satisfactory.
The Board will advise shareholders in the Notice and consideration of both internal and external candidates.
of Meeting whether or not re-election is supported.
KPMG supported the final process as scrutineer of a secret BHP Billiton does not apply or implement a no vacancy rule in ballot.
The Director renewal process in place for the past seven relation to Board appointments.
Accordingly, Director candidates years ensured high-quality internal candidates.
The process can be elected to the Board by ordinary resolution and are not adopted by the Board complied with best practice governance required to out-poll an incumbent Director in order to be elected.
requirements, including the UK Corporate Governance Codes recommendation that the incumbent Chairman not chair the The Board notes the recommendation in the new UK Corporate Board or the Nomination Committee when chairman succession Governance Code that Directors of FTSE 350 companies be subject is being considered.
to annual election by shareholders.
The Board strongly believes in accountability to shareholders.
BHP Billitons approach to Risk and Audit Committee Chairman succession governance necessarily takes into account the standards in The Board has previously determined that it is in the Groups all the jurisdictions in which we have securities listed, and, best interests for the succession process for the Board Chairman in particular, BHP Billitons Dual Listed Company structure and the Risk and Audit Committee RAC Chairman to be means that standards in both the UK and Australia must be conducted sequentially.
Board renewal activities during the carefully monitored.
The Board intends to carefully consider year included changes to the membership of the RAC therefore the implementation of annual election, including monitoring an orderly transition is a key consideration.
Following completion investor views, and expects to be able to form a concluded of the succession planning process for Board Chairman, the Board view during the course of FY2011 on whether annual election continued the succession planning process for the Chairman is appropriate for the Group.
The succession planning process involves careful consideration of the skills, knowledge and experience required 5.4.
3 Renewal on the Board, in particular the skills and experience required The Board plans for its own succession with the assistance to properly fulfil the duties of the RAC Chairman, given the of the Nomination Committee.
In doing this, the Board: size and complexity of the Group.
The succession planning Vbaf WXef g[X f f abj XWZX TaW XkcXe XaVX aXVXffTel process for the role of Chairman of the RAC is well developed to allow it to meet the strategic vision for the business: and the Board expects to make an announcement later in T ffXffXf g[X f f abj XWZX TaW XkcXe XaVX FY2011.
As part of the succession plan and transition process, currently represented: Mr Crawford is standing for election at the 2010 Annual General WXag Y Xf Tal f f abj XWZX TaW XkcXe XaVX abg TWXdhTgX l Meetings with a view to retiring as RAC Chairman in 2011, when represented and agrees the process necessary to ensure succession planning and transition is complete.
This approach a candidate is selected that brings those traits: is designed to facilitate an orderly succession and transition e Xi Xjf [bj 5bTeW cXeYbe`TaVX ` Z[g UX Xa[TaVXW Ubg[ for the role of Chairman of the RAC, which the Board strongly believes is in the best interests of the Group and its shareholders.
at an individual Director level and for the Board as a whole.
The Board believes that an orderly succession and renewal process is in the best interests of the Group.
The Board believes 5.5 Board Committees that orderly succession and renewal is achieved as a result The Board has established Committees to assist it in exercising of careful planning, where the appropriate composition its authority, including monitoring the performance of the of the Board is continually under review.
business to gain assurance that progress is being made towards When considering new appointments to the Board, the the corporate objective within the limits imposed by the Board.
Nomination Committee oversees the preparation of a position The permanent Committees of the Board are the Risk and Audit specification that is provided to an independent recruitment Committee, the Sustainability Committee, the Nomination organisation retained to conduct a global search.
Independent Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Other Committees search firms retained are instructed to consider a wide range are formed from time to time to deal with specific matters.
of candidates, including taking into account geographic location, Each of the permanent Committees has Terms of Reference race and gender.
In addition to the specific skills, knowledge and under which authority is delegated by the Board.
experience deemed necessary, the specification contains criteria such as: a proven track record of creating shareholder value: The Terms of Reference for each Committee can be unquestioned integrity: found at www.
a commitment to the highest standards of governance: having the required time available to devote to the job: The office of the Company Secretary provides secretariat services for each of the Committees.
Committee meeting agendas, papers strategic mind set, an awareness of market leadership, and minutes are made available to all members of the Board.
outstanding monitoring skills: Subject to appropriate controls and the overriding scrutiny of the a preparedness to question, challenge and critique: Board, Committee Chairmen are free to use whatever resources an independent point of view.
they consider necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
Newly appointed Directors must submit themselves to Reports from each of the Committees appear below.
shareholders for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
