4 Short-term incentives STI Deferral of short-term incentives STI targets are set at the beginning of each financial year, Each Deferred Share and each Option is a conditional right to acquire one ordinary BHP Billiton share upon satisfaction with actual STI rewards determined at the end of each year under the Group Incentive Scheme GIS.
It will not deliver any value to the holder for at least two years from the end of the financial The GIS rewards the executives for achieving annual goals year unless the executives employment with the Group in regard to critical KPIs of the Group.
Each individual has ends earlier in specific circumstances such as on death, a scorecard of measures that are linked to achievement serious injury, disability or illness, retirement and redundancy of the business strategy and financial outcomes and also retrenchment.
The Remuneration Committee regards it as an individual non-financial objectives reflecting their contribution important principle that Deferred Shares and Options will be to the business and the management team.
The Board forfeited by the individual in specific circumstances, including believes this method of assessment is transparent, rigorous if they resign from the Group without the committees consent and balanced, and provides an appropriate and objective or are terminated for cause within the two-year vesting assessment of performance.
Deferred Shares are not ordinary shares, and do not Cash awards are paid in September following the release carry entitlements to ordinary dividends or other shareholder of the Groups annual results.
The rules of the GIS outline the rights.
Dividends are not received by the executives during the circumstances in which participants may be entitled to a cash vesting period.
A Dividend Equivalent Payment as described award for the financial year in which they cease employment.
2 will be provided when the vesting period is Such circumstances depend on the reason for leaving.
The only over and the executive exercises their Deferred Shares and or circumstances in which the Remuneration Committee has Options.
This payment is not made in relation to any securities considered using its discretion to allow members of the that are forfeited during the vesting period.
GMC to receive a cash award in event of departure is for Deferred Shares that vest may be exercised at no cost to those individuals who have retired or are retiring.
Options have an exercise price which reflects The value of any cash award is matched by an equivalent the market price of BHP Billiton shares at the time of allocation, face value of Deferred Shares or an approximately equivalent and a greater number of Options are therefore allocated if an value of Options, or a combination of the two, at the election executive chooses this alternative.
The terms of the GIS prohibit of the participant.
Deferred Shares and Options are allocated participants from entering into hedge arrangements in respect in December after the Annual General Meetings.
Allocations of unvested Deferred Shares and Options.
Upon vesting, to the CEO are subject to shareholder approval.
Deferred Shares and Options may be exercised subject to the Securities Dealing Procedure as described in section 6.5.
The following diagram illustrates the operation and timeline of the GIS in relation to STI rewards determined as part of Total Remuneration in August 2009 as described in section 6.3.
Two years will elapse between the assessment of performance against KPIs in August 2010 and the vesting of any deferred portion of STI rewards in August 2012.
Timeline for FY2010 STI assessment and awards Target STI Cash STI Shareholder Deferred Expiry date and KPIs paid in approval Shares or of Defered determined September sought for equity Options vest Shares or in July 2009 2010 for CEO at AGMs and become Options in in October & exercisable in August 2015 November 2010 August 2012 Performance Deferred Shares against KPIs or Options assessed in allocated in August 2010 December 2010 1 July 1 July 1 July 1 July 1 July 1 July 1 July 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Beginning End of FY of FY 158 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 6.3.
4 Short-term incentives STI continued Determining STI outcomes The key measures for the GMC in FY2010, and the level of achievement against Group measures are set out below.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the KPIs set, and the relative weightings given to the different categories of KPI, effectively incentivise short-term performance.
For the Group CEO and the other Group Executives, all measures are assessed on a Group basis.
For the Business CEOs, the weighting of assessment for the non-financial measures is equally split between the Group and the businesses for which they are responsible.
Weighting for FY2010 assessment for Weighting for Weighting for other Group Group-based 1 2 3 FY2010 key performance indicators Group CEO Business CEOs Executives measures Health, Safety, Environment and Community 15% 15% 15% Overall performance in HSEC Total Recordable Injury Frequency TRIF HSEC was considered to be between Threshold and Target reflecting the disappointing safety performance in 2010.
The Sustainability and Remuneration Committees reviewed performance including the existence and cause of the five fatalities that occurred 4 during the year.
Positive progress was made on key Health and Environment initiatives.
Profit After Tax adjusted for foreign exchange, 50% 25% 25% Performance was price and exceptional items considered to be between Target and Stretch, reflecting positive outcomes against targets, primarily in respect of product volumes and cost management.
Adjusted EBIT for the businesses for which the 25% Performance was Business CEO is responsible considered to be between Target and Stretch, reflecting positive outcomes against targets, primarily in respect of product volumes and cost management.
Capital management cost and schedule 15% 15% 10% Overall performance was between Target and Stretch for a portfolio of 11 major projects.
This reflected all projects essentially working to schedule.
One project experienced cost overruns while all others delivered to capital target or under.
Individual measures based on contribution 20% 20% 50% Personal performance to management team, key project deliverables of the CEO and other of each role, business and industry leading members of the GMC was strong across initiatives, etc the range of personal measures.
Notes 1 Applicable weightings for Andrew Mackenzie, Marcus Randolph and Michael Yeager.
2 Applicable weightings for Alberto Calderon, Alex Vanselow and Karen Wood.
3 A performance range is set for each measure with the level of performance against each KPI determined as: Threshold: the minimum necessary to qualify for any reward.
Target: where the performance requirements are met.
Stretch: where the performance requirements are exceeded.
Exceptional: where the performance requirements are significantly exceeded.
4 In light of the five fatalities during the year, the CEO proposed to the Remuneration Committee that his outcome in relation to HSEC be reduced to zero.
This proposal was accepted by the committee.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | 159 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.3.
4 Short-term incentives STI continued For FY2011, GMC scorecards will continue to be based on health and safety, financial measures, capital management and individual performance as shown below.
Weighting for Weighting for Weighting for other FY2011 key performance indicators Group CEO Business CEOs Group Executives 1 HSEC The HSEC measures will reflect a holistic approach towards 15% 15% 15% sustainable performance.
The measures shall include a continued focus on safety and the risk management of fatalities and significant environmental events.
All operations shall complete Human Rights impact assessments under the Articles of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights Profit After Tax adjusted for foreign exchange, price and exceptional items 50% 25% 35% Adjusted EBIT for the businesses for which the Business CEO is responsible 25% Capital management cost and schedule 15% 15% 10% Individual measures based on contribution to management team, key project 20% 20% 40% deliverables of each role, business and industry leading initiatives, etc Note 1 The Sustainability Committee will evaluate GMC overall and individual GMC Member HSEC performance on a holistic basis taking reports from HSEC, Group Audit Services and other parties as appropriate.
Such information will include assessment of performance relative to appropriate competitive organisations where such data is available.
Actual STI provided for FY2010 performance STI targets for FY2010 were set by the Remuneration Committee in August 2009 as part of Total Remuneration as described in section 6.3.
The target cash award was 80 per cent of base salary for all members of the GMC, with a maximum cash award of 160 per cent of base salary for exceptional performance against all scorecard measures.
The following table shows the amount of at risk remuneration provided by the Board as STI in cash in September 2010 and in Deferred Shares and or Options to be allocated in December 2010 as a result of Group, business and individual performance against scorecard objectives during FY2010 with FY2009 comparative data shown in the currency in which each STI was determined.
As described above, the amount shown below in Deferred Shares and or Options has not yet provided any value to the executives, as they can generally not be exercised for at least two years from the end of the relevant financial year i. e. the FY2010 awards are expected to vest in August 2012.
The number and value of Deferred Shares and or Options which vested with executives during FY2010 is shown in section 6.4.
Average STI rewards for GMC members over the last five years are graphed against the Groups earnings in section 6.2.
Non-statutory table: Cash STI rewards shown below are the same as those reported in section 6.4.
2, but this table shows the market value of the Deferred Shares and or Options at the time of allocation.
STI rewards are shown in the currency in which they were determined, which is in US dollars unless otherwise noted rather than amortising the US dollar accounting value of each award over the relevant performance and service periods as per accounting standards.
The actual number of Deferred Shares allocated is determined by dividing the relevant value by the share price at the time of allocation.
The number of Options required to provide an approximately equivalent value will also be determined should any members of the GMC nominate this alternative, or a combination of Deferred Shares and Options based on a valuation calculated by Kepler Associates.
2 Andrew Mackenzie joined BHP Billiton in November 2008 and his FY2009 STI outcome therefore reflects a partial year only.
3 The average percentage of maximum is graphed against Group earnings in section 6.2.
Details of the interests held in BHP Billiton by members of the GMC as a result of participation in the GIS are provided in section 6.4.
