7 Directors Report continued 7.1 Principal activities, state of affairs and 7.2 Share capital and buy-back programs business review continued The BHP Billiton Limited on-market share buy-back program and the BHP Billiton Plc on-market share buy-back program Ba % h l %#$# jX TaabhaVXW g[Tg 5:C 5 gba f XaVbheTZXW were each suspended in FY2008.
The Directors do not presently by the Australian Governments decision to replace the intend to reactivate these buy-back programs.
proposed Resource Super Profits Tax with a proposed Minerals Resource Rent Tax on mined iron ore and coal from 1 July 2012, At the Annual General Meetings held during 2009, shareholders following constructive discussions with the mining industry.
authorised BHP Billiton Plc to make on-market purchases of up The Minerals Resource Rent Tax is subject to passing by the to 223,112,120 of its ordinary shares, representing approximately Australian Parliament and may differ wholly or in part in its 10 per cent of BHP Billiton Plcs issued share capital at that time.
BHP Billiton will continue to work constructively Shareholders will be asked at the 2010 Annual General Meetings with the Australian Government to ensure the detailed to renew this authority.
design of minerals taxation maintains the international During FY2010, we did not make any on-market or off-market competitiveness of the Australian resources industry into purchases of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc shares under the future.
any share buy-back program of the Group.
Ba $ 4hZhfg %#$# jX TaabhaVXW bhe T VTf[ bYYXe TaW ba 20 August 2010 we formally commenced the offer, to acquire Some of our executives are entitled to options as part of their all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Potash remuneration arrangements.
We can satisfy these entitlements Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc. PotashCorp at a price of either by the acquisition of shares on-market and, in respect US$130 in cash per PotashCorp common share.
The offer values of some entitlements, by the issue of new shares.
the total equity of PotashCorp at approximately US$40 billion The shares in column A below were purchased to satisfy awards on a fully diluted basis.
The acquisition will accelerate made under the various BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billitons entry into the fertiliser industry and is consistent employee share schemes during FY2010.
with the Companys strategy of becoming a leading global miner of potash.
PotashCorps potash mining operations are a natural fit with BHP Billitons greenfield land holdings in Saskatchewan, Canada.
No other matter or circumstance has arisen since the end of FY2010 that has significantly affected or is expected to significantly affect the operations, the results of operations or state of affairs of the Group in future years.
b On 14 December 2007, the share buy-back program was suspended.
c While BHP Billiton Limited is able to buy-back and cancel BHP Billiton Limited shares within the 10 12 limit without shareholder approval in accordance with section 257B of the Australian Corporations Act 2001, BHP Billiton Limited has not made any announcement to the market extending the on-market share buy-back program beyond 30 September 2007.
Any future on-market share buy-back program will be conducted in accordance with the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and will be announced to the market in accordance with the ASX Listing Rules.
d At the Annual General Meetings held during 2009, shareholders authorised BHP Billiton Plc to make on-market purchases of up to 223,112,120 of its ordinary shares, representing approximately 10 per cent of BHP Billiton Plcs issued share capital at that time.
