1 Accounting policies continued The provision recognised for each site is periodically reviewed Property, plant and equipment recoverable amount and updated based on the facts and circumstances available In accordance with the Groups accounting policy, each asset at the time.
Changes to the estimated future costs for operating or cash generating unit is evaluated every reporting period sites are recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting both the to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
closure and rehabilitation asset and provision.
For closed sites, If any such indication exists, a formal estimate of recoverable changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the amount is performed and an impairment loss recognised to income statement.
the extent that carrying amount exceeds recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating group In addition to the uncertainties noted above, certain closure and of assets is measured at the higher of fair value less costs to rehabilitation activities are subject to legal disputes and depending sell and value in use.
on the ultimate resolution of these issues, the final liability for these matters could vary.
The determination of fair value and value in use requires management to make estimates and assumptions about expected Taxation production and sales volumes, commodity prices considering The Groups accounting policy for taxation requires managements current and historical prices, price trends and related factors, judgement as to the types of arrangements considered to be a reserves see Reserve estimates above, operating costs, closure tax on income in contrast to an operating cost.
Judgement is also and rehabilitation costs and future capital expenditure.
These required in assessing whether deferred tax assets and certain estimates and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty: deferred tax liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet.
hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will Deferred tax assets, including those arising from unrecouped tax alter these projections, which may impact the recoverable amount losses, capital losses and temporary differences, are recognised of the assets.
In such circumstances, some or all of the carrying only where it is considered more likely than not that they will value of the assets may be further impaired or the impairment be recovered, which is dependent on the generation of sufficient charge reduced with the impact recorded in the income statement.
Deferred tax liabilities arising from temporary differences in investments, caused principally by retained earnings Defined benefit pension schemes held in foreign tax jurisdictions, are recognised unless repatriation The Groups accounting policy for defined benefit pension of retained earnings can be controlled and are not expected to occur schemes requires management to make judgements as to the in the foreseeable future.
nature of benefits provided by each scheme and thereby determine the classification of each scheme.
For defined benefit schemes, Assumptions about the generation of future taxable profits management is required to make annual estimates and assumptions and repatriation of retained earnings depend on managements about future returns on classes of scheme assets, future remuneration estimates of future cash flows.
These depend on estimates changes, employee attrition rates, administration costs, changes of future production and sales volumes, commodity prices, in benefits, inflation rates, exchange rates, life expectancy and reserves, operating costs, closure and rehabilitation costs, capital expected remaining periods of service of employees.
In making expenditure, dividends and other capital management transactions.
these estimates and assumptions, management considers advice Judgements are also required about the application of income provided by external advisers, such as actuaries.
These judgements and assumptions are subject experience differs to these estimates, actuarial gains and losses to risk and uncertainty, hence there is a possibility that changes are recognised directly in equity.
Refer to note 29 for details in circumstances will alter expectations, which may impact the of the key assumptions.
amount of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities recognised on the balance sheet and the amount of other tax losses and Provision for closure and rehabilitation temporary differences not yet recognised.
In such circumstances, The Groups accounting policy for the recognition of closure some or all of the carrying amount of recognised deferred tax assets and rehabilitation provisions requires significant estimates and liabilities may require adjustment, resulting in a corresponding and assumptions such as: requirements of the relevant credit or charge to the income statement.
legal and regulatory framework: the magnitude of possible Rounding of amounts contamination and the timing, extent and costs of required closure and rehabilitation activity.
These uncertainties may Amounts in these financial statements have, unless otherwise result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts indicated, been rounded to the nearest million dollars.
Comparatives Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to present them on the same basis as current period figures.
