iv Deferred taxation 1 Principal accounting policies Tax-effect accounting is applied in respect of corporation tax.
i Basis of accounting Full provision is made for deferred tax liabilities and deferred The BHP Billiton Plc entity accounts are prepared in accordance tax assets that represent the tax effect of timing differences which with the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 and applicable arise from the recognition in the accounts of items of revenue and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP using expense in periods different to those in which they are taxable or the historical cost convention and have been applied on deductible for corporation tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets and a consistent basis with the year ended 30 June 2009. liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply The Company has applied the exemption within FRS 29 Financial when the timing differences are expected to reverse.
Instruments: Disclosures available to parent entity accounts v Share-based payments presented in consolidated financial statements that are publicly available where disclosures are presented on a group basis.
The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set The Groups financial risk management disclosures are presented out in note 1 of the financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group in note 28 of the financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group.
and is applied with respect to all rights and options granted over BHP Billiton Plc shares including those granted to employees of other ii Foreign currencies Group companies.
However, the cost of rights and options granted The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set is recovered from subsidiaries of the Group where the participants out in note 1 of the financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group.
Details of the Employee Share Ownership Plans and the Billiton Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust the Trust iii Investments are contained in note 32 of the financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group.
BHP Billiton Plc is the Trusts sponsoring Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provisions for company and so the financial statements of BHP Billiton Plc impairments.
Fixed asset investments are assessed to ensure represent the combined financial statements of the Company carrying amounts do not exceed estimated recoverable amounts.
The carrying amount of each income generating unit is reviewed at least annually to evaluate whether the carrying amount vi Revenue recognition is recoverable or more regularly if an event or change in circumstances indicates that the carrying amount of an asset Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Dividend income may not be recoverable.
If the asset is determined to be impaired, is recognised on declaration by subsidiaries.
an impairment loss will be recorded and the asset written down based on the amount by which the asset carrying amount exceeds vii Treasury shares the higher of net realisable value and value in use.
Value in use The consideration paid for the repurchase of BHP Billiton Plc is generally determined by discounting expected future cash shares which are held as treasury shares is recognised as flows using a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate appropriate a reduction in shareholders funds and represents a reduction to the risks inherent in the asset.
viii Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set out in note 1 of the financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group.
2 Fixed assets At 30 June 2010 the Company held an investment of US$3,131 million 2009: US$3,131 million in BHP Billiton Group Ltd which represents 100 per cent of the ordinary shares on issue and US$73,710 2009: US$73,710 in BHP Billiton Finance Plc which represents 99 per cent of the ordinary shares on issue.
BHP Billiton Group Ltd and BHP Billiton Finance Plc are included in the consolidation of the BHP Billiton Group.
3 Creditors amounts falling due within one year 2010 2009 US$M US$M a Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1,050 1,016 Accruals 5 1 Total creditors 1,055 1,017 a The audit fee payable in respect of the audit of the BHP Billiton Plc parent company financial statements was a nominal amount refer to note 34 of the BHP Billiton Group financial statements for fees for the Group as a whole.
This has been included within amounts owed to Group undertakings.
4 Provisions for liabilities and charges Pension Employee liabilities benefits Total US$M US$M US$M At 1 July 2009 9 4 13 Charge for the year 1 1 Actuarial loss taken to profit and loss account reserve 1 1 Utilisation 1 1 2 Released during the year 4 4 At 30 June 2010 9 9 B B BH H HP B P B P BI I IL L LL L LI I IT T TO O ON A N A N AN N NN N NU U UA A AL L L R R RE E EP P PO O OR R RT T T 2 2 20 0 01 1 10 0 0 | | | 263 263 263
