1 Key information continued The commercial counterparties we transact with may not 1.5 Risk factors meet their obligations and negatively impact our results We believe that, because of the international scope of our We commercially contract with a large number of commercial operations and the industries in which we are engaged, there and financial counterparties including customers, suppliers, are numerous factors which may have an effect on our results and financial institutions.
The global financial crisis has and operations.
The following describes the material risks placed strains on global financial markets, reduced liquidity that could affect the BHP Billiton Group.
and impacted business conditions generally.
Our existing counterparty credit controls may not prevent a material loss due Fluctuations in commodity prices and impacts of the global to credit exposure to a major customer or financial counterparty.
financial crisis may negatively impact our results In addition, customers, suppliers, contractors or joint venture The prices we obtain for our oil, gas, minerals and other partners may fail to perform against existing contracts and commodities are determined by, or linked to, prices in world obligations.
Non-supply of key inputs or equipment may markets, which have historically been subject to substantial unfavourably impact our operations.
The Groups usual policy is to sell its products at the available sources of capital in financial markets may impact prevailing market prices.
The diversity provided by the Groups the cost and ability to fund planned investments.
These factors broad portfolio of commodities may not fully insulate the effects could negatively affect our financial condition and results of price changes.
Fluctuations in commodity prices can occur due of operations.
to sustained price shifts reflecting underlying global economic and geopolitical factors, industry demand and supply balances, Failure to discover new reserves, maintain or enhance product substitution and national tariffs.
The ongoing effects existing reserves or develop new operations could of the global financial crisis has impacted commodity markets negatively affect our future results and financial condition in terms of lower prices, reduced demand and increased price The increased demand for our products and increased production volatility.
The ongoing uncertainty and impact on global rates from our operations in recent years has resulted in existing economic growth, particularly in the developed economies, may reserves being depleted at an accelerated rate.
As our revenues impact future demand and prices for commodities.
The influence and profits are related to our oil and gas and minerals operations, of hedge and other financial investment funds participating in our results and financial conditions are directly related to the commodity markets have increased in recent years, contributing success of our exploration and acquisition efforts, and our ability to higher levels of price volatility.
The impact of potential to replace existing reserves.
Exploration activity occurs adjacent longer-term sustained price shifts and shorter-term price to established operations and in new regions, in developed volatility creates the risk that our financial and operating and less developed countries.
These activities may increase results and asset values will be materially and adversely land tenure, infrastructure and related political risks.
A failure affected by unforeseen declines in the prevailing prices in our ability to discover new reserves, enhance existing reserves of our products.
or develop new operations in sufficient quantities to maintain We seek to maintain a solid A credit rating as part of our or grow the current level of our reserves could negatively affect our results, financial condition and prospects.
Notwithstanding our financial and capital management programs the ongoing effects of the global financial crisis may There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating impact our future cash flows, ability to adequately access and ore and oil and gas reserves, and geological, technical and source capital from financial markets and our credit rating.
economic assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes Our profits may be negatively affected by currency available.
The impacts of the global financial crisis may impact exchange rate fluctuations economic assumptions related to reserve recovery and require Our assets, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide reserve restatements.
Reserve restatements could negatively variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the affect our reputation, results, financial condition and prospects.
countries in which we operate.
Fluctuations in the exchange rates of those currencies may have a significant impact on Reduction in Chinese demand may negatively our financial results.
The US dollar is the currency in which impact our results the majority of our sales are denominated.
Operating costs The Chinese market has become a significant source of global are influenced by the currencies of those countries where demand for commodities.
In CY2009, China represented our mines and processing plants are located and also by 56 per cent of global seaborne iron ore demand, 36 per cent those currencies in which the costs of imported equipment of copper demand, 35 per cent of nickel demand, 39 per cent of and services are determined.
The Australian dollar, South aluminium demand, 42 per cent of energy coal demand and nine African rand, Chilean peso, Brazilian real and US dollar are per cent of oil demand.
Chinas demand for these commodities the most important currencies influencing our operating has been driving global materials demand over the past decade.
Given the dominant role of the US currency in our affairs, the US dollar is the currency in which we present The strong economic growth and infrastructure development in financial performance.
It is also the natural currency for China of recent years has been tempered by the global financial borrowing and holding surplus cash.
We do not generally crisis.
Sales into China generated US$13.2 billion FY2009: believe that active currency hedging provides long-term US$9.9 billion, or 25.1 per cent FY2009: 19.7 per cent, benefits to our shareholders.
We may consider currency of our revenue in the year ended 30 June 2010.
A slowing protection measures appropriate in specific commercial in Chinas economic growth could result in lower prices and circumstances, subject to strict limits established by our demand for our products and therefore reduce our revenues.
Therefore, in any particular year, currency fluctuations In response to its increased demand for commodities, may have a significant impact on our financial results.
China is increasingly seeking strategic self-sufficiency in key commodities, including investments in existing businesses or new developments in other countries.
These investments may adversely impact future commodity demand and supply balances and prices.
10 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Infrastructure, such as rail, ports, power and water, is critical 1.5 Risk factors continued to our business operations.
We have operations or potential Actions by governments or political events development projects in countries where government provided in the countries in which we operate could infrastructure or regulatory regimes for access to infrastructure, have a negative impact on our business including our own privately operated infrastructure, may be inadequate or uncertain.
These may adversely impact the We have operations in many countries around the globe, efficient operations and expansion of our businesses.
On 30 June some of which have varying degrees of political and commercial 2010, the Australian Competition Tribunal granted declaration stability.
We operate in emerging markets, which may involve of BHP Billitons Goldsworthy rail line, but rejected the application additional risks that could have an adverse impact upon the for declaration of its Newman rail line under Part IIIA of the profitability of an operation.
These risks could include terrorism, Trade Practices Act.
Following the tribunals decision, access civil unrest, nationalisation, renegotiation or nullification of seekers may now negotiate for access to the Goldsworthy existing contracts, leases, permits or other agreements, and railway.
These negotiations, and the availability and terms changes in laws and policy, as well as other unforeseeable of access, would be governed by the Part IIIA statutory risks.
Risks relating to bribery and corruption may be prevalent framework, and either the access seeker or BHP Billiton in some of the countries in which we operate.
If one or more could refer disputed matters to the ACCC for arbitration.
of these risks occurs at one of our major projects, it could have The outcome of this process would govern whether access a negative effect on the operations in those countries, as well would be provided and on what terms.
as the Groups overall operating results and financial condition.
In South Africa, the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Our operations are based on material long-term investments Development Act 2002 MPRDA came into effect on that anticipate long-term fiscal stability.
The law provides for the conversion of existing financial crisis some governments face increased debt and mining rights so called Old Order Rights to rights under funding obligations and may seek additional sources of revenue the new regime New Order Rights subject to certain and economic rent by increasing rates of taxation, royalties undertakings to be made by the company applying for such or resource rent taxes to levels that are globally uncompetitive conversion.
The Mining Charter requires that mining companies to the resource industry.
Such taxes may negatively impact achieve 15 per cent ownership by historically disadvantaged the financial results of existing businesses and reduce the South Africans of South African mining assets by 1 May 2009 anticipated future returns and overall level of prospective and 26 per cent ownership by 1 May 2014.
If we are unable investment in those countries.
to convert our South African mining rights in accordance with On 2 May 2010, the Australian Government proposed a Resource the MPRDA and the Mining Charter, we could lose some of Super Profits Tax at a rate of 40 per cent on profits made from those rights.
Where New Order Rights are obtained under the the extraction of non-renewable resources.
Subsequently, MPRDA, these rights may not be equivalent to the Old Order on 2 July 2010, this proposal was amended to a Minerals Resource Rights in terms of duration, renewal, rights and obligations.
Rent Tax MRRT, at a rate of 30 per cent with a 25 per cent In May 2010, in response to the oil spill from BPs Macondo well, extraction allowance effectively resulted in a 22.5 per cent the United States Government announced a deepwater drilling additional tax on profits for iron ore and coal, while the current moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico.
There is uncertainty as to Petroleum Resource Rent Tax PRRT will be extended to all potential new permitting requirements that may be imposed Australian oil and gas projects, including the North West Shelf.
Our business could be adversely affected Legislation is proposed to be introduced into parliament in late by the moratorium and any new regulatory requirements.
CY2011, and then for the commencement date of the new tax We operate in several countries where ownership of land regime to be 1 July 2012.
The MRRT would operate in parallel is uncertain and where disputes may arise in relation to with State and Territory royalty regimes, and those royalties ownership.
In Australia, the Native Title Act 1993 provides in place or scheduled at 2 May 2010 would be creditable against for the establishment and recognition of native title under the MRRT.
The proposed MRRT would increase the effective certain circumstances.
In South Africa, the Extension of tax rate of Australian coal and iron ore operations and the Security of Tenure Act 1997 and the Restitution of Land North West Shelf project.
This could have a negative effect Rights Act 1994 provide for various landholding rights.
on the operating results of the Groups Australian operations.
Such legislation could negatively affect new or The MRRT is subject to passing by the Australian Parliament existing projects.
and may differ wholly or in part in its final form.
With the objective of raising more funds to face the We may not be able to successfully reconstruction following the recent earthquake in Chile, the integrate our acquired businesses Chilean government announced on 16 April 2010 of an intention We have grown our business in part through acquisitions.
to increase the Corporate Income Tax rate First Category Tax We expect that some of our future growth will stem from FCT as well as changing the Mining Tax in exchange for acquisitions.
There are numerous risks encountered in extending the tax invariability period available to investors, business combinations.
These include adverse regulatory from 2017 currently in place for an extra eight years to 2025. conditions and obligations, commercial objectives not The current draft legislation proposes a temporary increase achieved due to minority interests, unforeseen liabilities of the FCT rate for two years 20102011 with the change arising from the acquired businesses, retention of key in the Mining Tax regime having been removed from the staff, sales revenue and the operational performance not current proposed bill.
Any potential tax changes in the future meeting our expectations, anticipated synergies and cost if implemented may impact our financial results from savings being delayed or not being achieved, uncertainty Chilean operations.
in sales proceeds from planned divestments, and planned Our business could be adversely affected by new government expansion projects are delayed or higher cost more than regulation, such as controls on imports, exports and prices.
These factors could negatively affect our Increasing requirements relating to regulatory, environmental financial condition and results of operations.
and social approvals can potentially result in significant delays in construction and may adversely impact upon the economics of new mining and oil and gas projects, the expansion of existing operations and results of our operations.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | 11 1 Key information continued Increased costs and schedule delays may 1.5 Risk factors continued impact our development projects We may not recover our investments Although we devote significant time and resources to our project in mining and oil and gas projects planning, approval and review process, we may underestimate Our operations may be impacted by changed market or the cost or time required to complete a project.
In addition, industry structures, commodity prices, technical operating we may fail to manage projects as effectively as we anticipate, difficulties, inability to recover our mineral, oil or gas reserves and unforeseen challenges may emerge.
Any of these may and increased operating cost levels.
These may impact the result in increased capital costs and schedule delays at our ability for assets to recover their historical investment and development projects impacting anticipated financial returns.
may require financial write-downs adversely impacting our financial results.
Health, safety, environmental and community exposures and related regulations may impact Our non-controlled assets may not our operations and reputation negatively comply with our standards We are a major producer of carbon-related products such as Some of our assets are controlled and managed by joint energy and metallurgical coal, oil, gas, and liquefied natural venture partners or by other companies.
Our oil and gas operations are both onshore and offshore.
partners may have divergent business objectives which may The nature of the industries in which we operate means impact business and financial results.
Management of our that our activities are highly regulated by health, safety and non-controlled assets may not comply with our management environmental laws.
As regulatory standards and expectations and operating standards, controls and procedures including are constantly developing, we may be exposed to increased health, safety, and environment.
Failure to adopt equivalent litigation, compliance costs and unforeseen environmental standards, controls and procedures at these assets could lead rehabilitation expenses.
to higher costs and reduced production and adversely impact our results and reputation.
Potential health, safety, environmental and community events that may materially impact our operations include Operating cost pressures and shortages could negatively rockfall incidents in underground mining operations, aircraft impact our operating margins and expansion plans incidents, light vehicle incidents, explosions or gas leaks, Increasing cost pressures and shortages in skilled personnel, incidents involving mobile equipment, uncontrolled tailings contractors, materials and supplies that are required as critical breaches, escape of polluting substances, community protests inputs to our existing operations and planned developments or civil unrest.
may occur across the resources industry.
As the prices for our Longer-term health impacts may arise due to unanticipated products are determined by the global commodity markets workplace exposures by employees or site contractors.
These in which we operate we may not have the ability to offset these effects may create future financial compensation obligations.
cost increases resulting in operating margins being reduced.
We provide for operational closure and site rehabilitation.
Notwithstanding our efforts to reduce costs and a number Our operating and closed facilities are required to have of key cost inputs being commodity price-linked, the inability closure plans.
Changes in regulatory or community to reduce costs and a timing lag may impact our operating expectations may result in the relevant plans not being margins for an extended period.
This may impact financial provisioning and Changing industrial relations legislation such as the Australian costs at the affected operations.
Fair Work Act 2009 may impact workforce flexibility, productivity We contribute to the communities in which we operate by and costs.
Labour unions may seek to pursue claims under the new framework.
Industrial action may impact our operations providing skilled employment opportunities, salaries and wages, taxes and royalties and community development resulting in lost production and revenues.
Since the introduction of the Australian Fair Work Act in 2009, increasing occurrences programs.
Notwithstanding these actions, local communities may become dissatisfied with the impact of our operations, of low-level industrial activity have been experienced across many Australian assets.
The additional claims relate to increases potentially affecting costs and production, and in extreme cases viability.
access and coverage as provided by the legislation.
If this activity continues, some negative productivity impacts may result.
Legislation requiring manufacturers, importers and downstream users of chemical substances, including metals and minerals, A number of our operations are energy or water intensive and, to establish that the substances can be used without negatively as a result, the Groups costs and earnings could be adversely affecting health or the environment may impact our operations affected by rising costs or by supply interruptions.
These potential compliance costs, litigation include the unavailability of energy, fuel or water due to a variety expenses, regulatory delays, rehabilitation expenses and of reasons, including fluctuations in climate, significant increases operational costs could negatively affect our financial results.
in costs, inadequate infrastructure capacity, interruptions in supply due to equipment failure or other causes and the We may continue to be exposed to increased operational costs inability to extend supply contracts on economical terms.
due to the costs and lost time associated with the HIV AIDS These factors could lead to increased operating costs and malaria infection rate mainly within our African workforce.
Because we operate globally, we may be affected by potential at existing operations.
pandemic influenza outbreaks, such as A H1N1 and avian flu, in any of the regions in which we operate.
Despite our best efforts and best intentions, there remains a risk that health, safety, environmental and or community incidents or accidents may occur that may negatively impact our reputation or licence to operate.
