Our human resource talent pool may not 1.5 Risk factors continued be adequate to support our growth Unexpected natural and operational catastrophes Our existing operations and especially our pipeline of development may impact our operations projects in regions of numerous large projects, such as Western We operate extractive, processing and logistical operations Australia, when activated, require many highly skilled staff in many geographic locations both onshore and offshore.
with relevant industry and technical experience.
In such a Our operational processes may be subject to operational competitive environment, the inability of the Group and industry accidents such as port and shipping incidents, fire and explosion, to attract and retain such people may adversely impact our pitwall failures, loss of power supply, railroad incidents, loss ability to adequately meet demand in projects.
Skills shortages of well control, environmental pollution and mechanical failures.
in engineering, technical service, construction and maintenance Our operations and geographic locations may also be subject may impact activities.
These shortages may adversely impact to unexpected natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, the cost and schedule of development projects and the cost flood, hurricanes and tsunamis.
Based on our claims, insurance and efficiency of existing operations.
premiums and loss experience, our risk management approach is to maintain self-insurance for property damage and business Breaches in our information technology IT interruption related risk exposures.
Existing business continuity security processes may adversely impact the plans may not provide protection for all of the costs that may conduct of our business activities arise from such events.
The impact of these events could lead We maintain global IT and communication networks and to disruptions in production and loss of facilities more than applications to support our business activities.
IT security offsetting premiums saved and adversely affect our financial processes protecting these systems are in place and subject results and prospects.
Third party claims arising from these to assessment as part of the review of internal control over events may also exceed the limit of liability insurance policies financial reporting.
These processes may not prevent future we have in place.
malicious action or fraud by individuals or groups, resulting in the corruption of operating systems, theft of commercially Climate change and greenhouse effects may sensitive data, misappropriation of funds and disruptions adversely impact our operations and markets to our business operations.
Carbon based energy is a significant input in a number of the Groups mining and processing operations and A breach in our governance processes may lead we have significant sales of carbon based energy products.
to regulatory penalties and loss of reputation A number of governments or governmental bodies have We operate in a global environment straddling multiple jurisdictions and complex regulatory frameworks.
Our governance introduced or are contemplating regulatory change in response to the impacts of climate change.
The December 1997 Kyoto and compliance processes, which include the review of internal control over financial reporting, may not prevent future potential Protocol established a set of greenhouse gas emission targets for developed countries that have ratified the Protocol.
breaches of law, accounting or governance practice.
Our BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct, anti-bribery and corruption, The European Union Emissions Trading System EU ETS, which came into effect on 1 January 2005, has had an impact and anti-trust standards may not prevent instances of fraudulent behaviour and dishonesty nor guarantee compliance with legal on greenhouse gas and energy-intensive businesses based in the EU.
Our Petroleum assets in the UK are currently subject or regulatory requirements.
This may lead to regulatory fines, litigation, loss of operating licences or loss of reputation.
to the EU ETS, as are our EU based customers.
Elsewhere, there is current and emerging climate change regulation that will affect energy prices, demand and margins for carbon intensive 1.6 Forward looking statements products.
The Australian Governments plan of action on climate change includes the introduction of a national emissions trading This Annual Report contains forward looking statements, scheme by 2013 and a mandatory renewable energy target including statements regarding: of 20 per cent by the year 2020.
From a medium to long-term estimated reserves perspective, we are likely to see some changes in the cost position geXaWf a Vb``bW gl ce VXf of our  assets and energy-intensive WX`TaW Ybe Vb``bW g Xf assets as a result of regulatory impacts in the countries in which c Taf fgeTgXZ Xf TaW bU]XVg iXf bY `TaTZX`Xag we operate.
These regulatory mechanisms may impact our V bfheX be W iXfg`Xag bY VXegT a bcXeTg baf be YTV g Xf operations directly or indirectly via our suppliers and customers.
including associated costs Inconsistency of regulations particularly between developed and developing countries may also change the competitive position Tag V cTgXW cebWhVg ba be VbafgehVg ba Vb``XaVX`Xag WTgXf of some of our assets.
Assessments of the potential impact of XkcXVgXW Vbfgf be cebWhVg ba bhgchg future climate change regulation are uncertain given the wide Tag V cTgXW cebWhVg iX iXf bY ceb]XVgf ` aXf TaW YTV g Xf scope of potential regulatory change in the many countries cebi f baf TaW Vbag aZXag TU g Xf!
The physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain and will be particular to the geographic circumstances.
These may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, rising sea levels, increased storm intensities and higher average temperature levels.
These effects may adversely impact the productivity and financial performance of our operations.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | 13 1 Key information continued 1.6 Forward looking statements continued Forward looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as intend, aim, project, anticipate, estimate, plan, believe, expect, may, should, will, continue or similar words.
These statements discuss future expectations concerning the results of operations or financial condition, or provide other forward looking statements.
These forward looking statements are not guarantees or predictions of future performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, and which may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements contained in this Annual Report.
Readers are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward looking statements.
For example, our future revenues from our operations, projects or mines described in this Annual Report will be based, in part, upon the market price of the minerals, metals or petroleum produced, which may vary significantly from current levels.
These variations, if materially adverse, may affect the timing or the feasibility of the development of a particular project, the expansion of certain facilities or mines, or the continuation of existing operations.
Other factors that may affect the actual construction or production commencement dates, costs or production output and anticipated lives of operations, mines or facilities include our ability to profitably produce and transport the minerals, petroleum and or metals extracted to applicable markets: the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on the market prices of the minerals, petroleum or metals we produce: activities of government authorities in some of the countries where we are exploring or developing these projects, facilities or mines, including increases in taxes, changes in environmental and other regulations and political uncertainty: and other factors identified in the description of the risk factors above.
We cannot assure you that our estimated economically recoverable reserve figures, closure or divestment of such operations or facilities, including associated costs, actual production or commencement dates, cost or production output or anticipated lives of the projects, mines and facilities discussed in this Annual Report, will not differ materially from the statements contained in this Annual Report.
Except as required by applicable regulations or by law, the Group does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or review any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information or future events.
