2.13.14 Documents on display revision, either upward or downward, based on new information, such as from development drilling and production activities You can consult reports and other information about or from changes in economic factors, including product prices, BHP Billiton Limited that it has filed pursuant to the rules of contract terms or development plans.
You can consult reports and other information filed for publication by BHP Billiton Plc pursuant to The Petroleum Reserves Group PRG, organised separately the rules of the UK Listing Authority at the Authoritys document from the operating organisation, provides overall oversight viewing facility.
Information filed on the ASX, or pursuant to the of the reserves assessment and reporting processes.
The PRG rules of the UK Listing Authority is not incorporated by reference is staffed by individuals averaging over 30 years experience in into this Annual Report.
The documents referred to in this Annual the Oil and Gas industry.
The Manager of the Petroleum Reserves Report as being available on our website, www.
com, Group is the individual primarily responsible for overseeing are not incorporated by reference and do not form part of this the preparation of the reserves estimate.
He has an advanced Annual Report.
degree in engineering and over 30 years of diversified industry experience in reservoir engineering, reserves assessment, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc both file annual and and technical management.
He is a 30 year member of special reports and other information with the SEC.
You may the Society of Petroleum Engineers SPE.
No part of the read and copy any document that either BHP Billiton Limited individual compensation for members of this group or BHP Billiton Plc files at the SECs public reference room is dependent on reported reserves.
located at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1,580, Washington, DC 20549.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or access the SEC website Reserve assessments are conducted by technical staff within the at www.
gov for further information on the public reference operating organisation.
These individuals meet the professional room.
The SEC filings of BHP Billiton Limited since November qualifications outlined by the Society of Petroleum Engineers, 2002, and those of BHP Billiton Plc since April 2003, are also are trained in the fundamentals of SEC reserves reporting and available on the SEC website.
the corporate reserves processes, and are endorsed by the PRG.
Each reserve assessment is reviewed annually by the PRG to ensure technical quality, adherence to internally published 2.14 Reserves and resources Petroleum CSG Guidelines, and compliance with SEC reporting requirements.
Once endorsed by the PRG, all reserves receive 2.14.1 Petroleum reserves final endorsement by senior management and the Risk and Audit Reserves and production Committee prior to public reporting.
Our internal Group Audit BHP Billiton Petroleum reserves are estimated and reported Services provides secondary assurance of the oil and gas reserve according to SEC standards.
For FY2010, our proved oil and reporting processes through annual audits.
gas reserves have been determined in accordance with recent During FY2010, Petroleum added 172 million barrel oil equivalent revisions to SEC Rule 4-10 a of Regulation S-X.
Proved oil 1 boe of proved oil and gas reserves, replacing 108 per cent of and gas reserves are those quantities of crude oil, natural production of 159 million barrel oil equivalent.
These additions gas and natural gas liquids NGL, which, by analysis of were primarily revisions of 84 million boe due to infill drilling geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with results and analysis of performance in producing properties, reasonable certainty to be economically producible, from and extensions of 65 million boe.
The largest of these extensions a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under occurred in the Mad Dog field and was supported by the existing economic conditions, operating methods and integration of wireline log and pressure data, core information government regulations.
Unless evidence indicates that renewal and high resolution seismic interpretation, as well as data from is reasonably certain, estimates of economically producible other portions of the field and relevant analogous fields.
reserves only reflect the period before the contracts providing the right to operate expire.
The project to extract the These changes are summarised on a barrel oil equivalent basis hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must in the table below.
These tables detail estimated oil, condensate, be reasonably certain that it will commence within a reasonable NGL and natural gas reserves at 30 June 2010, 30 June 2009 time.
Developed oil and gas reserves are reserves that can and 30 June 2008, with a reconciliation of the changes in each be expected to be recovered through existing wells with year.
Reserves have been calculated using the economic interest existing equipment and operating methods and through method and represent net interest volumes after deduction installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational of applicable royalty, fuel and flare volumes.
Reserves include at the time of the reserve estimate if the extraction is by means quantities of oil, condensate, NGL and gas that will be produced not involving a well.
As specified in the revised regulation, under several production and risk sharing arrangements that oil and gas prices are taken as the unweighted average involve the BHP Billiton Group in upstream risks and rewards of the corresponding first day of the month prices for the without transfer of ownership of the products.
At 30 June 2010, twelve months prior to the ending date of the period covered.
approximately six per cent 2009: seven per cent: 2008: six per cent of proved developed and undeveloped oil, condensate Estimates of oil and gas reserves are inherently imprecise, and NGL reserves and five per cent 2009: five per cent: 2008: require the application of judgement and are subject to five per cent of natural gas reserves are attributable to those future revision.
Accordingly, financial and accounting arrangements.
Reserves also include volumes calculated by measures such as the standardised measure of discounted probabilistic aggregation of certain fields that share common cash flows, depreciation, depletion and amortisation charges, infrastructure.
These aggregation procedures result in the assessment of impairments and the assessment of enterprise-wide proved reserves volumes which may not valuation allowances against deferred tax assets that be realised upon divestment on an individual property basis.
are based on reserve estimates are also subject to change.
1 Total barrel oil equivalent conversion is based on the following: Proved reserves are estimated by reference to available 6,000 scf of natural gas equals 1 barrel oil equivalent.
seismic, well and reservoir information, including production and pressure trends for producing reservoirs and, in some cases, to similar data from other analogous, producing reservoirs.
Proved reserves estimates are attributed to future development projects only where there is a significant commitment to project funding and execution, and for which applicable governmental and regulatory approvals have been secured or are reasonably certain to be secured.
Furthermore, estimates of proved reserves only include volumes for which access to market is assured with reasonable certainty.
All proved reserve estimates are subject to BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | 65
