2 Membership continued The Nomination Committee assists the Board in ensuring that the Board is comprised of high-calibre individuals whose The Board considers that there is an appropriate balance background, skills, experience and personal characteristics between executive and non-executive Directors, with a view will augment the present Board and meet its future needs.
to promoting shareholder interests and governing the business effectively.
While the Board includes a smaller number of Diversity on the Board executive Directors than is common for UK listed companies, Corporate governance reviews have highlighted that there its composition is appropriate for the Dual Listed Company is a continuing lack of diversity amongst experienced Director structure and is in line with Australian listed company practice.
candidates in Australia, the UK and the US.
The Board is reviewing In addition, the Board has extensive access to members of senior its current practices, including assessing how the Board and the management.
Members of the Group Management Committee Nomination Committee presently take into account diversity the most senior executives in the Group attend all the regularly criteria, including geographic location, race and gender, as part scheduled Board meetings, by invitation, where they make of a Director candidates general background and experience.
presentations and engage in discussions with Directors, answer This review will include an assessment of the Board Committees questions, and provide input and perspective on their areas Terms of Reference to consider whether amendments are of responsibility.
The Board also deliberates in the absence required to formalise diversity considerations.
Further information of management for part of each meeting which is chaired in relation to how diversity is being addressed within the broader by the Group Chairman.
Group is contained in section 5.8.
The Directors of the Group are: Group and industry knowledge Mr Jacques Nasser Chairman Mr David Crawford Mr Marius Kloppers Ms Carolyn Hewson In order to govern the Group effectively, non-executive Directors must have a clear understanding of the Groups Mr Alan Boeckmann Mr Wayne Murdy overall strategy, together with knowledge about the Group Mr Malcolm Broomhead Mr Keith Rumble and the industries in which it operates.
Non-executive Directors Dr John Buchanan Dr John Schubert must be sufficiently familiar with the Groups core business to Mr Carlos Cordeiro be effective contributors to the development of strategy and to monitor performance.
The biographical details of the Directors are set out in section 4.1 of this Annual Report.
Structured opportunities are provided to build Director knowledge through initiatives such as periodic visits to 5.3.
3 Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes BHP Billiton sites.
Non-executive Directors also build of Directors their Group and industry knowledge through the involvement of the Group Management Committee GMC and other senior The Board considers that a diverse range of skills, backgrounds, employees in Board meetings and specific business briefings.
knowledge and experience is required in order to effectively In addition, while the Business Group Risk and Audit Committees govern the business.
The Board and its Committees actively Business Group RACs are management committees, and work to ensure that the executive and non-executive Directors therefore do not entail any delegation of responsibility from the continue to have the right balance of skills, experience, Boards RAC, the Board believes that the link back to the Board independence and Group knowledge necessary to discharge RAC facilitates a deeper understanding of risk management and their responsibilities in accordance with the highest standards assurance issues throughout the Group.
on the Business Group RACs is at section 5.5.
1 and further The non-executive Directors contribute international and information on induction and training is at section 5.3.
8. operational experience: understanding of the sectors in which we operate: knowledge of world capital markets: and an Director skills and experience understanding of the health, safety, environmental and The Board believes that a mix of skills and a breadth of community challenges that we face.
The executive Director experience is important to ensure that the Board and its brings additional perspectives to the Boards work through Committees function cohesively as a whole and effectively a deep understanding of the Groups business.
The Nomination Committee has a formal works together as a whole to oversee strategy for the Group process by which it assesses the overall skills and experience and monitor pursuit of the corporate objective.
required on the Board and works with the Board to ensure that Directors must demonstrate unquestioned honesty and it has the appropriate mix of skills and experience to meet the integrity, preparedness to question, challenge and critique, future needs of the business.
Further information on the and a willingness to understand and commit to the highest Nomination Committees process is at 5.5.
Each Director must ensure that In addition, Directors have an individual development plan to no decision or action is taken that places his or her interests provide a personalised approach to updating industry knowledge in front of the interests of the business.
in particular discussed further in sections 5.3.
It is made clear in the Terms of Appointment that Directors must The following table sets out some of the key skills of the be prepared to commit sufficient time and resources to perform Directors and the extent to which they are represented on the role effectively.
7 provides further information the Board and its Committees.
In addition to the skills and on the Director Terms of Appointment.
The Nomination experience indicators set out in the table, the Board Governance Committee takes account of the other positions held by each Document provides that each Director must have the following potential Director candidate and assesses whether they will skills, attributes and experience: unquestioned honesty have adequate time to devote to the Board prior to making and integrity: a proven track record of creating value for a recommendation to the Board on whether to appoint them shareholders: time available to undertake the responsibilities: as a Director.
an ability to apply strategic thought to matters in issue: Directors commit to the collective decision-making processes a preparedness to question, challenge and critique: and of the Board.
Individual Directors debate issues openly and a willingness to understand and commit to the highest constructively and are free to question or challenge the levels of governance.
The Board considers that each opinions of others.
Directors also commit to active involvement Director has the skills, attributes and experience required in Board decisions, the application of strategic thought to by the Board Governance Document.
matters in issue and are prepared to question, challenge and critique.
Directors are clear communicators and good listeners who actively contribute to the Board in a collegial manner.
3 Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of Directors continued Risk and Skills and experience Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Sustainability Managing and leading Sustainable success in business at a very senior level in 10 Directors 2 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors a successful career.
Global experience Senior management or equivalent experience in multiple global 11 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors locations, exposed to a range of political, cultural, regulatory and business environments.
Governance Commitment to the highest standards of governance, including 11 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors experience with a major organisation, which is subject to rigorous governance standards and an ability to assess the effectiveness of senior management.
Strategy Track record of developing and implementing a successful strategy, 11 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors including appropriately probing and challenging management on the delivery of agreed strategic planning objectives.
Financial acumen Senior executive or equivalent experience in financial accounting 11 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors and reporting, corporate finance and internal financial controls, including an ability to probe the adequacies of financial and risk controls.
Capital projects Experience working in an industry with projects involving 9 Directors 2 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors large-scale capital outlays and long-term investment horizons.
Health, safety and environment Experience related to workplace health, safety, environment 10 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors and social responsibility with a major corporation.
Remuneration Board remuneration committee membership or management 11 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors experience in relation to remuneration, including incentive programs and pensions superannuation and the legislation and contractual framework governing remuneration.
Mining Senior executive experience in a large mining organisation 5 Directors 1 Director 0 Directors 1 Director 2 Directors combined with an understanding of the Groups corporate objective to create long-term value for shareholders through the discovery, development and conversion of natural resources.
Oil and gas Senior executive experience in the oil and gas industry, including 5 Directors 1 Director 2 Directors 3 Directors 1 Director in-depth knowledge of the Groups strategy, markets, competitors, operational issues, technology and regulatory concerns.
Marketing Senior executive experience in marketing and a detailed 9 Directors 1 Director 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors understanding of the Groups corporate objective to create long-term value for shareholders through the provision of innovative customer and market-focused solutions.
Public policy Experience in public and regulatory policy, including how 10 Directors 2 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors it affects corporations.
Total directors 11 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors Director qualifications Non-executive Director locations Business Finance, 5 Directors US, 3 Directors Engineering and Science, 2 Directors Australia, 4 Directors Science, 2 Directors UK, 1 Director Engineering, 2 Directors South Africa, 1 Director Hong Kong, 1 Director BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | 133
