2 Total remuneration: statutory disclosures discounted to reflect the dividends that will not be received until exercise of the awards.
Deferred Shares and Options are The table overleaf has been prepared in accordance with the equity-settled share-based payments.
The actual Deferred requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Shares and Options will be awarded to participants following Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports the 2010 Annual General Meetings subject to shareholder Regulations 2008 made thereunder and the Australian approval for the CEO.
Once awarded, the only vesting Corporations Act 2001 and relevant accounting standards.
condition is for participants to remain in employment for two Explanation of share-based payment terms used in the table further years.
Accordingly, the number of securities if any that will ultimately vest cannot be determined until the service Value of accrued Dividend Equivalent Payment: Participants period has been completed.
The estimated fair value of the who are provided with awards under the GIS and the LTIP are Deferred Shares and Options forms part of the STI at risk entitled to a payment upon exercise in lieu of the dividends remuneration appearing throughout this Remuneration Report.
that would have been payable on ordinary BHP Billiton shares The fair value of Deferred Shares and Options is apportioned over the period from the allocation date to the time they exercise to annual remuneration based on the expected future service their awards.
This is called the Dividend Equivalent Payment.
period, which is normally three years.
The vesting of No Dividend Equivalent Payment is payable in respect of awards Deferred Shares and Options may be accelerated in the that are not exercised whether because they do not vest, or for event of leaving the Group, in which case the expected any other reason.
More information on the Dividend Equivalent future service period is amended: Payment and on awards under the GIS and LTIP is provided in sections 6.3.
5. g[X Xfg `TgXW YT e iT hX bY e Z[gf gb @TgV[ aZ F[TeXf TVdh eXW during each share purchase period under the Shareplus The Dividend Equivalent Payment is treated as a cash-settled program, as described in section 6.3.
These rights are share-based payment, and the value is therefore included in acquired on each of the quarterly share-purchase dates under remuneration over the financial periods prior to awards being the program grant dates, and the fair value is apportioned exercised.
The value included in each period will depend on the to annual remuneration based on the future service period number of awards unexercised including those still unvested, required for the Matching Shares to be allocated i. e. the BHP Billitons declared dividends, and, in the case of LTIP vesting date of the rights.
Where entitlements to the awards, on the estimated probability of the TSR performance Matching Shares are accelerated on leaving the Group, hurdles being met as described in section 6.3.
The latter the expected future service period is amended.
factor may vary considerably from one reporting period to the next depending on BHP Billitons relative TSR performance, Value of LTI awards: Performance Shares allocated under the and this may significantly impact the remuneration value LTIP as described in section 6.3.
5 are defined as equity-settled ascribed to the Dividend Equivalent Payment from year to share-based payments.
The amount included in this column year.
The payment of the Dividend Equivalent Payment will in respect of each LTI award is the estimated fair value of the never eventuate in the case of equity that fails to vest and Performance Shares as determined by Kepler Associates using be exercised for any reason.
a Monte Carlo simulation methodology taking account of the performance hurdle, the term of the award, the share price at Value of STI and Shareplus awards: The amounts shown grant date, the expected price volatility of the underlying share, in the table include: and the risk-free interest rate for the term of the award.
The fair g [X Xfg `TgXW YT e iT hX bY 7XYXeeXW F[TeXf TaW Bcg baf value of each award is apportioned to annual remuneration provided under the GIS as described in section 6.3.
4, in equal amounts to each of the years in the expected future subsequent to meeting KPIs.
The fair value of the Deferred service period, which is normally five years.
Where entitlements Shares and Options is estimated at grant date by discounting to Performance Shares are preserved on leaving the Group, the total value of the shares that will be issued in the future the expected future service period is amended.
using the risk-free interest rate for the period to the date of award.
The value of the Deferred Shares and Options is also BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | 165 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.4.
2 Total remuneration: statutory disclosures continued The figures provided in the shaded columns of the statutory table below for share-based payments were not actually provided to the KMP during FY2010.
These amounts are calculated in accordance with accounting standards and are the amortised accounting fair values of equity and equity-related instruments that have been granted to the executives, either in relation to FY2010 performance, or that of prior financial years.
Please refer to sections 6.3 and 6.4.
3 for information on awards allocated during FY2010.
Amounts shown in this table reflect the amounts paid over the 12-month period from 1 July to 30 June each year.
Until 1 September 2009, base salary for Andrew Mackenzie, Alex Vanselow and Karen Wood was expressed in a currency other than US dollars, and has been converted for the purposes of this table at the average exchange rate over the relevant period.
From 1 September 2009, all GMC base salaries are expressed in US dollars.
More detail is provided in section 6.3.
2 Annual cash bonus is the cash portion of STI reward earned in respect of performance during each financial year as described in section 6.3.
4 shows the STI reward earned as a percentage of the maximum award, where the maximum possible award is 100 per cent.
The remaining portion of the 100 per cent maximum has not been earned i. e. it has been forfeited.
Actual payments are made in September, once performance has been assessed, e. g. in September 2010 for FY2010 awards.
The equity portion of STI rewards are described in Note 6 below.
3 Non-monetary benefits are non-pensionable and include such items as medical and other insurances, and fees for professional services such as for tax advice.
4 Other benefits are non-pensionable and include: 4 eX bVTg ba T bjTaVX bY HF $ ### Ybe 4 UXegb 6T WXeba a 9L%#$# a eX Tg ba gb T V[TaZX a [ f c TVX bY X`c bl`Xag Yeb` ?baWba gb @X UbheaX!
4 cTl`Xag bY $ ### ### HF $, '## gb 4aWeXj @TV Xam X a 9L%##, ba Vb``XaVX`Xag bY X`c bl`Xag Tf Vb`cXafTg ba Ybe cTeg bY g[X iT hX YbeZbaX of his awards under plans operated by his previous employer in addition to share-based payments described in Note 7 below.
CTl`Xag bY HF '' $ ' a Xh Ybe XTiX TVVehXW Uhg abg gT Xa Ul @ V[TX LXTZXe a 9L%##, Tf :ebhc cb Vl WbXf abg T bj :@6 `X`UXef gb eb YbejTeW annual leave entitlements from one financial year to the next.
5 Retirement benefits are calculated as a percentage of base salary for each GMC member, as set out in the table in section 6.3.
6 Please refer to the previous page for an explanation of this column.
These share-based payments may also be forfeited after allocation in specific circumstances as described in section 6.3.
4 and therefore, the minimum possible value of the awards is nil.
The maximum possible value cannot be determined as it depends on future share price movements, but is estimated by the fair value used for accounting purposes in this table.
At the date of this Annual Report, GMC members had not made their elections for Deferred Shares and or Options in regard to FY2010 STI rewards.
In respect of FY2009 awards, Andrew Mackenzie elected to receive Options.
The percentage of his remuneration in 2010 that was represented by these Options was 0.6 per cent.
The actual number of Deferred Shares and Options allocated in respect of FY2009 awards is shown in section 6.4.
3 describes the Shareplus program and the contributions made during FY2010 by members of the GMC in relation to the rights to acquire Matching Shares, which are included as share-based remuneration in the table.
7 Please refer to the previous page for an explanation of this column.
5 shows the LTI provided as a percentage of the maximum award, where the maximum possible award is 100 per cent.
5 and therefore, the minimum possible value of the awards is nil.
Details of individual awards are set out in the tables in section 6.4.
This column also includes the amount allocated to remuneration for each year in respect of awards received by Andrew Mackenzie on commencement of employment with BHP Billiton in addition to the cash payment shown in Note 4 above.
These awards are in the form of Performance Shares allocated on 4 December 2008 as shown in the first table in section 6.4.
3, and conditional rights to receive cash sums under two phantom awards which are treated as cash-settled share-based payments and are included in this column for the purposes of remuneration.
The awards were approved by the Remuneration Committee for the purposes of compensating Mr Mackenzie for awards forgone by him as a result of leaving his former employer.
The value and nature of the awards were determined by the committee as being an equivalent fair value as that forgone by Mr Mackenzie under the at risk remuneration arrangements operated by his former employer.
In valuing the awards, the committee sought the advice of its independent adviser, Kepler Associates.
Full details of the awards were disclosed in last years Annual Report.
8 Alberto Calderon and Alex Vanselow are also reimbursed for certain living costs incurred while on international assignment.
9 FY2009 remuneration for Andrew Mackenzie reflects the period 15 November 2008 to 30 June 2009.
