Notes to Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Production stripping commences at the time that saleable materials tax base is solely derived from the amount deductible under capital begin to be extracted from the mine and normally continues gains tax legislation, deferred tax is determined as if such amounts throughout the life of a mine.
The costs of production stripping are are deductible in determining future assessable income.
charged to the income statement as operating costs when the ratio A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is of waste material to ore extracted for an area of interest is expected probable that future taxable profits will be available against which to be constant throughout its estimated life.
When the ratio of the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each waste to ore is not expected to be constant, production stripping balance sheet date and amended to the extent that it is no longer costs are accounted for as follows: probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax 4 Vbfgf TeX a g T l V[TeZXW gb g[X aVb`X fgTgX`Xag TaW assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes classified as operating costs.
levied by the same taxation authority and the Group has both the J[Xa g[X VheeXag eTg b bY jTfgX gb beX f ZeXTgXe g[Ta g[X right and the intention to settle its current tax assets and liabilities estimated life-of-mine ratio, a portion of the stripping costs on a net or simultaneous basis.
inclusive of an allocation of relevant overhead expenditure Royalties and resource rent taxes are treated as taxation is capitalised to other mineral assets.
arrangements when they have the characteristics of a tax.
This is a fhUfXdhXag lXTef j[Xa g[X eTg b bY jTfgX gb beX f Xff g[Ta considered to be the case when they are imposed under government the estimated life-of-mine ratio, a portion of capitalised stripping authority and the amount payable is calculated by reference to costs is charged to the income statement as operating costs.
revenue derived net of any allowable deductions after adjustment for items comprising temporary differences.
For such arrangements, The amount of production stripping costs capitalised or charged current and deferred tax is provided on the same basis as described in a financial year is determined so that the stripping expense for above for other forms of taxation.
Obligations arising from royalty the financial year reflects the estimated life-of-mine ratio.
Changes arrangements that do not satisfy these criteria are recognised to the estimated life-of-mine ratio are accounted for prospectively as current provisions and included in expenses.
from the date of the change.
Provision for employee benefits Inventories Provision is made in the financial statements for all employee Inventories, including work in progress, are valued at the lower benefits, including on-costs.
In relation to industry-based long of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined primarily on service leave funds, the Groups liability, including obligations the basis of average costs.
For processed inventories, cost is derived for funding shortfalls, is determined after deducting the fair value on an absorption costing basis.
Cost comprises cost of purchasing of dedicated assets of such funds.
raw materials and cost of production, including attributable mining and manufacturing overheads.
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-monetary benefits, annual leave and accumulating sick leave obliged to be settled Finance costs within 12 months of the reporting date, are recognised in sundry Finance costs are generally expensed as incurred except where they creditors or provision for employee benefits in respect of employees relate to the financing of construction or development of qualifying services up to the reporting date and are measured at the amounts assets requiring a substantial period of time to prepare for their expected to be paid when the liabilities are settled.
Liabilities for intended future use.
non-accumulating sick leave are recognised when the leave is taken and measured at the rates paid or payable.
Finance costs are capitalised up to the date when the asset is ready for its intended use.
The amount of finance costs capitalised before The liability for long service leave for which settlement within the effects of income tax for the period is determined by applying 12 months of the reporting date cannot be deferred is recognised the interest rate applicable to appropriate borrowings outstanding in the current provision for employee benefits and is measured during the period to the average amount of capitalised expenditure in accordance with annual leave described above.
The liability for the qualifying assets during the period.
for long service leave for which settlement can be deferred beyond 12 months from the reporting date is recognised in the non-current Taxation provision for employee benefits and measured as the present value of expected future payments to be made in respect of services Taxation on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and provided by employees up to the reporting date.
Taxation is recognised in the income statement except is given to expected future wage and salary levels, experience to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, of employee departures and periods of service.
Expected future in which case the tax is recognised in equity.
payments are discounted using market yields at the reporting Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income date on national government bonds with terms to maturity and for the year using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the currency that match, as closely as possible, the estimated future year end, and includes any adjustment to tax payable in respect cash outflows.
Superannuation, pensions and other post-retirement benefits Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for the tax effect of temporary differences between The Group operates or participates in a number of pension including the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting superannuation schemes throughout the world.
The funding of the purposes and the amounts used for tax assessment or deduction schemes complies with local regulations.
The assets of the schemes purposes.
Where an asset has no deductible or depreciable amount are generally held separately from those of the Group and are for income tax purposes, but has a deductible amount on sale administered by trustees or management boards.
or abandonment for capital gains tax purposes, that amount is For defined contribution schemes or schemes operated on an included in the determination of temporary differences.
The tax industry-wide basis where it is not possible to identify assets effect of certain temporary differences is not recognised, principally attributable to the participation by the Groups employees, the with respect to goodwill: temporary differences arising on the pension charge is calculated on the basis of contributions payable.
initial recognition of assets or liabilities other than those arising in a business combination or in a manner that initially impacted For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing pensions is accounting or taxable profit : and temporary differences relating charged to the income statement so as to recognise current and to investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and past service costs, interest cost on defined benefit obligations, associates to the extent that the Group is able to control the and the effect of any curtailments or settlements, net of expected reversal of the temporary difference and the temporary difference returns on plan assets.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised is not expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount directly in equity.
An asset or liability is consequently recognised of deferred tax recognised is based on the expected manner and in the balance sheet based on the present value of defined benefit timing of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets obligations, less any unrecognised past service costs and the fair and liabilities, with the exception of items that have a tax base solely value of plan assets, except that any such asset cannot exceed the derived under capital gains tax legislation, using tax rates enacted total of unrecognised past service costs and the present value of or substantively enacted at period end.
To the extent that an items refunds from and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
