2 Information on the Company continued For the duration of FY2010, our nickel business comprised Development projects two sets of production assets: Potash Nickel West We continued advancing the Jansen Project, a greenfield potash project near Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada which is being Nickel West is the name for our wholly owned Western designed to produce approximately eight million tonnes per Australian nickel assets, which consist of an integrated system annum of saleable potash.
The Project is nearing the end of its of mines, concentrators, a smelter and a refinery.
We mine pre-feasibility study and is anticipated to progress to feasibility nickel-bearing sulphide ore at our Mt Keith, Leinster and Cliffs in the first half of FY2011.
Based on the current schedule and operations north of Kalgoorlie, Western Australia.
We operate subject to investment approval, the project is expected to concentrator plants at Mt Keith and at Leinster, which also produce saleable potash from CY2015.
We have also allotted concentrates ore from Cliffs.
Leinster and Mt Keith have pre-commitment funding of US$240 million to support the reserve lives of eight and 14 years respectively at current rates development of the first stages of the Jansen Potash Project.
of production, and both have options for further expansion.
This pre-approval expenditure will facilitate the early stage Cliffs is a high-grade underground mine with an expected work for the establishment of the production and service shafts.
reserve life of three years.
The extraction of ore at Cliffs commenced in FY2008.
Jansen is the most advanced of our multiple development options in potash, with nearby Young and Boulder projects We also operate the Kambalda concentrator south of Kalgoorlie, both in the concept study phase.
We continued exploration where ore is sourced through tolling and concentrate purchase activities in Saskatchewan, Canada.
The Burr project, acquired arrangements with third parties in the Kambalda region.
with Athabasca Potash on 23 March 2010, is currently under In addition, we have a regular purchase agreement in place review in the context of our full potash development portfolio.
for the direct purchase of concentrate, which we dry and blend Exploration in the Melville area, also acquired with Athabasca with other concentrate processed at Kambalda.
We transport concentrate from Leinster, Mt Keith and Kambalda to our Kalgoorlie smelter, which processes it into nickel matte, Diamonds containing approximately 66 per cent nickel.
In FY2010, We are working on pre-feasibility and concept studies for we exported approximately 43 per cent of our nickel matte developments at EKATI.
Because of the nature of the kimberlite production.
We processed the remaining nickel matte at pipes in which diamonds are found, individual pipes are relatively our Kwinana nickel refinery, which produces nickel metal short-lived, so we are continually working on options to bring in the form of LME grade briquettes and nickel powder, new pipes on-stream.
together with a range of saleable by-products.
6 Stainless Steel Materials Customer Sector Group During FY2010, production of nickel metal from the Kwinana nickel refinery was impacted by a restriction in hydrogen supply, Our Stainless Steel Materials business is primarily a supplier resulting in the redirection of matte feed stocks for external of nickel to the stainless steel industry.
Nickel is an important sale.
A new hydrogen plant is under construction at the Kwinana component of the most commonly used types of stainless steel.
nickel refinery and construction is expected to be completed In addition, we supply nickel to other markets, including the in the second quarter of FY2012.
specialty alloy, foundry, chemicals, and refractory material industries.
We are the worlds fourth-largest producer of nickel Cerro Matoso and we sell our nickel products under a mix of long-term, Cerro Matoso, our 99.94 per cent owned nickel operation in medium-term and spot volume contracts, with prices linked Colombia, combines a lateritic nickel ore deposit with a low-cost to the London Metal Exchange LME nickel price.
Cerro Matoso is the worlds second-largest producer of ferronickel and one of the lowest-cost producers of ferronickel.
The smelter produces high-purity, low-carbon ferronickel granules.
Cerro Matoso has an estimated current reserve life of 39 years, based on current production levels.
Significant changes to the Stainless Steel Materials business During FY2010 Stainless Steel Materials made two significant business divestments.
In July 2009 we completed the sale of the Yabulu nickel refinery.
In February 2010 we completed the sale of the Ravensthorpe nickel operation following the suspension of production activities in January 2009.
36 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Information on Stainless Steel Materials mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
2 and reserve tables see section 2.14.2.
Name, location, mineralisation Ownership, operation style, type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source NICKEL Concentration plant with Mt Keith We own and operate the mine The Mt Keith mine was officially at Mt Keith.
commissioned in January 1995 a capacity of 11.5 mtpa of ore. 460 km north of Kalgoorlie, by WMC.
Western Australia, Australia We hold leases over the land Power at Mt Keith nickel from the Western Australian In June 2005, we gained control operations is primarily derived Disseminated textured Government.
The key leases of Nickel West Leinster, Mt Keith from on-site third party gas-fired magmatic nickel-sulphide have expiry dates between and Cliffs as part of the turbines.
Gas for these turbines is mineralisation, associated with 2011 and 2029. acquisition of WMC.
sourced by us from the North West metamorphosed ultramafic lava Shelf gas fields.
The existing gas flows and intrusions Further renewals are at the supply contract expires in 2013. governments discretion.
Open-cut mine The gas is transported through the The mine is accessible Goldfields Gas Pipeline, pursuant by private road.
to an agreement with Southern Nickel concentrate is transported Cross Pipeline Australia that by road to Leinster nickel expires in 2037. operations from where it is dried and transported by public road and rail to the Kalgoorlie nickel smelter.
Leinster We own and operate the mines Production commenced in 1967.
Concentration plant with at Leinster.
a capacity of 3 mtpa of ore. 375 km north of Kalgoorlie in In June 2005, we gained control Western Australia, Australia We hold leases over the land of Nickel West Leinster, Mt Keith Power at Leinster nickel from the Western Australian and Cliffs as part of the operations is primarily derived Steeply dipping disseminated and Government.
The key leases acquisition of WMC.
from on-site third party gas-fired massive textured nickel-sulphide have expiry dates between turbines.
Gas for these turbines is mineralisation, associated with 2019 and 2030. sourced by us from the North West metamorphosed ultramafic lava Shelf gas fields.
Underground and open-cut mines The gas is transported through the The mine is accessible by Goldfields Gas Pipeline, pursuant government-owned road and rail.
to an agreement with Southern Nickel concentrate is shipped Cross Pipeline Australia that by road and rail to the Kalgoorlie expires in 2037. nickel smelter.
Cliffs We own and operate the mine Production commenced in 2008.
Power at our Cliffs mining at Cliffs.
operations is primarily derived In June 2005, we gained control 430 km north of Kalgoorlie in from Mt Keiths on-site third party Western Australia, Australia We hold leases over the land of Nickel West Leinster, Mt Keith gas-fired turbines.
Gas for these from the Western Australian and Cliffs as part of the Steeply dipping massive textured turbines is sourced by us from Government.
The key leases have acquisition of WMC.
nickel-sulphide mineralisation, the North West Shelf gas fields.
expiry dates between 2025 and associated with metamorphosed The existing gas supply contract 2026.
Further renewals are at ultramafic lava flows expires in 2013. the governments discretion.
Underground mine The gas is transported through the The mine is accessible Goldfields Gas Pipeline, pursuant by private road.
to an agreement with Southern Nickel ore is transported by road Cross Pipeline Australia that to the Leinster nickel operations expires in 2037. for further processing.
Cerro Matoso We own 99.94% of CMSA, and Mining commenced in 1980 The ferronickel smelter and 0.06% is held by employees.
and nickel production started refinery are integrated with Montelibano, Crdoba, Colombia in 1982 under Colombian the mine.
Existing mining concessions are Nickel-laterite mineralisation Government, BHP Billiton and renewable in 2012 with a 30-year Beneficiation plant for the mine formed from residual weathering Hanna Mining ownership.
extension period until 2042. consists of a primary and of ophiolitic peridotite Further extension is possible In 1989, we increased our secondary crusher.
Ore is Open-cut mine at that time.
ownership to 53%, in 1997 to sent to a stacker for stockpiling The mine is accessible 99.8% and in 2007 to 99.94%.
Land on which reserves are by public highway.
In 2001, we completed an Process design capacity is 50,000 expansion project to double tpa of nickel in ferronickel form.
Actual capacity depends on nickel grade from the mine.
Electricity is supplied from the national grid based on supply contracts negotiated periodically.
Existing contracts are in place until December 2011.
A pipeline supplies domestic natural gas for drier and kiln operation.
The existing gas supply contract terminates in 2011.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | 37 2 Information on the Company continued Information on Stainless Steel Materials smelters, refineries and processing plants Operation and location Ownership, operation and title Plant type product Capacity and power source NICKEL Kambalda nickel concentrator We own and operate the Mill and concentrator plant The Kambalda concentrator Kambalda nickel concentrator producing concentrate containing has a capacity of approximately 56 km south of Kalgoorlie, and hold mineral leases over the approximately 13% nickel.
1.6 mtpa of ore. Western Australia, Australia land from the Western Australian Power at the Kambalda Government that expire in 2028. concentrator is primarily derived Further renewals are at the from on-site third party gas-fired governments discretion.
Gas for these turbines is sourced by us from the North West Ore is sourced through tolling Shelf gas fields.
The existing gas and concentrate purchase supply contract expires in 2013. arrangements with third parties in the Kambalda region.
The gas is transported through the Goldfields Gas Pipeline, pursuant to an agreement with Southern Cross Pipeline Australia that expires in 2037.
Kalgoorlie nickel smelter We own and operate the The flash smelting process The Kalgoorlie smelter has Kalgoorlie nickel smelter produces matte containing a capacity of approximately Kalgoorlie, Western operation and hold freehold approximately 66% nickel.
Australia, Australia title over the property.
Power at the Kalgoorlie smelter is primarily derived from on-site third party gas-fired turbines.
Gas for these turbines is sourced by us from the North West Shelf gas fields.
The existing gas supply contract expires in 2013.
Kwinana nickel refinery We own and operate the Kwinana The refinery uses the SherrittThe Kwinana nickel refinery nickel refinery operation and hold Gordon ammonia leach process has a capacity of approximately 30 km south of Perth, freehold title over the property.
to convert nickel matte from the 65,000 tpa of nickel metal.
Western Australia, Australia Kalgoorlie nickel smelter into Power generated by Southern LME-grade nickel briquettes Cross Energy in the goldfields and nickel powder.
is distributed across Western The refinery also produces a Powers network for use at the number of intermediate products, Kwinana nickel refinery.
including copper sulphide, The existing gas supply contract cobalt-nickel sulphide and terminates in 2013. ammonium sulphate.
