5 Corporate Governance Statement continued The Dual Listed Company structure means that Annual General 5.2 Shareholder engagement Meetings of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited are The Board represents the Groups shareholders and is held in the United Kingdom and Australia in October and accountable to them for creating and delivering value November, respectively, each year.
Questions can be registered through the effective governance of the business.
prior to the meeting by completing the relevant form accompanying the Notice of Meeting or by emailing the Group The Board has developed a strategy for engaging and at investor.
Questions that have communicating with shareholders, key aspects of which been lodged ahead of the meeting, and the answers to them, are outlined below.
are posted to our website.
The External Auditor attends the Shareholders vote on important matters affecting the business, Annual General Meetings and is available to answer questions.
including the election of Directors, changes to our constitutional Shareholders may appoint proxies electronically through our documents, the receipt of annual financial statements and website.
The Notice of Meeting describes how this can be done.
incentive arrangements for executive Directors.
Proceedings at shareholder meetings and important briefings Shareholders are encouraged to make their views known to are broadcast live from our website.
Copies of the speeches us and to raise directly any matters of concern.
The Board uses delivered by the Chairman and CEO to the Annual General a range of formal and informal measures to ensure that it Meetings are released to the stock exchanges and posted understands and effectively responds to shareholder questions to our website.
A summary of proceedings and the outcome and concerns relating to the management and governance of voting on the items of business are released to the of the Group: relevant stock exchanges and posted to our website G[X 6[T e`Ta j g[ fhccbeg Yeb` g[X Vb`cTal fXVeXgTe Tg as soon as they are available following the completion team, has regular meetings with institutional shareholders of the BHP Billiton Limited meeting.
and investor representatives to discuss governance matters.
G[X EX`haXeTg ba 6b`` ggXX 6[T e`Ta TaW FXa be 5.3 Board of Directors Independent Director also meets with institutional shareholders and investor representatives to discuss 5.3.
1 Role and responsibilities executive remuneration and other governance issues.
The Boards role is to represent the shareholders and it is G [X 6[ XY 8kXVhg iX BYY VXe 68B 6[ XY 9 aTaV T BYY VXe accountable to them for creating and delivering value through CFO and investor relations team meet regularly with the effective governance of the business.
The performance of major shareholders to discuss our strategy, financial the Board and the corresponding contributions of Directors to and operating performance.
the Boards collective decision-making processes are essential G [X aiXfgbe eX Tg baf gXT` cebi WXf dhTegXe l eXcbegf a to fulfil this role.
relation to shareholder feedback generally, which the Board The Board has published a Board Governance Document, uses to assess how the Group is responding to shareholder which is a statement of the practices and processes the views and issues.
Board has adopted to discharge its responsibilities.
It includes 9 a T l f[TeX[b WXef TeX XaVbheTZXW gb TggXaW 5:C 5 gbaf the processes the Board has implemented to undertake Annual General Meetings and to use these opportunities its own tasks and activities: the matters it has reserved for to ask questions discussed further below.
its own consideration and decision-making: the authority In each case, the views and concerns that have been raised it has delegated to the CEO, including the limits on the way are reported to the Board, which ensures Directors are aware in which the CEO can execute that authority: and provides of the issues raised and assists Directors in developing an guidance on the relationship between the Board and the CEO.
understanding of the views of shareholders, in particular in relation to strategic, financial and operating issues.
SHAREHOLDER FEEDBACK Regular investor meetings CHAIRMAN Correspondence BOARD Regular investor meetings CEO, CFO, MANAGEMENT AND INVESTOR RELATIONS Correspondence AGM 130 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010
