As described under the heading Equalisation of economic and 2.13.4 Loans by Directors voting rights in section 2.11.2 of this Report, certain matters Any Director may lend money to BHP Billiton at interest with may be decided as Joint Electorate Actions or Class Rights or without security or may, for a commission or profit, guarantee Actions.
Any matter considered by shareholders at an Annual the repayment of any money borrowed by BHP Billiton and General Meeting of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc underwrite or guarantee the subscription of shares or securities constitutes a Joint Electorate Action and shall therefore be of BHP Billiton or of any corporation in which BHP Billiton may decided on a poll.
Therefore, in practice, generally all items of be interested without being disqualified as a Director and business at Annual General Meetings proceed directly to poll.
without being liable to account for BHP Billiton for any commission or profit.
In addition, at any general meeting a resolution, other than a procedural resolution, put to the vote of the meeting on which 2.13.5 Retirement of Directors the holder of the relevant BHP Billiton Special Voting Share is entitled to vote shall be decided on a poll.
At every Annual General Meeting one-third of the Directors or, if their number is not a multiple of three, then the number For the purposes of determining which shareholders are nearest to but not less than one-third, must retire from office.
entitled to attend or vote at a meeting of BHP Billiton Plc or The Directors to retire are those longest in office since last being BHP Billiton Limited, and how many votes such shareholder may elected.
As between Directors who were elected on the same cast, the relevant company will specify in any notice of meeting day, the Directors to retire are determined by lot in default of a time, not more than 48 hours before the time fixed for the agreement between them.
Further, a Director must retire from meeting, by which a shareholder must be entered on the Register office at the conclusion of the third Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in order to have the right to attend or vote after which the Director was elected or re-elected.
A retiring at the relevant meeting.
director is eligible for re-election.
Shareholders who wish to appoint a proxy to attend, vote or The Board continues to have a policy that requires a speak at a meeting of BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited non-executive Director who has served on the Board for nine as appropriate on their behalf, must deposit the relevant form years from the date of their first election to stand for annual appointing a proxy in accordance with the instructions contained re-election from the first Annual General Meeting after the in any notice of meeting, so as to be received in the specified expiration of their current term.
manner not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting to which the appointment of a proxy relates.
2.13.6 Rights attaching to shares Rights to share in BHP Billiton Limiteds profits Dividend rights Under English law, dividends on shares may only be paid The rights attached to the shares of BHP Billiton Limited, as regards the participation in the profits available for distribution, out of profits available for distribution.
Under Australian law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of net assets, are as follows: provided that the payment is fair and reasonable to the G[X [b WXef bY Tal ceXYXeXaVX f[TeXf f[T UX Xag g XW companys shareholders as a whole and the payment of the in priority to any payment of dividend to the holders of dividend does not materially prejudice the companys ability any other class of shares, to a preferred right to participate to pay its creditors.
The Constitution and Articles of Association as regards dividends up to but not beyond a specified provide that payment of any dividend may be made in any amount in distribution.
manner, by any means and in any currency determined by FhU]XVg gb g[X fcXV T e Z[gf TggTV[ aZ gb Tal ceXYXeXaVX the Board.
shares, but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other classes of shares, the holder of the Equalisation Share if any All unclaimed dividends may be invested or otherwise used by shall be entitled to be paid such dividends as are declared.
the Board for the benefit of whichever of BHP Billiton Limited 4al fhec hf eX`T a aZ TYgXe cTl`Xag bY g[X W fge Uhg baf TUbiX or BHP Billiton Plc declared that dividend, until claimed or, in the shall be payable to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary case of BHP Billiton Limited, otherwise disposed of according to shares and the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share in law.
In the case of BHP Billiton Plc, any dividend unclaimed after equal amounts per share.
a period of 12 years from the date on which such dividend was declared or became due for payment shall be forfeited and shall Rights to share in BHP Billiton Plcs profits revert to BHP Billiton Plc.
The rights attached to the shares of BHP Billiton Plc, in relation Voting rights to the participation in the profits available for distribution, are as follows: Voting at any general meeting of BHP Billiton Limited shareholders is in the first instance to be conducted by G[X [b WXef bY g[X Vh`h Tg iX ceXYXeXaVX f[TeXf f[T UX a show of hands unless a poll is demanded by any of the entitled, in priority to any payment of dividend to the holders following except in relation to the election of a chairman of any other class of shares, to be paid a fixed cumulative of a meeting or, unless the Chairman otherwise determines, preferential dividend Preferential Dividend at a rate of the adjournment of a meeting : 5.5 per cent per annum, to be paid annually in arrears on 31 July in each year or, if any such date shall be a Saturday, the Chairman: Sunday or public holiday in England, on the first business any shareholder under the law: or day following such date in each year.
Payments of Preferential the holder of the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share.
Dividends shall be made to holders on the register at any date Voting at any general meeting of BHP Billiton Plc is in the first selected by the Directors up to 42 days prior to the relevant instance to be conducted by a show of hands unless a poll is fixed dividend date.
demanded by any of the following: FhU]XVg gb g[X e Z[gf TggTV[ aZ gb g[X Vh`h Tg iX ceXYXeXaVX the Chairman: shares, but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other abg Xff g[Ta Y iX `X`UXef ceXfXag a cXefba be Ul cebkl classes of shares, the holder of the BHP Billiton Plc Special and entitled to vote: Voting Share shall be entitled to be paid a fixed dividend of US$0.01 per annum, payable annually in arrears on 31 July.
T `X`UXe be `X`UXef ceXfXag a cXefba be Ul cebkl TaW representing not less than five per cent of the total voting rights of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting: or the holder of the Billiton Special Voting Share.
