Accountability Delegation 5 Corporate Governance Statement 5.1 Governance at BHP Billiton BHP Billitons corporate objective is to create long-term value for shareholders through the discovery, development and conversion of natural resources and the provision of innovative customer and market-focused solutions.
We have unique assets that are critical to the growth of the worlds developing economies, and a geographic and commodity spread that reduces risk and optimises opportunity.
In pursuing the corporate objective, we have committed to the highest level of governance and strive to foster a culture that values and rewards exemplary ethical standards, personal and corporate integrity and respect for others.
The Board governs the Group consistent with our long-stated business strategy and commitment to a transparent and high-quality governance system.
Our approach to governance is firmly based on the belief that there is a link between high-quality governance and the creation of long-term shareholder value.
Our expectations of our employees and those to whom we contract business are set out in the BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct.
This statement outlines our system of governance.
BHP Billiton operates as a single economic entity under a Dual Listed Company DLC structure with a unified Board and management.
We have a primary listing in Australia and a premium listing in the UK and are registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, as well as maintaining a secondary listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
In formulating our governance framework, the regulatory requirements in Australia, the UK and the US have been taken into account, together with prevailing standards of best practice.
Where governance principles vary across these jurisdictions, the Board has resolved to adopt what we consider to be the higher of the prevailing standards.
Our view remains that governance is not just a matter for the Board and a good governance culture must be fostered throughout the organisation.
The past year saw significant commentary on governance practices, through the United Kingdoms Financial Reporting Councils review of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which has now been renamed the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Australian Productivity Commissions Inquiry into Executive Remuneration, as well as proposals for change to the Australian Securities Exchanges Corporate Governance Councils Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations.
Key recommendations emerged, such as the effective composition of the Board including ensuring an appropriate blend of skills and experience, the role of the Chairman and the non-executive Directors, the time commitment expected of non-executive Directors, the alignment of executive remuneration with shareholder interests and the role of the Board in reviewing risk management governance.
We have the benefit of robust governance practices that already address many of the key recommendations: for example, the Board has, for many years, focused on ensuring it has the right mix of skills and experience to effectively carry out its duties.
Significant Board renewal activities were undertaken during the year with the appointment of two Directors, Malcolm Broomhead and Carolyn Hewson and with five Directors retiring, including the former Chairman Don Argus.
Governance is an ongoing process and we aim to maintain our focus on continuous improvement by building a multi-skilled and diversified Board supported by a first-class management team.
We have, over the years, adopted leading corporate governance practices, including implementing an active approach to institutional and retail shareholder engagement.
The Board represents shareholders and is ultimately accountable to them for the Groups performance in creating and delivering shareholder value through the effective governance of BHP Billiton.
Jacques Nasser, Chairman, AO BHP Billiton Governance Structure BOARD Board Governance Document RISK & AUDIT SUSTAINABILITY NOMINATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE AND ASSURANCE External Auditor Policies Group Level Documents BHP Billiton Charter Anti-corruption BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct Antitrust BHP Billiton Way Community Risk Management Policy Contracts and Commitments Sustainable Development Policy Country Risk Management Group Audit Services Resource Planning, Extraction Environment Internal audit includes and Development Policy Financial Reporting Principles Health, Safety, Environment Human Resources Policy Financial External Reporting and Governance and Community audit Financial Management Reporting HSEC Reporting International Trade Laws Key Committees Investment Process Group Management Committee Market Disclosure Financial Risk Management Committee Peer Review Market Risk Management Business Group RACs Major Projects Performance and Reward Investment Committee Privacy Global Ethics Advisory Panel Public Affairs, Investor Relations and Brand Disclosure Committee Risk Management Market Risk Management Committee Securities Dealing Ore Oil Gas Working with Integrity Reserves Review BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | 129 ASSURANCE
