7 Directors Report continued 7.6 Secretaries 7.8 Employee policies and involvement Jane McAloon is the Group Company Secretary.
Details of We are committed to open, honest and productive relationships her qualifications and experience are set out in section 4.1 with our employees.
At BHP Billiton, we recognise the most of this Annual Report.
The following people also act as the important ingredient for success is our talented and motivated Company Secretaries of either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton workforce, whose members demonstrate behaviours that are Plc: Fiona Smith, BSc LLB, FCIS, Deputy Company Secretary aligned to our Charter values.
BHP Billiton Limited, Elizabeth Hobley, BA Hons, ACIS, Deputy We have an integrated people strategy to effectively attract, Company Secretary BHP Billiton Plc and Geof Stapledon, BEc LLB retain and develop talented people.
Our approach is outlined in Hons, DPhil, FCIS, Deputy Company Secretary BHP Billiton Plc.
our Human Resources Policy, the BHP Billiton Code of Business Each such individual has experience in a company secretariat Conduct and the Human Resources Standards and Procedures role arising from time spent in such roles within BHP Billiton, that prescribe what we will do and how we will do it.
All of these large listed companies or other relevant entities.
documents are published and accessible to employees.
Effective communication and employee engagement is critical 7.7 Indemnities and insurance for maintaining open and productive relationships between leaders and employees.
All employees receive communication Rule 146 of the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and Article on BHP Billiton goals and performance, as well as on important 146 of the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association require issues such as health and safety and the environment and the each Company to indemnify to the extent permitted by law, BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct.
Our Code is founded each Director, Secretary or executive officer of BHP Billiton on our Charter values, which make an unqualified commitment Limited and BHP Billiton Plc respectively against liability to working with integrity.
Communication is undertaken through incurred in, or arising out of, the conduct of the business a variety of channels, including the internet, intranet, email, of the Company or the discharge of the duties of the Director, newsletters and other means designed to cater for the local Secretary or executive officer.
The Directors named in section environment.
These tools are also used to facilitate employee 4.1 of this Annual Report, the executive officers and the feedback, as are a variety of consultative processes.
Dispute Company Secretaries of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc and grievance handling processes are also in place to assist have the benefit of this requirement, as do individuals who in equitably addressing workplace issues in all businesses.
formerly held one of those positions.
A Business Conduct Advisory Service operates worldwide to In accordance with this requirement, BHP Billiton Limited allow concerns to be raised about conduct that is out of step and BHP Billiton Plc have entered into Deeds of Indemnity, with our Charter values, our policies and procedures or the law.
Access and Insurance Deeds of Indemnity with each of their Our all-employee share purchase plan, Shareplus, is available respective Directors.
The Deeds of Indemnity are qualifying to all employees, except where local regulations limit operation third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the of the scheme.
In these instances, alternative arrangements UK Companies Act 2006. are in place.
As at 30 June 2010, approximately 37 per cent We have a policy that we will, as a general rule, support and of employees were participants in Shareplus.
The Shareplus hold harmless an employee, including an employee appointed employee plan is described in section 6.3.
3 of this Annual as a director of a subsidiary who, while acting in good faith, Report.
Short-term and long-term incentive schemes also operate incurs personal liability to others as a result of working for us.
Rewards for individuals are predicated on the need to meet targets relating to our Companys performance From time to time, we engage our External Auditor, KPMG, in areas such as health, safety and achievement of financial to conduct non-statutory audit work and provide other services measures and on the personal performance of each employee.
in accordance with our policy on the provision of other services by the External Auditor.
The terms of engagement include All employees are entitled to balanced and realistic feedback an indemnity in favour of KPMG: coupled with the identification of development and training TZT afg T bffXf V T `f Vbfgf XkcXafXf TVg baf WX`TaWf needs to help maximise their performance and realise their damages, liabilities or any proceedings liabilities incurred full potential.
In FY2010, 63 per cent of employees participated by KPMG in respect of third party claims arising from in a formal performance review process.
Due to industrial a breach by the Group under the engagement terms: agreements, not all employees are able to participate in Y be T TU g Xf C@: [Tf gb g[X :ebhc be Tal g[ eW cTegl individual performance reviews.
The importance we place as a result of reliance on information provided by the Group on employee development and training is demonstrated by that is false, misleading or incomplete.
the significant amount of training our employees undertake.
In FY2010, the average hours spent on training per annum We have insured against amounts that we may be liable to per employee was 120 hours for full-time employees and pay to Directors, Company Secretaries or certain employees 32 hours for part-time employees.
pursuant to Rule 146 of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and Article 146 of the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton is committed to developing and maintaining or that we otherwise agree to pay by way of indemnity.
a diverse workforce and providing a work environment The insurance policy also insures Directors, Company Secretaries in which every employee is treated fairly and with respect.
and some employees against certain liabilities including legal We work actively to avoid discrimination on any basis, including costs they may incur in carrying out their duties for us.
Where an employee suffers some disability while they are employed, we work to identify roles that meet their skill, We have paid premiums for this Directors and Officers experience and capability, and in some cases offer retraining.
insurance of US$2,594,990 net during FY2010.
Some Directors, We also work hard to offer flexible work practices, where this Company Secretaries and employees contribute to the premium is possible, taking into account the needs of the employee for this insurance.
and those of the particular workplace.
Our remuneration policy and employment packages, which must comply with local regulations, are based on merit, aligned to our business requirements and sufficiently attractive to recruit and retain the best people.
Our employees can access our Annual Reports either via the intranet or hard copy.
