Group Management Committee Marcus Randolph BSc, MBA, 54 The role of the Group Management Committee GMC Group Executive and Chief Executive Ferrous and Coal is to provide advice to the Chief Executive Officer on Member of the Group Management Committee matters that are strategic and long term in nature, Marcus Randolph was previously Chief Organisation or have the potential to significantly impact the Groups Development Officer, President Diamonds and Specialty Products, performance and reputation.
The GMC is the senior Chief Development Officer Minerals and Chief Strategic Officer management team at BHP Billiton.
His prior career includes Chief Executive Officer, First Dynasty Mines, Mining and Minerals Executive, Rio Tinto plc, Director of Acquisitions and Strategy, Kennecott Inc, General Manager Corporacin Minera Nor Peru, Asarco Inc, and various mine operating positions in the US with Asarco Inc.
He has been in his current position as Chief Executive Ferrous and Coal since July 2007.
Alex Vanselow Marius Kloppers BComm, Wharton AMP, 48 BE Chem, MBA, PhD Materials Science, 48 Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer and executive Director Member of the Group Management Committee and Chairman of the Chairman of the Group Management Committee Investment Committee and Financial Risk Management Committee Marius Kloppers has been active in the mining and resources Alex Vanselow joined the Group in 1989 and was appointed industry since 1993 and was appointed Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer in March 2006.
He was previously President in October 2007.
He was previously Chief Commercial Officer, Aluminium, Chief Financial Officer of Aluminium, Vice President Chief Marketing Officer, Group Executive of Billiton Plc, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Orinoco Iron CA, and Manager Chief Executive of Samancor Manganese and held various Accounting and Control BHP Iron Ore. His prior career was with positions at Billiton Aluminium, among them Chief Operating Arthur Andersen.
Officer and General Manager of Hillside Aluminium.
Karen Wood Alberto Calderon BEd, LLB Hons, 54 PhD Econ, M Phil Econ, JD Law, BA Econ, 50 Group Executive and Chief People Officer Group Executive and Chief Commercial Officer Member of the Group Management Committee and Member of the Group Management Committee Chairman of the Global Ethics Advisory Panel Alberto Calderon joined the Group as President Diamonds and Karen Woods previous positions with BHP Billiton were Chief Specialty Products in February 2006 and was appointed to his Governance Officer, Group Company Secretary and Special Adviser current position as Chief Commercial Officer in July 2007.
Prior to and Head of Group Secretariat.
She is a member of the Takeovers this, he was Chief Executive Officer of Cerrejn Coal Company and Panel Australia, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries President of the oil company Ecopetrol.
In the early 1990s, he was and a member of the Law Council of Australia and the Law Institute President of the Power Company of Bogot and held various senior of Victoria.
Before joining BHP Billiton, she was General Counsel roles in investment banking and in the Colombian Government.
and Company Secretary for Bonlac Foods Limited.
She has been in her current position as Chief People Officer since July 2007.
Andrew Mackenzie BSc Geology, PhD Chemistry, 53 J Michael Yeager Group Executive and Chief Executive Non-Ferrous BSc, MSc, 57 Member of the Group Management Committee Group Executive and Chief Executive Petroleum Andrew Mackenzie joined BHP Billiton in November 2008 in his Member of the Group Management Committee current position as Chief Executive Non-Ferrous.
His prior career Mike Yeager joined the Group in April 2006 as Chief Executive included time with Rio Tinto, where he was Chief Executive of Petroleum after 25 years with Mobil and later ExxonMobil.
Diamonds and Minerals, and with BP, where he held a number He was previously Vice President, ExxonMobil Development of senior roles, including Group Vice President for Technology Company, and held the roles of Senior Vice President, Imperial and Engineering and Group Vice President for Chemicals.
Oil Ltd and Chief Executive Officer, Imperial Oil Resources, He is a non-executive director of Centrica plc.
Vice President Africa, ExxonMobil Production Company, Vice President Europe, ExxonMobil Production Company and President, Mobil Exploration and Production in the US.
