2.12.2 Proposed iron ore production joint venture Failure to advance funds to meet calls made by the manager will give rise to a suspension of the defaulting partys Owners with Rio Tinto continued Council voting rights and may trigger dilution of the defaulting The parties have agreed that they will bear the economic benefit partys interest in the joint venture or a right to buy out the and burden of the after-tax cash flows of their respective assets defaulting party.
in the period from 1 July 2009 to commencement of the joint venture.
To achieve this, the BHP Billiton cash subscription Expansions and acquisitions payment described above will be adjusted for 50 per cent Sole risk rights will exist for expansion projects which involve of the difference between the net cash flows after tax from capital expenditure exceeding US$250 million indexed.
the Rio Tinto operations and the BHP Billiton operations during Disagreements in relation to preferred expansion pathways the period from 1 July 2009 until completion, inflated at a rate where more than one option exists will be resolved by the of 6.5 per cent per annum.
manager determining which expansion pathway has the highest net present value.
Governance of the joint venture Proposals for new iron ore acquisitions or investments in Management of the joint venture will be overseen by Western Australia will be referred to the Owners Council and, a non-executive Owners Council comprised of four if both parties agree, be undertaken within the joint venture.
All decisions of the Owners Absent this agreement, the opportunity may be undertaken Council must be approved by both parties, subject to certain by the proposing party as a sole risk project.
Marketing of product and adjustments and tonnage supply The initial chairman of the Owners Council will be Sam Walsh Rio Tintos Chief Executive Iron Ore and Australia, who will BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto will continue to compete and market hold that office for a period of four years.
The Owners Council iron ore to their customers separately.
A separation protocol will have the power to approve high-level policies such as will ensure that the manager has no knowledge of BHP Billitons accounting, business conduct, communities and health, safety and Rio Tintos marketing strategies or sale terms relating to and environment relating to the joint venture, review the production from the joint venture.
The manager will supply conduct of activities undertaken by the manager and give equal product volumes and specifications of product to each general direction to the manager.
party to the extent possible.
Where equal supply is not possible, adjustments will be made to ensure that each party receives The Owners Council will also have powers and functions, much equal value.
These adjustments may include differential like a board of directors, in relation to other matters, including: distributions on the debentures.
approval of business and synergy plans: approving major contracts and capital projects: reviewing performance of the Disposal of interests joint venture: approving major asset acquisitions, disposals and The parties will both be free to sell some or all of their respective closures: approving strategies for dealing with third party access interests in the joint venture without any pre-emptive rights requests: approving product types, volumes and specifications: or change of control restrictions applying although certain approving entry into or amendment of State Agreements: and principles and restrictions will apply depending on the nature approving the appointment and remuneration of senior executive and extent of the disposal.
The right to vote on the Owners team members.
Standing and ad hoc committees comprised of Council can, however, only be exercised by a person with an an equal number of representatives of BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto economic interest of more than 25 per cent of the joint venture, will be established to advise the Owners Council in relation except in the unlikely scenario where no party holds an economic to the exercise of some of its powers and functions.
Neither party will be entitled to sell the underlying assets or interests separately from the joint Overview venture interest, and rights to create security interests over Management the underlying assets and interests are limited.
The joint venture manager, a new entity owned equally by 2.12.3 Facility agreement BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, will, subject to the powers held by the Owners Council, manage all day to day activities of On 18 August 2010, we entered into a multicurrency term the joint venture without interference from BHP Billiton and and revolving facility and subscription agreement the facility Rio Tinto.
In addition, the manager will develop plans for agreement with, among others, Banco Santander, S. A. London realisation of synergies and will present the Owners Council Branch, Barclays Bank PLC, BNP Paribas, JPMorgan Chase Bank, with annual business plans and budgets designed to achieve N. A.
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and The Toronto-Dominion full utilisation of system capacity and options for maximisation Bank as lenders the Lenders to, among other things, meet of production capacity through expansion.
The manager must potential funding requirements in relation to our offer to acquire ensure joint venture operations are conducted safely at all times, PotashCorp.
The facility agreement provides for four credit act equitably and fairly to the parties, and act in accordance with facilities in an aggregate amount of US$45 billion as follows: business plans and budgets approved by the Owners Council.
T HF % U ba gXe` bTa YTV gl j g[ T gXe` bY & ' WTlf which may be extended by BHP Billiton for a further 12 months Senior management of the manager will be selected jointly, subject to the payment of an extension fee: with broadly equal participation from BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto.
T HF $# U ba gXe` bTa YTV gl j g[ T gXe` bY g[eXX lXTef.
The initial chief executive officer of the joint venture will be BHP Billiton Iron Ore President Ian Ashby, who will hold that T HF U ba eXib i aZ YTV gl j g[ T gXe` bY g[eXX lXTef.
TaW office for a period of four years.
Future chief executive officers T HF U ba eXib i aZ YTV gl j g[ T gXe` bY Ybhe lXTef will be appointed by the Owners Council.
incorporating a US dollar swingline facility and a euro swingline facility.
Funding and default The joint venture will operate with a minimum cash balance and will be financed entirely by the parties, through money subscribed for debentures and money advanced by loan to the relevant iron ore companies conducting operations.
The manager of the joint venture will call for cash from BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto on a regular basis to fund the joint venture and capital expenditure programs.
The parties may elect to fund their proportionate share of an expansion or acquisition by way of project financing and may use their interests in the joint venture to secure corporate debt.
