2.14.1 Petroleum reserves continued 2.14.2 Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves Proved undeveloped reserves Introduction At year-end, Petroleum had 692 million boe of proved The statement of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves undeveloped reserves, as compared with 662 million boe at the presented in this Report has been produced in accordance end of FY2009.
During this period, Petroleum moved 70 million with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration boe of proved reserves from undeveloped to developed with Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves, December 2004 the startup of the Pyrenees project in Western Australia and the JORC Code.
Commodity prices and exchange rates used several individual wells elsewhere in the Company.
This was to estimate the economic viability of reserves are based on more than offset by the additions due to revisions and extensions BHP Billiton long-term forecasts unless otherwise stated.
During FY2010, Petroleum spent $2,006 million The Ore Reserves tabulated are all held within existing, fully progressing development of proved undeveloped reserves in permitted mining tenements.
The BHP Billiton Groups mineral the Northwest Shelf Oil and Gas Projects, the Bass Strait field, leases are of sufficient duration or convey a legal right to and the Macedon field in Australia: in Pakistans Zamzama renew for sufficient duration to enable all reserves on the leased gas field: on the Angostura Gas Project in Trinidad: and in properties to be mined in accordance with current production the Atlantis, Mad Dog, Neptune, and Shenzi developments schedules.
Our Ore Reserves may include areas where some in the Gulf of Mexico.
additional approvals remain outstanding, but where, based on the technical investigations we carry out as part of our Most of the Groups projects require significant capital planning process, and our knowledge and experience of expenditure and multi-year lead times before initial production the approvals process, we expect that such approvals will can be achieved with the associated movement of reserves from be obtained as part of the normal course of business and undeveloped to developed.
Based on current project schedules, within the time frame required by the current schedule.
more than 95 per cent of the 692 MMboe currently classified as undeveloped are actively being pursued and are scheduled to be The information in this Report relating to Mineral Resources on stream within the next five years.
The remaining undeveloped and Ore Reserves is based on information compiled by Competent reserves are located in active fields expected to produce well Persons as defined in the JORC Code.
All Competent Persons into the next decade and will be brought on stream in a phased have, at the time of reporting, sufficient experience relevant manner to best optimise the use of production facilities and to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under to meet long-term gas supply contracts.
Petroleum has a consideration and to the activity they are undertaking to qualify dependable history of progressing large undeveloped volumes as a Competent Person as defined by the JORC Code.
At the from undeveloped to developed, evidenced by the past three reporting date, each Competent Person listed in this Report years, which have averaged 90 million boe per year.
is a full-time employee of BHP Billiton or a company in which BHP Billiton has a controlling interest unless otherwise noted.
Each Competent Person consents to the inclusion in this Report of the matters based on their information in the form and context in which it appears.
All of the Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve figures presented are reported in 100 per cent terms and represent estimates at 30 June 2010 unless otherwise stated.
All tonnes and grade information has been rounded, hence small differences may be present in the totals.
All of the Mineral Resource information is inclusive of Mineral Resources that have been converted to Ore Reserves unless otherwise stated i. e. Mineral Resources are not additional to Ore Reserves.
Reserve life is calculated as Total Ore Reserve divided by the current nominal capacity of the operation.
The information contained herein differs in certain respects from that reported to the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, which is prepared with reference to the SECs Industry Guide 7.
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves are presented in the accompanying tables.
