2.8 Sustainable Development Health, Safety, 2.10 Employees Environment and Community continued Our corporate objective is to create long-term value for shareholders through the discovery, development and conversion Community of natural resources and the provision of innovative customer Our operations are diverse and the scale and nature of their and market-focused solutions.
Regular, open and honest People are the foundation of our business and underpin our dialogue is the key to building win-win relationships.
We value our people and encourage the development is to minimise negative social impacts while maximising the of talented and motivated individuals to support the continued opportunities and benefits the Groups presence brings.
performance and growth of our diverse operations.
It is our aim While our businesses tailor their community relations as an organisation to strive to build a sense of purpose and programs to suit the local context, our Community GLD achievement amongst all of our people in the work we do.
sets the mandatory requirements to be implemented by By working to our Charter we align our people around our all our operations.
For example, our sites are required to have common purpose and values.
We all use the Charter as a vital community development plans that aim to help contribute to reference point for how we do business, wherever we are the sustainable development of our host communities.
As part in the world, and whatever work we do.
of the community planning process, all key stakeholders, including local and Indigenous communities, must be identified Our organisation is structured in four component parts: and an analysis undertaken to understand their interests and @ aXeT f 8kc beTg ba relationship with the business.
@Te Xg aZ We require all our operations to record stakeholder engagement 6hfgb`Xe FXVgbe :ebhcf activities, responses to concerns and complaints, outcomes, :ebhc 9haVg baf!
Each has a clear mandate that articulates its accountabilities.
Community development projects are selected on the basis As a global business, our success depends on fostering a culture of their capacity to impact positively on quality of life indicators where diverse and often remotely located people behave in a education, health and environment.
We monitor their progress manner that reflects our Charter and our commitment to open, by tracking changes in these indicators every three years.
honest and productive relationships with our people.
We believe The BHP Billiton Forum on Corporate Responsibility, which these relationships should be determined by local conditions, comprises our executive management and leaders from but always be consistent with our Charter values and non-government organisations NGOs chaired by our BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct.
Chief Executive Officer, met twice during FY2010.
Diversity of gender, ethnicity, skill, thought, experience, style No significant human rights-related issues were identified and language are important elements of our people strategy in this reporting period and there were no reported and are key drivers for our success.
In FY2010, we demonstrated community resettlements.
our commitment to local employment.
An average of 41 per cent We continue to invest one per cent of our pre-tax profits of our workforce and 24 per cent of management were hired based on the average of the previous three years pre-tax from the relevant local community.
profit publicly reported in each of those years in Ensuring diversity in our local workforce and management community programs.
populations is also supported by the work we have undertaken in our Accelerated Leadership Development Program and our Foundations for Graduates Program.
Our Accelerated Leadership 2.9 Closure and rehabilitation Development Program identifies employees with the potential The requirements in Our Sustainability Framework are to move into senior leadership roles and supports them with incorporated through the planning of development projects, a structured development and learning program.
32 per cent through operations and into closure.
Significant projects are of current participants are female.
governed by the performance requirements of our project Participation in the Foundations for Graduates Program in 2010 management Group Level Documents GLD.
Health, Safety, is 677 participants, up from 501 participants in 2009.
Environment and Community HSEC risks, legislated obligations and stakeholder requirements form important inputs to the Females currently represent 15 per cent of our workforce.
project planning and execution process.
The number of females in management positions is approximately eight per cent.
The representation of females Once in operation, our assets undertake annual life of asset across our workforce has remained consistent with FY2009.
planning, a process that incorporates all aspects of the business.
Closure planning is integrated into life of asset planning with In FY2011 we have committed to the following measurable each operation required to develop a closure plan.
We are objectives to enhance our gender diversity profile: responsible for a number of legacy operations that are in various 8TV[ 6F: :ebhc 9haVg ba @Te Xg aZ TaW @ aXeT f 8kc beTg ba stages of decommissioning, rehabilitation or post-closure care will be required to develop and implement a diversity plan and maintenance.
The HSEC audit program covers the activities in FY2011 that meets the corporations strategic imperative of these closed operations as well as closure-related issues at of diversity.
The principles that underpin the development operations that are approaching closure.
Closure plans provide of those plans are set out in Section 5.8 of the Corporate the basis for estimating the financial costs of closure and the Governance Statement.
Information on our closure provisions 6bag ahX gb YbVhf ba aVeXTf aZ YX`T X cTeg V cTg ba can be found in notes 1 and 18 of the Financial Statements.
in the Accelerated Leadership Development Program, In FY2010, a review of the Groups closure planning and moving to 40 per cent for FY2012.
The recommendations EXi Xj aZ g[X `XTaf Ul j[ V[ jX eXVeh g ZeTWhTgXf TaW from the review are in the process of being implemented and setting appropriate targets for female intake by end of include further integration of closure into planning and FY2015 and identifying and implementing the necessary accounting processes and the development of more detailed actions to achieve those targets.
requirements for the content of closure plans.
