1 Risk and Audit Committee Report The Risk and Audit Committee RAC met nine times during Business Group Risk and Audit Committees the year.
Information on meeting attendance by Committee To assist management in providing the information necessary members is included in the table in section 5.4.
1. to allow the RAC to discharge its responsibilities, Risk and Audit Committees have been established for each of our Risk and Audit Committee members during the year Business Groups, incorporating each Customer Sector Group CSG and for key functional areas such as Marketing and Name Status Treasury.
As illustrated in the diagram below, these Committees, 1 known as Business Group RACs, have been established and David Crawford Chairman Member for whole period operate as committees of management, but are chaired by David Jenkins Member to 26 November 2009 members of the RAC.
They perform an important monitoring function in the overall governance of the Group.
David Morgan Member to 24 November 2009 Significant financial and risk matters raised at Business Group Wayne Murdy Member for the whole period RAC meetings are reported to the RAC by the Head of Group Jacques Nasser Member until 30 March 2010 Reporting and Taxation and the Head of Risk Assessment and Assurance.
Carolyn Hewson Member from 31 March 2010 1 The Board has nominated David Crawford as the Committees Activities undertaken during the year financial expert.
Integrity of financial statements Role and focus The RAC assists the Board in assuring the integrity of The role of the RAC is to assist the Board in monitoring the the financial statements.
The RAC evaluates and makes decisions and actions of the CEO and the Group and to gain recommendations to the Board about the appropriateness assurance that progress is being made towards the corporate of accounting policies and practices, areas of judgement, objective within the CEO limits.
The RAC undertakes this compliance with Accounting Standards, stock exchange by overseeing: and legal requirements and the results of the external audit.
the integrity of the financial statements: It reviews the half yearly and annual financial statements and makes recommendations on specific actions or decisions the appointment, remuneration, qualifications, independence including formal adoption of the financial statements and performance of the External Auditor and the integrity and reports the Board should consider in order to maintain of the audit process as a whole: the integrity of the financial statements.
From time to time, the performance and leadership of the internal audit function: the Board may delegate authority to the RAC to approve the the effectiveness of the system of internal controls and release of the statements to the stock exchanges, shareholders risk management: and the financial community.
compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements: The CEO and CFO have certified that the 2010 financial compliance by management with constraints imposed statements present a true and fair view, in all material by the Board.
respects, of our financial condition and operating results and are in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements.
BOARD RISK & AUDIT COMMITTEE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Each Business Group Risk & Audit Committee is chaired by a Board Risk & Audit Committee member.
Other members include: Head of Group GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Reporting and Taxation: Head of Risk Assessment and Assurance OTHER GROUP-LEVEL MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES Material issues raised at Business Group Risk & Audit Committees are reported to the Board Risk & Audit Committee by the Head of Group Businesses CSGs, Marketing, Treasury Reporting and Taxation and the Head of Risk Assessment Assurance Business Group Risk and Audit Committees BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | 139 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.5.
1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued External Auditor Internal Audit The RAC manages the relationship with the External Auditor The Internal Audit function is carried out internally by Group on behalf of the Board.
It considers the reappointment of the Audit Services GAS.
The role of GAS is to determine whether External Auditor each year, as well as remuneration and other risk management, control and governance processes are terms of engagement, and makes a recommendation to the adequate and functioning.
The Internal Audit function is Board.
The last competitive audit review was in 2003, when independent of the External Auditor.
The RAC reviews the KPMG was appointed by the Board on the recommendation mission and charter of GAS, the staffing levels and its scope of the RAC.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict of work to ensure that it is appropriate in light of the key risks the RACs capacity to recommend a particular firm for we face.
It also reviews and approves the annual internal appointment as auditor.
Shareholders are asked to approve audit plan.
the reappointment of the auditor each year in the UK.
The RAC also approves the appointment and dismissal of the The RAC evaluates the performance of the External Auditor Head of Risk Assessment and Assurance and assesses his or during its term of appointment against specified criteria, her performance, independence and objectivity.
The role of the including delivering value to shareholders and ourselves.
Head of Risk Assessment and Assurance includes achievement The RAC reviews the integrity, independence and objectivity of the internal audit objectives, risk management policies and of the External Auditor.
This review includes: insurance strategy.
The position is held by Stefano Giorgini.
Mr Giorgini reports to management and has all necessary confirming that the External Auditor is, in its judgement, access to management and the right to see information independent of the Group: and explanations, and has unfettered access to the RAC.
obtaining from the External Auditor an account of all During the year, HSEC audit activities were transferred relationships between the External Auditor and the Group: to the Risk Assessment and Assurance Function.
monitoring the number of former employees of the External Auditor currently employed in senior positions and assessing Effectiveness of systems of internal control whether those appointments impair, or appear to impair, and risk management the External Auditors judgement or independence: In delegating authority to the CEO, the Board has established considering whether the various relationships between the CEO limits set out in the Board Governance Document.
Limits Group and the External Auditor collectively impair, or appear on the CEOs authority require the CEO to ensure that there is to impair, the External Auditors judgement or independence: a system of control in place for identifying and managing risk.
determining whether the compensation of individuals The Directors, through the RAC, review the systems that have employed by the External Auditor who conduct the audit is been established for this purpose and regularly review their tied to the provision of non-audit services and, if so, whether effectiveness.
These reviews include assessing that processes this impairs, or appears to impair, the External Auditors continue to meet evolving external governance requirements.
judgement or independence: The RAC is responsible for the oversight of risk management reviewing the economic importance of our business to the and reviews the internal controls and risk management External Auditor and assessing whether that importance systems.
In undertaking this role the RAC reviews impairs, or appears to impair, the External Auditors the following: judgement or independence.
procedures for identifying business risks and controlling The External Auditor also certifies its independence to the RAC.
their financial impact on the Group and the operational effectiveness of the policies and procedures related to The audit engagement partner rotates every five years.
risk and control: Although the External Auditor does provide some non-audit budgeting and forecasting systems, financial reporting services, the objectivity and independence of the External systems and controls: Auditor is safeguarded through restrictions on the provision policies and practices put in place by the CEO for detecting, of these services.
For example, certain types of non-audit reporting and preventing fraud and serious breaches service may only be undertaken by the External Auditor of business conduct and whistle-blowing procedures: with the prior approval of the RAC, while other services may not be undertaken at all, including services where procedures for ensuring compliance with relevant regulatory and legal requirements: the External Auditor: arrangements for protecting intellectual property and other `Tl UX eXdh eXW gb ThW g gf bja jbe.
non-physical assets: cTeg V cTgXf a TVg i g Xf g[Tg jbh W abe`T l UX haWXegT Xa by management: operational effectiveness of the Business Group RAC structures: f eX`haXeTgXW g[ebhZ[ T fhVVXff YXX fgehVgheX.
overseeing the adequacy of the internal controls and TVgf a Ta TWibVTVl eb X Ybe bhe Uhf aXff!
allocation of responsibilities for monitoring internal financial controls: policies, information systems and procedures for preparation Our Policy on Provision of Audit and Other Services by the External Auditor can be viewed and dissemination of information to shareholders, stock at www.
exchanges and the financial community.
For further discussion on our approach to risk management, Fees paid to the Groups External Auditor during the year refer to section 5.6. for audit and other services were US$22.2 million, of which 60 per cent comprised audit fees, 24 per cent related to legislative requirements including Sarbanes-Oxley and 16 per cent for other services.
Details of the fees paid are set out in note 34 Auditors remuneration to the financial statements.
Based on the review by the RAC, the Board is satisfied that the External Auditor is independent.
