Shareholder information Shareholders from the above-mentioned locations who do not provide their direct credit details and shareholders with Annual General Meetings registered addresses outside Australia, UK, New Zealand BHP Billiton Plc Thursday, 21 October 2010 at 11.00am and US will receive dividend payments by way of a cheque The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, in Australian dollars.
BHP Billiton Plc shareholders may have their cash dividends paid BHP Billiton Limited Tuesday, 16 November 2010 at 10.30am directly into a bank or building society by completing a dividend Perth Convention Exhibition Centre, 21 Mounts Bay Road, mandate form, which is available from the BHP Billiton Share Perth, Australia.
Registrar in the UK or South Africa.
Change of shareholder details and enquiries Stock exchange listings Shareholders may contact the appropriate office of the BHP Billiton Limited has a primary listing on the Australian BHP Billiton Share Registrar or Transfer Office on any matter Securities Exchange ASX in Australia.
BHP Billiton Plc has a relating to their shares or American Depositary Receipt holdings.
premium listing on the UK Listing Authoritys Official List and Dividend policy and payments its ordinary shares are admitted to trading on the London Stock We have a progressive dividend policy that seeks to steadily Exchange LSE.
BHP Billiton Plc also has a secondary listing increase or at least to maintain the dividend in US dollars at on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE in South Africa.
each half yearly payment provided that we generate sufficient In addition, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are listed profit and cash flow to do so.
on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the US.
Trading on the NYSE is via American Depositary Shares.
We declare our dividends and other distributions in US dollars as it is our main functional currency.
BHP Billiton Limited pays its Key dates for shareholders dividends in Australian dollars, UK pounds sterling, New Zealand The following table sets out future dates in the next financial dollars or US dollars, depending on the country of residence of and calendar year of interest to our shareholders.
If there are the shareholder.
BHP Billiton Plc pays its dividends in UK pounds any changes to these dates, all relevant stock exchanges will sterling to shareholders registered on its principal register in be notified.
the UK and in South African rand to shareholders registered on its branch register in South Africa.
If shareholders on the Date Events UK register wish to receive dividends in US dollars they must 30 September 2010 Final Dividend Payment Date complete an appropriate election form and return it to the 21 October 2010 BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton Share Registrar no later than close of business Annual General Meeting in London on the Dividend Record Date.
16 November 2010 BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Limited shareholders may have their cash dividends Annual General Meeting in Perth paid directly into a nominated bank, building society or credit union, depending on the shareholders country of residence 16 February 2011 Interim Results Announced as shown below.
11 March 2011 Interim Dividend Record Date Country where shareholder 31 March 2011 Interim Dividend Payment Date is resident Financial institution 24 August 2011 Annual Results Announced Australia Bank, building society, credit union UK Bank, building society New Zealand Bank US Bank Visit www.
com for up-to-date Group and shareholder information, including: Online shareholder services Receive your reports electronically check your holding The BHP Billiton Group produces an Annual Report, a Summary Review and a Sustainability Report, vote online which are posted on the internet.
Shareholders are update direct credit details encouraged to visit www.
com to inspect create your own virtual portfolio the electronic versions of these publications and provide feedback to the Company.
register to receive electronic shareholder communications Annual, financial, production and sustainability reports News and presentations Company overview Governance information Subscribe to receive news sent directly to your email address 36 | BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2010
