2 Information on the Company continued Present Activities continued expansion see Development projects below.
Our share of Worsleys FY2010 production was 3.054 million tonnes of Atlantis South Water Injection alumina.
Worsleys export customers include our own Hillside, The Atlantis South Water Injection project, which is in the Bayside and Mozal smelters in southern Africa.
Boddington execution phase, involves drilling four subsea water injectors, has a reserve life of 23.9 years at current production rates.
tying them into the existing infrastructure and commissioning We own 86 per cent of the mine and the refinery.
the 75 thousand barrels of water per day injection facilities.
Kaaimangrasie Klaverblad Caramacca This water injection project mitigates low aquifer pressure Coermotibo Paranam which could result in a swift production decline.
BP is the On 31 July 2009, we executed transaction agreements to operator and we hold a 44 per cent working interest.
pass all of our 45 per cent interest in the Suriname bauxite Atlantis North Phase 2B and alumina joint venture that comprised bauxite mines in the Kaaimangrasie, Klaverblad, Caramacca and Coermotibo areas The Atlantis North Flank began production in July 2009: and of Suriname and the nearby Paranam alumina refinery to the North Phase 2B is a brownfield capital investment program Suralco effective on that date.
Our share of Paranams FY2010 being developed to improve production rates.
Phase 2B includes production to the date of sale was 78,000 tonnes of alumina.
a three well program and associated subsea infrastructure.
As with the original Atlantis North project, BP is the operator, We also own 14.8 per cent of Minerao Rio do Norte MRN and we hold a 44 per cent working interest.
which owns and operates a large bauxite mine in Brazil.
We have interests in the Alumar integrated alumina refinery Mad Dog Phase 2 aluminium smelter and three stand-alone aluminium smelters: The Mad Dog Phase 2 project is in response to the successful Alumar Mad Dog South appraisal well, which confirmed significant We own 36 per cent of the Alumar refinery and 40 per cent resource in the southern portion of the Mad Dog field.
The operations, We are working with our partners in the project to select and their integrated port facility, are located at So Lus in the optimum concept for development.
the Maranho province of Brazil.
Alumar sources bauxite from Other MRN.
During FY2010, approximately 46 per cent of Alumars alumina production was used to feed the smelter, while the Zamzama Front End Compression remainder was exported.
Our share of Alumars FY2010 Zamzama Front End Compression is a brownfield project saleable production was 709,000 tonnes of alumina and which allows for the additional drawdown of the reservoir, 174,000 tonnes of aluminium.
The Alumar refinery completed adding reserves and extending the plateau.
Development is a significant expansion in October 2009. currently underway.
Hillside and Bayside Delivery Commitments Our Hillside and Bayside smelters are located at Richards Bay, South Africa.
Hillsides capacity of approximately 715,000 We have delivery commitments of natural gas and LNG of tonnes per annum makes it the largest aluminium smelter in approximately 2,594 billion cubic feet through 2031 67 per cent the southern hemisphere and it is one of the most efficient.
Australia and 33 per cent Other and crude, condensate and NGL Bayside has a smelting capacity of approximately 96,000 commitments of 33.3 million barrels through 2011 72 per cent tonnes per annum, but it also uses its own aluminium and Australia, 27 per cent United States and 1 per cent Other.
liquid aluminium from Hillside to produce various slab We have sufficient proved reserves and production capacity products.
Both operations import alumina predominantly to fulfil these delivery commitments.
Further information can from our Worsley refinery and source power from Eskom, be found in Section 2.14.1. the South African state utility, under long-term contracts with prices linked to the LME price of aluminium except for 2.2.
3 Aluminium Customer Sector Group Hillside Potline 3, the price of which is linked to the South Our Aluminium business is a portfolio of assets at three African and US producer price indices.
stages of the aluminium value chain: we mine bauxite, we refine bauxite into alumina, and we smelt alumina into In January 2008, Eskom determined that it had insufficient power to meet the national demand in South Africa, and aluminium metal.
We are the worlds seventh-largest producer of aluminium, with total production in FY2010 of 1.2 million mandated an emergency 10 per cent reduction in power consumption by many large industrial users, including tonnes of aluminium.
We also produced 13.9 million tonnes of bauxite and 3.8 million tonnes of alumina.
Although our contracts with Eskom specify that power supply to our aluminium smelters can only During FY2010, 52 per cent of our alumina production was be interrupted approximately one per cent of the time used in our aluminium smelters and we sold the balance to other per calendar year, we have respected the emergency smelters.
Our alumina sales are a mixture of long-term contract situation faced by the country and reduced our demand sales at London Metal Exchange LMElinked prices and spot by the requested 10 per cent.
To achieve this in the most sales at negotiated prices.
Prices for our aluminium sales are economically efficient way, we have mothballed the generally linked to prevailing LME prices.
B and C potlines at Bayside, reducing production there As with our other businesses, our strategy with bauxite and by approximately 90,400 tonnes per annum.
Across both alumina is to own large, low-cost assets that provide good South African smelters, associated production losses returns through the investment cycle and provide us with options were approximately 86,000 tonnes per annum.
With aluminium smelters, where Mozal the availability and cost of power are critical, our investment We own 47.1 per cent of and operate the Mozal aluminium decisions have been driven in part by the availability of stranded smelter in Mozambique, which has a total capacity of power generation capacity.
Mozal sources We have interests in one integrated bauxite mining alumina power generated by Hydro Cahora Basa via Motraco, a refining asset: transmission joint venture between Eskom and the national electricity utilities of Mozambique and Swaziland.
"Our share 5bWW aZgba""Jbef Xl of Mozals FY2010 production was 259,000 tonnes."
The Boddington bauxite mine in Western Australia supplies bauxite ore via a 51 kilometre long conveyor to the Worsley alumina refinery.
Worsley is one of the largest and lowest-cost refineries in the world, and is currently undergoing a major 26 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Information on the Aluminium CSGs bauxite mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
2 and reserve tables see section 2.14.2.
Name, location, mineralisation Ownership, operation style, type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source Boddington bauxite mine We own 86% of the Worsley The Boddington bauxite mine The mine has a crushing plant joint venture.
The other 14% opened in 1983 and was with the capacity of approximately 123 km southeast of Perth at interest is owned by Sojitz significantly extended in 2000.
Power is Boddington, Western Australia, Alumina Pty Ltd 4%, and supplied from the Worsley Australia Japan Alumina Associates alumina refinery site via a joint Surficial gibbsite-rich lateritic Australia Pty Ltd 10%.
bauxite, residual weathering BHP Billiton Worsley Alumina A description of the Worsley of Darling Range metamorphic Pty Ltd is the manager of the alumina refinery can be found and volcanic rocks joint venture on behalf of the in the table below.
BHP Billiton The mine is accessible by Worsley Alumina Pty Ltd has sealed public roads.
The ore the same ownership structure is transported to Worsley as the Worsley joint venture.
alumina refinery via a 51 km 2 We hold a 2,631 km mining lease overland conveyor.
from the Western Australian government and two sub leases 2 totalling 855 km from Alcoa of Australia Limited.
The lease expires in 2025 with a 21-year renewal available.
Suriname Kaaimangrasie mine During the first month of FY2010, The development of the Kaaimangrasie mine has a we owned 45% of the refining and Kaaimangrasie mine started nominal production capacity 38 km southeast of Paramaribo mining joint venture.
The other in November 2005. of approximately 1.2 mtpa of and 30 km east of the Paranam 55% interest was held by Suralco bauxite: there are no processing refinery, Suriname Operations delivery of bauxite a subsidiary of Alcoa World facilities at the mine.
to the refinery commenced Lateritic gibbsite-rich bauxite, Alumina and Chemicals AWAC, in July 2006.
Electricity is partly sourced residual weathering of a venture of Alcoa and Alumina from JV partner Suralco Precambrian meta-sediments Limited.
and from power generators overlain by thick sediments that run on diesel fuel.
We managed all Open-cut mine mining operations.
The mine is accessible by a joint We transferred our ownership venture-owned haul road.
The ore to Suralco on 31 July 2009. is hauled by truck over a distance of 30 km to the Paranam refinery.
Suriname Klaverblad mine During the first month of FY2010, The development of the Klaverblad mine has a nominal production capacity we owned 45% of the refining and Klaverblad mine started 23 km southeast of Paramaribo mining joint venture.
The other in July 2005. of approximately 1.7 mtpa of and 19 km east of the Paranam bauxite: there are no processing 55% interest was held by Suralco.
refinery, Suriname Delivery of bauxite to the facilities at the mine.
We managed all refinery commenced Lateritic gibbsite-rich bauxite, mining operations.
Electricity is partly sourced residual weathering of from JV partner Suralco Precambrian meta-sediments We transferred our ownership and from power generators overlain by thick sediments to Suralco on 31 July 2009. that run on diesel fuel.
Open-cut mine The mine is accessible by a joint venture-owned haul road.
The ore is hauled by truck over a distance of 19 km to the Paranam refinery.
Suriname Caramacca mine During the first month of FY2010, The development of the Caramacca mine has a we owned 45% of the refining and Caramacca mine started nominal production capacity 45 km southeast of Paramaribo mining joint venture.
The other in July 2007. of approximately 0.9 mtpa of and 37 km east of the Paranam 55% interest was held by Suralco.
bauxite: there are no processing refinery, Suriname Operations delivery of bauxite facilities at the mine.
We managed all to the refinery commenced Lateritic gibbsite-rich bauxite, mining operations.
The ore is hauled by truck over a distance of 37 km to the Paranam refinery.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | 27 2 Information on the Company continued Information on the Aluminium CSGs bauxite mining operations continued Name, location, mineralisation Ownership, operation style, type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source Suriname Coermotibo mine During the first month of FY2010, The Coermotibo mine started Coermotibo mine has a nominal we owned 45% of the Coermotibo operations in 1991. production capacity of 1.7 mtpa.
150 km east of Paranam, Suriname There are primary crushing, joint venture.
The other 55% Lateritic gibbsite-rich bauxite, interest was held by Suralco.
beneficiation plant and barge residual weathering of loading facilities.
We managed all Precambrian meta-sediments mining operations.
Coermotibo generates its own occurring on hills electricity from power generators We transferred our ownership Open-cut mine that run on diesel fuel.
The mine is accessible by joint venture-owned haul roads.
The ore is hauled to the Coermotibo crushing and loading facility and subsequently barged along the Commewijne River to the Paranam refinery.
MRN MRN is operated as an Production started in 1979 and The mine is supported by a village incorporated joint venture after the last expansion in 2003, of approximately 6,000 people Porto Trombetas, Par, Brazil between BHP Billiton 14.8%, MRN reached its current nominal which is owned and maintained Lateritic bauxite, residual Alcoa and affiliates 18.2%, Vale production capacity of 18 mtpa by MRN with all required facilities weathering of nepheline syenite 40%, Rio-Tinto Alcan 12%, of washed bauxite.
to maintain the residents in occurring primarily as gibbsite Votorantim 10% and Hydro 5%.
in a clay matrix overlain MRN holds valid mining rights Crushing facilities, long distance by thick clay sediments granted by the Brazilian Federal conveyors and the wash plant Open-cut mine Government to all its reserves are situated near the mine The mine is situated until exhaustion of the reserves.
Drying and ship loading approximately 40 km from facilities are situated close to Run of mine bauxite is mined Porto Trombetas.
Porto Trombetas the main mine village at from various plateaus, and can only be reached by air or by Porto Trombetas.
after crushing is conveyed river.
An asphalt road connects to the washing facilities, where A small airport is also maintained the mine area with the village the quality of bauxite is improved.
by MRN at Porto Trombetas.
The washed bauxite is then Power is generated on-site transported by rail, approximately by fuel oil generators.
28 km to the loading facilities All infrastructure in the area at Porto Trombetas.
Information on the Aluminium CSGs aluminium smelters and alumina refineries Operation and location Ownership, operation and title Plant type product Capacity and power source Hillside aluminium smelter We own and operate the smelter.
The Hillside smelter uses The nominal production capacity the Aluminium Pechiney of the smelter is 0.715 mtpa of Richards Bay, 200 km north of We hold freehold title over the primary aluminium.
AP35 technology to produce Durban, KwaZulu-Natal province, property, plant and equipment.
standard aluminium ingots South Africa The plants power requirements We have long-term leases over and aluminium T-Bars.
are sourced from the national the harbour facilities.
power supplier Eskom under long-term contracts.
The prices in the contract for Hillside 1 and 2 are currently linked to the LME price for aluminium, while the prices for Hillside 3 are linked to the SA and US producer price index.
Bayside aluminium smelter We own and operate the smelter.
The Bayside smelter currently The nominal potline production uses Alusuisse pre-bake capacity is 0.095 mtpa of primary Richards Bay, 200 km north of We hold freehold title over the technology to produce primary aluminium on the remaining Durban, KwaZulu-Natal province, property, plant and equipment.
Bayside uses its own Potline A.
South Africa We have long-term leases over aluminium and liquid aluminium The plants power requirements the harbour facilities.
acquired from Hillside to produce are sourced from the national the various slab products.
power supplier Eskom, under a long-term contract with prices currently linked to the LME price for aluminium.
28 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Information on the Aluminium CSGs aluminium smelters and alumina refineries continued Operation and location Ownership, operation and title Plant type product Capacity and power source The Mozal aluminium smelter The nominal production capacity Mozal aluminium smelter We hold a 47.1% interest in the Mozal joint venture and operate uses the Aluminium Pechiney of the smelter is 0.563 mtpa.
17 km from Maputo, Mozambique AP35 technology to produce the smelter.
The other 52.9% The plants power requirements is owned by Mitsubishi 25%, standard aluminium ingots.
Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa Limited 24%, and the Government of Mozambique 3.9%.
The joint venture has a 50-year right to use the land, renewable for another 50 years under a government concession.
Worsley alumina refinery We own 86% of this asset The Worsley alumina refinery The nominal production capacity through the Worsley joint venture.
uses the Bayer process to produce is 3.5 mtpa.
Approximately 55 km The other 14% is owned by Sojitz metallurgical grade alumina, northeast of Bunbury, Power and steam needed for Alumina Pty Ltd 4%, and Japan which is used as feedstock for Western Australia, Australia the refinery are provided by Alumina Associates Australia aluminium smelting.
a joint venture-owned on-site Pty Ltd 10%.
coal power station and a non-joint BHP Billiton Worsley Alumina venture-owned on-site gas fired steam power generation plant.
Pty Ltd is the manager of the joint venture on behalf of the participants.
BHP Billiton Worsley Alumina Pty Ltd has the same ownership structure as the Worsley joint venture.
We hold a 2,480 ha refinery lease from the Western Australian Government.
Paranam refinery During the first month of FY2010, The Paranam alumina refinery Capacity is 2.2 mtpa.
The Paranam we owned 45% of the Paranam utilises the Bayer process to refinery generates its own power.
The other 55% produce metallurgical grade of the joint venture was owned alumina, which is used as by Suralco.
Suralco managed the alumina refinery.
We transferred our ownership to Suralco on 31 July 2009.
Alumar The Alumar Consortium is an The alumina refinery and The refinery complex was last unincorporated joint venture that aluminium smelter use Alcoa expanded in October 2009, So Lus, Maranho, Brazil holds the smelter, refinery, ingot technology to produce alumina increasing nominal capacity plant and support facilities.
We own 40% of the aluminium The smelter has a nominal smelter.
The other 60% is owned capacity of approximately by Alcoa Aluminio SA Alcoa.
We own 36% of the alumina The electricity requirements refinery.
The other 64% is owned are supplied by Brazilian public by Alcoa and its affiliate Abalco power generation concessionaire SA 35.1% and 18.9% Electronorte, pursuant to a 20-year contract.
The consortium comprises an integrated port, an alumina refinery and an aluminium smelter together with areas for the production of anodes and aluminium ingots.
All the above are freehold interests of the joint venture participants.
