1 Accounting policies continued Defined benefit obligations are estimated by discounting expected statement.
Changes to the capitalised cost result in an adjustment future payments using market yields at the reporting date on to future depreciation and financial charges.
Adjustments to the high-quality corporate bonds in countries that have developed estimated amount and timing of future closure and rehabilitation corporate bond markets.
However, where developed corporate cash flows are a normal occurrence in light of the significant bond markets do not exist, the discount rates are selected by judgements and estimates involved.
Factors influencing those reference to national government bonds.
In both instances, changes include: the bonds are selected with terms to maturity and currency that eXi f baf gb Xfg `TgXW eXfXeiXf eXfbheVXf TaW iXf bY bcXeTg baf.
match, as closely as possible, the estimated future cash flows.
Certain Group companies provide post-retirement medical benefits eXZh Tgbel eXdh eX`Xagf TaW Xai eba`XagT to qualifying retirees.
In some cases the benefits are provided management strategies: through medical care schemes to which the Group, the employees, V[TaZXf a g[X Xfg `TgXW XkgXag TaW Vbfgf bY Tag V cTgXW the retirees and covered family members contribute.
In some activities, including the effects of inflation and movements schemes there is no funding of the benefits before retirement.
in foreign exchange rates: These schemes are recognised on the same basis as described `biX`Xagf a agXeXfg eTgXf TYYXVg aZ g[X W fVbhag eTgX Tcc XW!
above for defined benefit pension schemes.
Financial instruments Closure and rehabilitation All financial assets are initially recognised at the fair value of The mining, extraction and processing activities of the Group consideration paid.
Subsequently, financial assets are carried at normally give rise to obligations for site closure or rehabilitation.
fair value or amortised cost less impairment.
Where non-derivative Closure and rehabilitation works can include facility decommissioning financial assets are carried at fair value, gains and losses on and dismantling: removal or treatment of waste materials: site and remeasurement are recognised directly in equity unless the financial land rehabilitation.
The extent of work required and the associated assets have been designated as being held at fair value through costs are dependent on the requirements of relevant authorities profit or loss, in which case the gains and losses are recognised and the Groups environmental policies.
directly in the income statement.
Financial assets are designated as being held at fair value through profit or loss when this is necessary Provisions for the cost of each closure and rehabilitation program to reduce measurement inconsistencies for related assets and are recognised at the time that environmental disturbance occurs.
All financial liabilities other than derivatives are initially When the extent of disturbance increases over the life of an recognised at fair value of consideration received net of transaction operation, the provision is increased accordingly.
Costs included costs as appropriate initial cost and subsequently carried in the provision encompass all closure and rehabilitation activity at amortised cost.
expected to occur progressively over the life of the operation and at the time of closure in connection with disturbances at Derivatives, including those embedded in other contractual the reporting date.
Routine operating costs that may impact the arrangements but separated for accounting purposes because they ultimate closure and rehabilitation activities, such as waste material are not clearly and closely related to the host contract, are initially handling conducted as an integral part of a mining or production recognised at fair value on the date the contract is entered into process, are not included in the provision.
Costs arising from and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method unforeseen circumstances, such as the contamination caused by of recognising the resulting gain or loss on remeasurement depends unplanned discharges, are recognised as an expense and liability on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, when the event gives rise to an obligation which is probable and and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The measurement capable of reliable estimation.
of fair value is based on quoted market prices.
Where no price information is available from a quoted market source, alternative The timing of the actual closure and rehabilitation expenditure market mechanisms or recent comparable transactions, fair value is dependent upon a number of factors such as the life and nature is estimated based on the Groups views on relevant future prices, of the asset, the operating licence conditions, the principles net of valuation allowances to accommodate liquidity, modelling of our Charter and the environment in which the mine operates.
and other risks implicit in such estimates.
Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can continue for an extended period of time dependent on closure and rehabilitation Forward exchange contracts held for hedging purposes are accounted requirements.
The majority of the expenditure is expected to be paid for as either cash flow or fair value hedges.
Interest rate swaps held over periods of up to 50 years with some payments into perpetuity.
for hedging purposes are generally accounted for as fair value hedges.
Derivatives embedded within other contractual arrangements Closure and rehabilitation provisions are measured at the expected and the majority of commodity-based transactions executed through value of future cash flows, discounted to their present value and derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting.
determined according to the probability of alternative estimates of cash flows occurring for each operation.
Discount rates used are Fair value hedges specific to the country in which the operation is located.
Significant judgements and estimates are involved in forming expectations Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and of future activities and the amount and timing of the associated qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, cash flows.
Those expectations are formed based on existing together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset environmental and regulatory requirements or, if more or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Any difference stringent, Group environmental policies which give rise between the change in fair value of the derivative and the hedged to a constructive obligation.
risk constitutes ineffectiveness of the hedge and is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When provisions for closure and rehabilitation are initially recognised, the corresponding cost is capitalised as an asset, Cash flow hedges representing part of the cost of acquiring the future economic The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives benefits of the operation.
The capitalised cost of closure and that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised rehabilitation activities is recognised in property, plant and in equity in the hedging reserve.
The gain or loss relating equipment and depreciated accordingly.
The value of the provision to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the is progressively increased over time as the effect of discounting income statement.
unwinds, creating an expense recognised in financial expenses.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income Closure and rehabilitation provisions are also adjusted for statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or changes in estimates.
Those adjustments are accounted for loss.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results as a change in the corresponding capitalised cost, except where in the recognition of a non-financial asset for example, plant and a reduction in the provision is greater than the undepreciated equipment purchases or a non-financial liability, the gains and capitalised cost of the related assets, in which case the capitalised losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity cost is reduced to nil and the remaining adjustment is recognised and included in the measurement of the initial carrying amount in the income statement.
In the case of closed sites, changes of the asset or liability.
to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the income B B BH H HP B P B P BI I IL L LL L LI I IT T TO O ON A N A N AN N NN N NU U UA A AL L L R R RE E EP P PO O OR R RT T T 2 2 20 0 01 1 10 0 0 | | | 20 20 201 1 1
