3 Exchange rates appears largely complete.
In the absence of any additional inventory adjustment, improvement in end demand is essential We are exposed to exchange rate transaction risk on foreign to drive overall economic growth.
Some positive signs have currency sales and purchases as we believe that active currency emerged, with strong private investment in equipment and hedging does not provide long-term benefits to our shareholders.
software seen in some parts of the US economy, although Because a majority of our sales are denominated in US dollars, ongoing fide-leveraging and weak confidence are hampering and the US dollar plays a dominant role in our business, efforts to revive demand.
we borrow and hold surplus cash predominantly in US dollars to provide a natural hedge.
Operating costs and costs of local Despite our short-term caution, we remain positive on the equipment are influenced by fluctuations in the Australian dollar, longer-term prospects for the global economy, driven by the South African rand, Chilean peso and Brazilian real.
Foreign continuing urbanisation and industrialisation of emerging exchange gains and losses reflected in operating costs owing economies.
This path, however, will not be without volatility, to fluctuations in the abovementioned currencies relative to reflecting normal business cycles.
the US dollar may potentially offset one another.
The Australian dollar, Brazilian real and South African rand strengthened against 3.4.
6 Operating costs and capital expenditure the US dollar during FY2010, while the Chilean peso weakened.
During FY2010, raw materials and logistics costs reduced significantly, with the lagged impact of falling inputs providing We are also exposed to exchange rate translation risk in non-structural reductions to the cost base.
However, a number relation to net monetary liabilities, being our foreign currency of non-recurring costs have had an opposing impact in the denominated monetary assets and liabilities, including debt and period.
Our relentless focus on our cost base continues to be other long-term liabilities other than closure and rehabilitation a high priority, with a drive to achieve further cost efficiencies provisions at operating sites where foreign currency gains and in controllable cash costs.
losses are capitalised in property, plant and equipment.
Our commitment to long-term growth and shareholder value Details of our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations are remains unchanged, and we continued to invest strongly in contained within note 28 Financial risk management to the capital expenditure and growth projects.
Details of our growth financial statements.
projects can be found in section 3.7.
7 Exploration and development of resources We are exposed to interest rate risk on our outstanding Because most of our revenues and profits are related to our borrowings and investments.
Our policy on interest rate oil and gas and minerals operations, our results and financial exposure is for interest on our borrowings to be on a US dollar condition are directly related to the success of our exploration floating interest rate basis.
Deviation from our policy requires efforts and our ability to replace existing reserves.
However, the prior approval of our Financial Risk Management Committee, there are no guarantees that our exploration program will and is managed within our Cash Flow at Risk CFaR limit, which be successful.
When we identify an economic deposit, there is described in note 28 Financial risk management in the are often significant challenges and hurdles entailed in its financial statements.
When required under this strategy, we use development, such as negotiating rights to extract ore with interest rate swaps, including cross currency interest rate swaps, governments and landowners, design and construction to convert a fixed rate exposure to a floating rate exposure.
As at of required infrastructure, utilisation of new technologies 30 June 2010, we had US$2.6 billion of fixed interest borrowings in processing and building customer support.
that had not been swapped to floating rates, arising principally from debt raised during FY2009 that has not been swapped to 3.4.
8 Health, safety, environment and community floating rates and legacy positions that were in existence prior to the merger that created the DLC structure.
Our strategy has As the worlds largest diversified natural resources company, not changed and the remainder of the fixed interest rate debt our operations touch every corner of the globe.
We embrace raised during FY2009 has been swapped to floating rates since our responsibility to work towards making a contribution to the 30 June 2010. long-term sustainability of the communities in which we operate.
We remain committed to ensuring the safety of our people and 3.4.
5 Changes in product demand respecting the environment and communities where we work.
We remain cautious on the short-term outlook for the global We are subject to extensive regulation surrounding the health economy.
After a period of rapid recovery in the developing and safety of our people and the environment.
We make every world, economies such as Brazil and India have returned to effort to comply with the regulations and, where less stringent full output and the focus has now shifted away from supporting than our standards, exceed applicable legal and other growth, towards controlling inflation.
In China, the government requirements.
However, regulatory standards and community has implemented meaningful measures aimed at controlling expectations are constantly evolving, and as a result, we may be rapid economic expansion and asset inflation.
Fiscal policy has exposed to increased litigation, compliance costs and unforeseen been adjusted with renewed focus on the economys inevitable environmental rehabilitation expenses, despite our best efforts transition away from a dependence on investment, towards to work with governments, community groups and scientists more balanced, consumption led growth.
With this recent policy to keep pace with regulations, law and public expectations.
tightening, property sales volumes and prices have started to decline in tier one cities over the last quarter.
9 Insurance these measures as the normal continuation of Chinas economic During FY2010, we maintained an insurance program with management, we do expect Chinese Gross Domestic Product policies encompassing property damage, business interruption, GDP growth to slow towards the more sustainable level public and certain other liabilities and directors and officers of circa eight per cent in the first half of FY2011.
The program includes a combination of self-insurance Uncertainty continues to surround the developed world via subsidiary captive insurance companies, industry mutuals as governments adjust fiscal policies following a period and external market re-insurance.
Mandates are established of significant stimulus and subsequent increase in sovereign as to risk retention levels, policy cover and, where applicable, debt levels.
Significant public spending cuts and higher taxes re-insurance counter parties.
As part of our portfolio risk have been announced in Europe: however, they are yet to be fully management policy, we regularly conduct an assessment implemented, implying the inevitable negative impact on growth of maximum foreseeable loss potential, cash flow at risk, from fiscal consolidation remains ahead.
Industrial output, a core loss experience, claims received and insurance premiums measure of economic activity, remains well below previous peaks paid and will make adjustments to the balance of self-insurance despite the positive impact attributable to re-stocking that now and reinsurance as required.
