1 South African Mining Charter and 2.7.
3 Exchange controls and shareholding limits Black Economic Empowerment continued BHP Billiton Plc As outlined in section 1.5 of this Report, on 1 May 2004, There are no laws or regulations currently in force in the UK the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act 2002 that restrict the export or import of capital or the remittance MPRDA took effect, providing for state custodianship of all of dividends to non-resident holders of BHP Billiton Plcs mineral deposits and abolishing the prior system of privately shares, although the Group does operate in some other held mineral rights.
It is administered by the Department of jurisdictions where remittances of funds could be affected Minerals and Energy of South Africa.
In February 2007, the as they are subject to exchange control approvals.
There are codes of good practice were gazetted, further crystallising certain sanctions adopted by the UK Government which governments BEE strategy into a single binding document.
implement resolutions of the Security Council of the United The codes make provision for businesses to measure their Nations and sanctions imposed by the European Union against success in contributing to the economic transformation and certain countries, entities and individuals.
Any enforcement empowerment of historically disadvantaged South Africans of the sanctions by the UK Government would be initiated by HDSAs in the local economy and a scorecard comprising HM Treasury.
Such sanctions may be in force from time to time seven metrics was also developed to assist businesses in and include those against: i certain entities and or individuals achieving this success.
associated with the Burmese regime Myanmar, Cote dIvoire, The Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea North Korea, the In terms of the MPRDA, holders of mining rights granted under Democratic Republic of Congo, the Republic of Guinea, Lebanon, the previous system, known as Old Order Rights, must have Liberia, Iran, Sudan and the previous regimes of Iraq and applied to convert their rights to New Order Rights prior Yugoslavia: ii certain officials of Belarus, Syria and Zimbabwe: to 30 April 2009.
In order for the conversions to be effected, iii individuals indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal applicants are required to comply with the terms of the Black for the former Yugoslavia: and iv entities and individuals linked Economic Empowerment Act of 2003 and the Mining Charter, with the Taliban, Al-Qaeda and other terrorist organisations.
which has been published under the MPRDA.
The Mining Charter requires holders of mining rights to achieve 26 per cent There are no restrictions under BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of ownership participation by historically disadvantaged South Association or subject to the effect of any sanctions under Africans in their mining operations by 30 April 2014, of which English law that limit the right of non-resident or foreign 15 per cent needed to have been achieved by 30 April 2009. owners to hold or vote BHP Billiton Plcs shares.
We have submitted to the Department of Mineral Resources of There are certain restrictions on shareholding levels under South Africa transactions to meet the legislative requirements BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association described under and support the conversion to New Order Rights.
the heading BHP Billiton Limited below.
We support broad-based black economic empowerment in South Africa.
We believe it is imperative to both the growth BHP Billiton Limited and stability of the South African economy and the Companys The Australian Banking Foreign Exchange Regulations 1959 may strategic objectives and long-term sustainability in that country.
impose restrictions on certain financial transactions and require the consent of the Reserve Bank of Australia for the movement The principles of transformation and empowerment are of funds into and out of Australia.
Based on our searches, in line with the BHP Billiton Charter, which underscores restrictions currently apply if funds are to be paid to or received the Groups Courage to Lead Change.
from specified supporters of the former Government of the We have established a transformation and empowerment Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, specified ministers and senior technical committee comprising senior managers with diverse officials of the Government of Zimbabwe, certain specified skills to ensure our transformation and empowerment agenda entities associated with the Democratic Peoples Republic of is coordinated and comprehensive.
Korea North Korea and specified individuals associated with the Burmese regime and certain Iranian entities and persons 2.7.
2 Uranium production in Australia not already listed by the Security Council of the United Nations.
To mine, process, transport and sell uranium from In addition, legislation and regulations are in place restricting within Australia, we are required to hold possession and transactions with certain individuals or entities linked with the export permissions, which are also subject to regulation Taliban, Al-Qaeda and other terrorist organisations and certain by the Australian Government or bodies that report to the entities and individuals associated with the Democratic Republic Australian Government.
of Congo, Cote dIvoire, Eritrea, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Liberia, Sudan, Afghanistan, Rwanda and Somalia.
The controls impose To possess nuclear material, such as uranium, in Australia, certain approval and reporting requirements on transactions a Permit to Possess Nuclear Materials Possession involving such countries, entities and individuals and or assets Permit must be held pursuant to the Australian Nuclear controlled or owned by them.
Transfers into or out of Australia Non-Proliferation Safeguards Act 1987 Non-Proliferation of amounts greater than A$10,000 in any currency are also Act.
A Possession Permit is issued by the Australian subject to reporting requirements.
Safeguards and Non-Proliferation Office, an office established under the Non-Proliferation Act, which Remittances of any dividends, interest or other payments administers Australias domestic nuclear safeguards by BHP Billiton Limited to non-resident holders of requirements and reports to the Australian Government.
BHP Billiton Limiteds securities are not restricted by exchange controls or other limitations, save that in certain circumstances, To export uranium from Australia, a Permit to Export BHP Billiton may be required to withhold Australian taxes.
Natural Uranium Export Permit must be held pursuant to the Australian Customs Prohibited Exports Regulations There are no limitations, either under the laws of Australia 1958.
The Export Permit is issued by the Minister for Industry, or under the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited, on the right Tourism and Resources.
of non-residents to hold or vote BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares other than as set out below.
A special transport permit will be required under the Non-Proliferation Act by a party that transports nuclear The Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 material from one specified location to another specified the FATA restricts certain acquisitions of interests in shares location.
As we engage service providers to transport in BHP Billiton.
Generally, under the FATA, the prior approval uranium, those service providers are required to hold of the Australian Treasurer must be obtained for proposals a special transport permit.
by a foreign person either alone or together with associates to acquire control of 15 per cent or more of the voting power or issued shares in BHP Billiton Limited.
