7.3 Results, financial instruments 7.5 Remuneration and share interests and going concern 7.5.
1 Remuneration Information about our financial position and financial The policy for determining the nature and amount of emoluments results is included in the financial statements in this Annual of members of the Group Management Committee GMC Report.
The income statement shows profit attributable including the executive Director and the non-executive to BHP Billiton members of US$12,722 million compared Directors and information about the relationship between that with US$5,877 million in 2009. policy and our performance are set out in sections 6.2, 6.3 and 6.7 of this Annual Report.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, The remuneration tables contained in sections 6.4 and 6.7 are discussed in section 3 of this Annual Report.
In addition, of this Annual Report set out the remuneration of members section 5.6 and note 28 Financial risk management to the of the GMC including the executive Director and the financial statements detail the Groups capital management non-executive Directors.
objectives, its approach to financial risk management and exposure to financial risks, liquidity and borrowing facilities.
2 Directors Each of these sections is incorporated into, and forms part The tables contained in section 7.20 of this Directors Report of, this Directors Report.
set out the relevant interests in shares in BHP Billiton Limited The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a and BHP Billiton Plc of the Directors who held office during reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources FY2010, at the beginning and end of FY2010, and in relation to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
to all Directors in office as at the date of this Directors Report, Therefore they continue to adopt the going-concern basis their relevant interests in shares in BHP Billiton Limited and of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
BHP Billiton Plc as at the date of this Directors Report.
No rights or options over shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are held by any of the non-executive Directors.
Interests held by 7.4 Directors the executive Director under share and option plans are set out in the tables showing interests in incentive plans contained in The Directors who served at any time during or since the section 6.4.
Further details of all options end of the financial year were Don Argus, Marius Kloppers, and rights held as at the date of this Directors Report including Paul Anderson, Alan Boeckmann, Malcolm Broomhead, those issued during or since the end of FY2010, and of shares John Buchanan, Carlos Cordeiro, David Crawford, E Gail issued during or since the end of FY2010 upon exercise of fide Planque, Carolyn Hewson, David Jenkins, David Morgan, options and rights, are set out in note 30 Key Management Wayne Murdy, Jacques Nasser, Keith Rumble and John Schubert.
Personnel in the financial statements of this Annual Report.
Further details of the Directors of BHP Billiton Limited and Except as disclosed in these tables, there have been no other BHP Billiton Plc are set out in section 4.1 of this Annual Report.
changes in the Directors interests over shares or options These details include the period for which each Director in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc between held office up to the date of this Directors Report, their 30 June 2010 and the date of this Directors Report.
qualifications, experience and particular responsibilities, the directorships held in other listed companies since We have not made available to any Director any interest in 1 July 2007, and the period for which each directorship a registered scheme.
The former Directors of BHP Limited participated in a retirement David Morgan retired as a Director of BHP Billiton Limited plan under which they were entitled to receive a payment on and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 24 November 2009, retirement calculated by reference to years of service.
This plan having been a Director since January 2008. was closed on 24 October 2003, and benefits accrued to that date are held by BHP Billiton Limited and will be paid on David Jenkins retired as a Director of BHP Billiton Limited retirement.
Further information about this plan and its and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 26 November 2009, closure are set out in section 6.7.
having been a Director since March 2000.
Paul Anderson retired as a Director of BHP Billiton Limited 7.5.
3 GMC members and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 31 January 2010, The table contained in section 7.21 of this Directors Report having been a Director since June 2006. sets out the relevant interests held by members of the GMC E Gail fide Planque retired as a Director of BHP Billiton Limited other than Directors in shares of BHP Billiton Limited and and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 31 January 2010, BHP Billiton Plc at the beginning and end of FY2010, and at having been a Director since October 2005. the date of this Directors Report.
Interests held by members of the GMC under share and option plans are set out in the tables Don Argus retired as Chairman and a Director of showing interests in incentive plans contained in section 6.4.
3 BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from of this Annual Report.
Further details of all options and rights 30 March 2010, having been a Director of BHP Limited since held as at the date of this Directors Report including those November 1996, Chairman of BHP Limited since March 1999 and issued during or since the end of FY2010, and of shares issued a Director and Chairman of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton during or since the end of FY2010 upon exercise of options Plc since June 2001.
Jacques Nasser assumed the Chairmanship and rights, are set out in note 30 Key Management Personnel of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc on 31 March 2010. in the financial statements of this Annual Report.
Malcolm Broomhead and Carolyn Hewson were each appointed as a Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 31 March 2010.
The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees held during the year and each Directors attendance at those meetings are set out in sections 5.3.
