2 Information on the Company continued Development projects We have seven production assets: Escondida Worsley Efficiency and Growth Project Our 57.5 per cent owned and operated Escondida mine is the In May 2008, we announced approval for an expansion project largest and one of the lowest-cost copper producers in the world.
to lift capacity of the Worsley refinery from 3.5 million tonnes In FY2010, our share of Escondida production was 448,111, per annum of alumina to 4.6 million tonnes per annum tonnes of payable copper in concentrate and 174,199 tonnes 100 per cent capacity of alumina through expanded mining of copper cathode.
Current reserves will support mining for operations at Boddington, additional refinery capacity and a further 30 years at current production rates.
Availability of upgraded port facilities.
The project is budgeted to cost key inputs like power and water supply at competitive prices US$1.9 billion our share, with first production anticipated is an important focus at Escondida.
To ensure security of supply in first half of CY2011 and with mechanical completion in the and competitive power costs in the long term, we supported the second half of CY2011.
To date we have spent US$1.2 billion.
construction of an LNG facility to supply gas to the Northern Guinea Alumina grid system, which has been operating since June 2010 and have signed-off-take agreements underwriting the construction of We have a one-third interest in a joint venture that is undergoing a 460 megawatt coal-fired power plant, which is scheduled for a feasibility study into the construction of a 10 million tonnes completion in CY2011.
To address limitations on the availability per annum bauxite mine, an alumina refinery with processing of water, we carefully manage our use and re-use of available capacity exceeding 3.3 million tonnes per annum and associated water, and explore for alternative sources including desalination infrastructure approximately 110 kilometres from the port of seawater.
During FY2009, Escondida experienced an electrical motor 2.2.
4 Base Metals Customer Sector Group failure at the SAG Mill in the Laguna Seca concentrator plant.
Our Base Metals CSG is one of the worlds top producers This impacted the throughput at the plant given the increased of copper, silver, lead and uranium, and a leading producer of maintenance requirements.
A permanent repair was successfully zinc.
Our portfolio of large, low-cost mining operations includes completed in the first quarter of FY2010.
the Escondida mine in Chile, which is the worlds largest single Olympic Dam producer of copper, and Olympic Dam in South Australia, which is already a major producer of copper and uranium and has the While it is already a significant producer of copper cathode potential to be significantly expanded.
and uranium oxide, and a refiner of smaller amounts of gold and silver bullion, we are continuing to explore a series of In recent years, we have commissioned the Spence copper mine staged development options that would make our wholly owned and the Escondida Sulphide Leach projects.
Our total copper Olympic Dam operation one of the worlds largest producers production in FY2010 was 1.0 million tonnes.
In addition of copper, the largest producer of uranium and a significant to conventional mine development, we continue to pursue producer of gold see Development projects below.
advanced treatment technologies, such as the leaching of low-grade chalcopyrite ores, which we believe has the During the second quarter of FY2010, the haulage system potential to recover copper from ores which were previously in the Clark Shaft at Olympic Dam was damaged.
Ore hoisting uneconomic to treat.
operated at approximately 25 per cent of capacity until the fourth quarter of FY2010, when hoisting from the Clark Shaft We market five primary products: resumed achieving a return to full production following the VbccXe VbaVXageTgXf completion of repair works.
Production in FY2010 was impacted VbccXe VTg[bWXf due to this incident with Olympic Dam producing 103,253 tonnes heTa h` bk WX of copper cathode, 2,279 tonnes of uranium oxide, 65,494 XTW VbaVXageTgXf ounces of refined gold and 500,346 ounces of refined silver.
Antamina We sell most of our copper, lead and zinc concentrates to We own 33.75 per cent of Antamina, a large, low-cost, long-life smelters under long-term volume contracts with prices based copper zinc mine in Peru.
Opened in 2001, its reserves will on the LME price for the contained metal three or four months support mining at current rates for a further 20 years.
Our share after shipment, less treatment charges and refining charges of Antaminas FY2010 production was 98,600 tonnes of copper collectively referred to as TCRCs that we negotiate with the in concentrate, and 135,573 tonnes of zinc in concentrate.
smelters on an annual or bi-annual basis.
Some of the ores we In addition to its primary copper and zinc concentrate products, mine contain quantities of silver and gold, which remain in the Antamina also produces smaller amounts of molybdenum and base metal concentrates we sell.
We receive payment credits lead bismuth concentrate.
for the silver and gold recovered by our customers in the smelting and refining process.
Spence We sell most of our copper cathode production to rod and brass We completed our wholly owned greenfield Spence copper mills and casting plants around the world under annual contracts mine development in Chile and began ramping up cathode with premiums to LME prices.
We sell uranium oxide to electricity production in December 2006.
During FY2010, we produced generating utilities, principally in western Europe, North America 159,604 tonnes of copper cathode which was impacted and north Asia.
Uranium is typically sold under long-term by industrial action during the second quarter.
A significant portion of production is sold into fixed current reserves will support mining at current rates for price contracts although increasingly sales are based on flexible a further 16 years.
Cerro Colorado Our wholly owned Cerro Colorado mine in Chile remains a significant producer of copper cathode, although production levels have declined in recent years as grades have declined.
Production in FY2010 was 85,200 tonnes of copper cathode.
Our current mine plan sees production continuing until FY2021, although we are currently evaluating the extent of hypogene mineralisation that may support further extension options.
30 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Pinto Valley 2.2.
4 Base Metals Customer Sector Group continued As a result of the global economic slowdown in FY2009, Cannington we made the decision to stop sulphide mining and milling Our wholly owned Cannington mine in northwest Queensland operations at our Pinto Valley Mine located in Arizona, US, has grown to become the worlds largest and, we believe, placing the operations in care and maintenance.
one of the lowest-cost producers of silver and lead.
In FY2010, Cannington produced concentrates containing 245,445 tonnes We continue to produce copper cathode at the Pinto Valley of lead, 62,706 tonnes of zinc and approximately 37 million site and the neighbouring Miami Unit from our residual solvent ounces of silver.
The current mine plan sees production extraction electrowinning SXEW operations.
Current reserves continuing until 2019. would support mining operations for approximately four years.
Information on the Base Metals CSGs mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
2 and reserve tables see section 2.14.2.
Name, location, mineralisation Ownership, operation style, type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source COPPER Escondida The mine is owned by Minera Original construction of the Escondida has two processing Escondida Limitada and operated operation was completed in 1990. streams: two concentrator plants Atacama Desert, at an altitude by BHP Billiton.
The project has since undergone in which high-quality copper of approximately 3,100 m various expansion projects at an concentrate is extracted from and 170 km southeast We own 57.5% of Minera additional cost of US$3.0 billion sulphide ore through a flotation of Antofagasta, Chile Escondida.
extraction process: and two owned by affiliates of Rio Tinto The Escondida mining complex solvent extraction plants in 30%, the JECO Corporation In June 2006, the Escondida includes the Escondida and which leaching, solvent extraction 10%, a consortium represented Sulphide Leach copper project Escondida Norte mineral deposits and electrowinning are used by Mitsubishi Corporation 7%, achieved first production.
The cost that are adjacent, but distinct, to produce copper cathode.
Mitsubishi Materials Corporation of the project was US$1.0 billion supergene-enriched porphyry 1%, Nippon Mining and Metals 100% terms.
Nominal production copper deposits 2% and Jeco 2 Ltd 2.5%.
capacity is 3.2 mtpa of copper Two open-cut pits concentrate and 330,000 tpa Minera Escondida Limitada holds The mine is accessible of copper cathode.
a mining concession from the by public road.
Chilean state that remains valid Separate transmission circuits Copper cathode is transported indefinitely subject to payment provide power for the Escondida by privately-owned rail line of annual fees.
These transmission to the Antofagasta port lines, which are connected government-operated to Chiles northern power grid, or Mejillones port are Group-owned.
is purchased under contracts Copper concentrate is transported with local generating companies.
by Company-owned pipeline to its Coloso port facilities.
Spence We own and operate Spence received Board approval Spence has facilities to the mine 100%.
for execution in October 2004. support the open-cut mining Atacama Desert, 150 km The cost was US$1.1 billion.
operations and ore processing northeast of Antofagasta, Chile We hold a mining concession crushing operations.
from the Chilean state that First ore was crushed in A porphyry copper deposit that remains valid indefinitely subject September 2006 with first copper The crushed oxide and sulphide contains significant copper oxide to payment of annual fees.
produced in December 2006. ores are leached on separate atacamite and chrysocolla dynamic on-off leach pads.
overlying the supergene sulphide Acid leaching is applied to oxide enrichment zone ores and bio-leaching is applied Open-cut mine to supergene sulphide ores.
The mine is accessible by public Solvent extraction consists road and company-owned of four trains in a series-parallel rail access.
configuration, with extraction Copper cathode produced stages for both oxide and sulphide is transported by rail line Pregnant Leach Solution.
A single to Mejillones port privately electrowinning plant produces operated and to Antofagasta the copper cathode.
port on an exceptional basis.
Nominal capacity is 200,000 tpa of copper cathode.
Electrical power is supplied via a Company-owned voltage transmission line connected to Chiles northern power grid.
Electricity is purchased under contracts from a local generating company.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | 31 2 Information on the Company continued Information on the Base Metals CSGs mining operations continued Name, location, mineralisation Ownership, operation style, type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source COPPER continued Cerro Colorado We own and operate the mine.
Commercial production at Cerro Colorados facilities Cerro Colorado commenced for this process include two Atacama Desert at an altitude We hold a mining concession from in June 1994. primary, secondary and tertiary of 2,600 m, 120 km east the Chilean state that remains crushers, leaching pads and of Iquique, Chile valid indefinitely subject to Expansions took place in 1995 solvent extraction and payment of annual fees.
and 1998 to increase the mines A supergene porphyry copper electrowinning plants.
crushing capacity, leach pad deposit that consists of a area and mine fleet.
With these Electricity is supplied sulphide enrichment zone expansions, production was under long-term contracts overlayed by oxide ore increased to 100,000 tpa.
to the facilities through the chrysocolla brochantite Production was then increased northern Chile power grid.
Open-cut mine to the nameplate capacity of The mine is accessible 120,000 tpa with optimisation by public road.
Copper cathode production is Due to lower copper grades trucked to the port at Iquique, of the ore the production is which is privately operated.
Pinto Valley We own and operate 100% Pinto Valley was acquired through Pinto Valley facilities include of Pinto Valley and we hold the acquisition of Magma Copper two SXEW operations at the Located in the US approximately title to the land.
The sulphide Pinto Valley and Miami sites.
125 km east of Phoenix, Arizona.
mining operations were Concentrate production facilities A porphyry copper deposit of discontinued in 1998.
In October in care and maintenance include low-grade primary mineralisation 2007, the mining and milling a primary crusher, secondary Open-pit mine Pinto Valley operations were restarted.
and tertiary crushers, six ball In-situ leach Miami Unit As a result of the global economic mills and copper concentrate and The mine is accessible by public slowdown, Pinto Valley mining molybdenum flotation circuits.
Current copper cathode and milling operations were Power is supplied to the site production is trucked to domestic stopped in January 2009. by the Salt River Project.
During cessation of the mining and milling operations, residual SXEW production from both the Pinto Valley site and neighbouring Miami Unit continues to produce small amounts of copper cathode.
COPPER URANIUM Olympic Dam We own and operate Production of copper began in The underground mine extracts Olympic Dam.
Between 1989 and 1995, copper uranium ore and hauls 560 km northwest of Adelaide, the production rate was the ore by an automated train South Australia, Australia The mining lease was granted by increased, ultimately raising and trucking network feeding the Government of South Australia A large poly-metallic deposit of the ore mining capacity to underground crushing, storage by an Act of Parliament for the the iron oxide-copper-gold style approximately 3 mtpa.
period of 50 years from 1986, with of mineralisation a right of extension for a further During 1997 through 1999 a The processing plant consists Underground mine period of 50 years in accordance major expansion was conducted of two grinding circuits in which The mine is accessible by public with the Roxby Downs Indenture to raise throughput from 3 mtpa high-quality copper concentrate road.
Copper cathode is Ratification Act 1982. to 9 mtpa.
is extracted from sulphide ore transported by public road through a flotation extraction In 2002, Olympic Dam completed to public ports.
The concentrate is fed an optimisation project.
A new is transported by public road into an Outokumpu flash furnace copper solvent extraction plant and rail to public ports.
having a nominal concentrate was commissioned in the first smelting capacity of 450 ktpa to quarter of 2004. produce copper anodes, then into We acquired Olympic Dam as part an ISA electro-refinery to produce of our acquisition of WMC in 2005. copper cathodes and slimes treated to recover gold and silver.
The flotation tailings are further processed through leaching and solvent extraction to produce electrowon copper cathode and high-grade uranium oxide concentrates.
Power for the Olympic Dam operations is supplied via a 275 kV powerline from Port Augusta, transmitted by ElectraNet.
32 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Information on the Base Metals CSGs mining operations continued Name, location, mineralisation Ownership, operation style, type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source COPPER ZINC continued Antamina Antamina is owned and operated The Antamina project achieved The principal project facilities by a joint venture company called mechanical completion in May include a primary crusher, a Located in the Andes mountain Compaa Minera Antamina S. A.
2001 more than four months nominal 94,000 tpd concentrator, range, North Central Peru in which we hold a 33.75% ahead of the original schedule.
copper and zinc flotation circuits at an altitude of 4,300 m, interest.
The other joint venture The project began commercial and a bismuth moly cleaning 270 km north of Lima partners are Xstrata 33.75%, production on 1 October circuit, a 300 km concentrate A zoned porphry skarn deposit Teck Cominco Limited 22.5% 2001 ahead of schedule pipeline with single-stage with central Cu-only ores and and Mitsubishi Corp 10%.
and under budget, following pumping, and port facilities an outer band of Cu-Zn ore zone two years of exploration and at Huarmey.
The pipeline design Antamina holds mining rights Open-cut mine three years of construction throughput is 2.3 dry mtpa.
from the Peruvian state over its The mine is accessible at a capital cost of US$2.3 billion.
These rights Power to the mine site is by a Company-maintained can be held indefinitely, being supplied under long-term 115 km access road.
contingent upon the annual contracts with individual power A 300 km pipeline transports payment of licence fees and producers through a 58 km the copper and zinc concentrates the supply of information on 220 kV transmission line, to the port of Huarmey.
which is connected to Perus The molybdenum and lead national energy grid.
bismuth concentrates are transported by truck to different locations for shipment.
SILVER, LEAD AND ZINC Cannington We own and operate Cannington.
The deposit was discovered in The beneficiation plant consists 1990.
Concentrate production of a primary grinding circuit 300 km southeast of Mt Isa, The Cannington deposit commenced in 1997.
AG mill, secondary grinding Queensland, Australia is contained within mining circuit tower mill, pre-flotation leases granted by the State In February 2003, the Cannington A Broken Hill-type circuit, fine lead flotation circuit, of Queensland in 1994 and Growth Project commenced to silver-lead-zinc sulphide deposit coarse lead flotation circuit, zinc which expire in 2029. improve mill throughput and Underground mine flotation circuit, concentrate and metal recovery.
The project was The mine is accessible tailings thickening, lead and zinc completed during FY2005.
by public road and a concentrate leaching circuits, Company-owned airstrip.
lead and zinc concentrate Product is transported 187 km by filtration circuit and a paste plant.
road to Yurbi, a Company-owned Nominal capacity is 3.2 mtpa.
loading facility, where it is loaded A power station, consisting of on public rail and transported a combination of gas-fired and to a public port at which we diesel-fired engines, located lease a berth.
at Cannington, is operated under contract to supply power solely to Cannington.
