Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the with applicable law and regulations.
References to the Group and financial position of the parent company and enable them to parent company financial statements are made in relation to the ensure that its financial statements comply with the UK Companies Group and individual parent company financial statements Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps of BHP Billiton Plc.
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance that complies with that law and those regulations.
with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Accepted Accounting Practice.
of the corporate and financial information included on the The Group financial statements must, in accordance with IFRS companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the as adopted by the EU and applicable law, present fairly the preparation and dissemination of financial statements financial position and performance of the Group: references in the may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
UK Companies Act 2006 to such financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements must, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the parent company for the financial year.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: fX XVg fh gTU X TVVbhag aZ cb V Xf TaW g[Xa Tcc l g[X` Vbaf fgXag l. ` T X ]hWZX`Xagf TaW Xfg `TgXf g[Tg TeX eXTfbaTU X TaW cehWXag.
Ybe g[X :ebhc Y aTaV T fgTgX`Xagf fgTgX j[Xg[Xe g[Xl [TiX UXXa prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: Y be g[X cTeXag Vb`cTal Y aTaV T fgTgX`Xagf fgTgX j[Xg[Xe applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and c eXcTeX g[X Y aTaV T fgTgX`Xagf ba g[X Zb aZ VbaVXea UTf f ha Xff it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
