5 Corporate Governance Statement continued Tenure 5.3.
4 Chairman The Chairman of the Group is responsible for leading the Board The Board has a policy requiring non-executive Directors who have served on the Board for nine years or more from the date and ensuring that it is operating to the highest governance standards.
The Chairman is charged with building an effective, of their first election to stand for annual re-election after the conclusion of their current term.
high performing and collegial team of Directors and ensuring that they operate effectively as a Board.
Two Directors, David Crawford and John Schubert, have each The Chairman, Jacques Nasser, is considered by the Board to served on the Board for more than nine years from the date be independent.
He was appointed Chairman of the Group of their first election.
Both Mr Crawford and Dr Schubert are from 31 March 2010 and has been a non-executive Director standing for re-election at the 2010 Annual General Meetings, of the Group since 6 June 2006.
Mr Nasser was last re-elected having undergone a formal performance assessment.
Although at the 2008 Annual General Meetings and will stand for Mr Crawford was first appointed to the BHP Limited Board re-election in 2010. in 1994, the Board considers that he makes a significant contribution to the work of the Board, in particular in his role The Chairmans role includes: as Risk and Audit Committee RAC Chairman.
The Board does Xafhe aZ g[Tg g[X ce aV c Xf TaW cebVXffXf bY g[X 5bTeW TeX not believe that either Mr Crawfords or Dr Schuberts tenure maintained, including the provision of accurate, timely and materially interferes with their ability to act in the best interests clear information: of the Group.
The Board also believes that each of them has XaVbheTZ aZ WXUTgX TaW VbafgehVg iX five g V f`.
retained independence of character and judgement and f Xgg aZ TZXaWTf Ybe `XXg aZf bY g[X 5bTeW a Vba]haVg ba has not formed associations with management or others with the CEO and Group Company Secretary, that focus that might compromise their ability to exercise independent on the strategic direction and performance of our business: judgement or act in the best interests of the Group.
X afhe aZ g[Tg TWXdhTgX g `X f TiT TU X Ybe W fVhff ba The Board previously determined that it considered that it was on strategic issues: in the Groups best interests for the succession planning process XTW aZ g[X 5bTeW TaW aW i WhT 7 eXVgbe cXeYbe`TaVX for the Board Chairman and the RAC Chairman to be conducted assessments: sequentially.
Following completion of the succession planning fcXT aZ TaW TVg aZ Ybe g[X 5bTeW TaW eXceXfXag aZ g[X process for Board Chairman, during the year, the Board continued Board to shareholders: the succession planning process for the RAC Chairman.
Given the complexity and size of the Group, the succession planning ceXfXag aZ f[TeX[b WXef i Xjf gb g[X 5bTeW.
process involves careful consideration of the skills, knowledge Y TV gTg aZ g[X eX Tg baf[ c UXgjXXa g[X 5bTeW TaW g[X 68B!
and experience required on the Board, in particular the skills The Board considers that none of Mr Nassers other commitments and experience required to properly fulfil the duties of the set out in section 4.1 of this Annual Report interfere with RAC Chairman.
In addition, the Board strongly believes an the discharge of his responsibilities to the Group.
The Board orderly succession and transition for this key role is in the best is satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to serve interests of the Group and its shareholders.
For these reasons, the Group effectively.
Mr Crawford is standing for re-election at the 2010 Annual General Meetings with a view to retiring as RAC Chairman The Group does not have a Deputy Chairman, but has in 2011, when succession planning and transition is complete.
identified John Schubert to act as Chairman should the The succession planning process for the role of Chairman need arise at short notice.
John Buchanan is the Senior of the RAC is well progressed and the Board expects to make Independent Director for BHP Billiton Plc.
an announcement in relation to this matter later in FY2011.
5 Independence Retirement plan The Board is committed to ensuring a majority of Directors As former Directors of BHP Limited, David Crawford and are independent.
John Schubert participated in a retirement plan approved by Process to determine independence shareholders in 1989.
The plan was closed on 24 October 2003 and benefits accrued to that date, together with interest earned The Board has a policy that it uses to determine the on the benefits, have been preserved and will be paid on independence of its Directors.
This determination is carried retirement.
The Board does not believe that the independence out upon appointment, annually and at any other time of any participating Director is compromised as a result where the circumstances of a Director change such as of this plan.
Relationships and associations David Crawford was the National Chairman of KPMG in Australia.
A copy of the Policy on Independence of Directors is He retired in June 2001 and has no ongoing relationship with available at www.
KPMG was a joint auditor of Billiton Plc prior to the merger with BHP Limited and of BHP Billiton up to 2003 and The policy provides that the test of independence is whether the sole auditor of BHP Billiton from December 2003.
The Board the Director is: independent of management and any business considers this matter on an annual basis and does not consider or other relationship that could materially interfere with the Mr Crawfords independence to be compromised.
The Board exercise of objective, unfettered or independent judgement by considers Mr Crawfords financial acumen to be important in the Director or the Directors ability to act in the best interests the discharge of the Boards responsibilities.
Accordingly, his of the BHP Billiton Group.
membership of the Board and Chairmanship of the Risk and Where a Director is considered by the Board to be independent, Audit Committee is considered by the Board to be appropriate but is affected by circumstances that may give rise to a perception and desirable.
3, that the Director is not independent, the Board has undertaken a succession planning process is underway for the Risk to explain the reasons why it reached its conclusion.
In applying and Audit Committee Chairman.
the independence test, the Board considers relationships with management, major shareholders, subsidiary and associated companies and other parties with whom the Group transacts business against predetermined materiality thresholds, all of which are set out in the policy.
A summary of the factors that may be perceived to impact the independence of Directors is set out below.
