2 Information on the Company continued to acquire an economic or security interest in assets within 2.11.2 DLC structure continued the scope of the joint venture: which may adversely impact Class Rights Actions on its benefits: which is likely to be inconsistent with completion In the case of certain actions in relation to which the two of the joint venture: or which might require a restructuring of it.
bodies of shareholders may have divergent interests referred The Framework Agreement provides for a mutual break fee to as Class Rights Actions, the company wishing to carry out of US$275.5 million payable in the event that either party: the Class Rights Action requires the prior approval of the announces that it does not intend to proceed with the joint shareholders in the other company voting separately and, venture: after satisfaction of the key regulatory approvals, where appropriate, the approval of its own shareholders fails to recommend the joint venture to its shareholders or voting separately.
Depending on the type of Class Rights fails to take the steps necessary to obtain the approval of Action undertaken, the approval required is either an ordinary its shareholders: or breaches the exclusivity provisions.
It also or special resolution of the relevant company.
set out core principles that would apply to the establishment These voting arrangements are secured through the of the joint venture.
constitutional documents of the two companies, the BHP Billiton Description of binding agreements Sharing Agreement, the Special Voting Shares Deed and rights attaching to a specially created Special Voting Share issued On 5 December 2009, BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto signed binding by each company and held in each case by a Special Voting agreements that set out the terms that will regulate the Company.
The shares in the Special Voting Companies are held establishment of the joint venture and its ongoing operation.
legally and beneficially by Law Debenture Trust Corporation Plc.
Those terms are consistent with the core principles set out in the Framework Agreement, except that the joint marketing Cross guarantees of 15 per cent of output contemplated by the core principles BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have each executed will not take place: all output will be sold by BHP Billiton and a Deed Poll Guarantee, pursuant to which creditors entitled Rio Tinto separately.
to the benefit of the BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee Scope of joint venture and the BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee will, to the extent possible, be placed in the same position as if the relevant The joint venture will encompass the management and operation debts were owed by both BHP Billiton Limited and of the economic interests of BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto in all BHP Billiton Plc combined.
current and future iron ore operations in Western Australia, including exploration interests, leases, mines, rail lines, ports Restrictions on takeovers of one company only and associated infrastructure, and all related employees and The BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc contractors.
However, the joint venture will not include Articles of Association have been drafted to ensure that, except BHP Billitons Hot Briquetted Iron plant HBI or Rio Tintos with the consent of the Board, a person cannot gain control of interest in HIsmelt, and its application to other secondary one company without having made an equivalent offer to the processing activities will be limited.
Marketing activities and shareholders of both companies on equivalent terms.
Sanctions business development outside Western Australia are also for breach of these provisions would include withholding of outside the scope of the joint venture.
dividends, voting restrictions and the compulsory divestment The parties to the joint venture will share the economic burden of shares to the extent a shareholder and its associates exceed of all related liabilities, other than material undisclosed liabilities the relevant threshold.
with a minimum claim of US$300 million and a maximum claim period of 10 years and certain pre-July 2009 tax liabilities.
2.12 Material contracts It is intended that the joint venture will continue in perpetuity.
2.12.1 DLC agreements Conditions precedent On 29 June 2001, BHP Billiton Limited then known as The binding agreements remain subject to satisfaction of BHP Limited and BHP Billiton Plc then known as Billiton Plc certain conditions precedent, including satisfying relevant merged by way of a DLC structure.
To effect the DLC, BHP Limited anti-trust requirements, obtaining Australian foreign investment and Billiton Plc as they were then known entered into the clearance from the Commonwealth Treasurer and favourable following agreements designed to place the shareholders rulings from the Australian Taxation Office and State revenue of both companies in a position where they effectively have authorities, obtaining certain other government approvals, an interest in a single group that combines the assets, and and obtaining the approval of BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto is subject to all the liabilities, of both companies: shareholders.
The Framework Agreement and the binding agreements will terminate if the conditions precedent BHP Billiton Sharing Agreement are not satisfied by 31 December 2010 unless extended BHP Billiton Special Voting Shares Deed by agreement of Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton.
BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee.
Financial adjustments The effect of each of these agreements and the manner in which The economic interests of BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto in the they operate are described in section 2.11 of this Report.
It is joint venture will be equal.
The joint venture is a contractual expected that these agreements will remain in effect until such arrangement and the parties will not be acquiring shares in time as a change in control of the BHP Billiton Group may occur.
each others iron ore companies or legal or beneficial interests in each others iron ore assets.
The parties will obtain an 2.12.2 Proposed iron ore production joint venture economic exposure to each others iron ore production assets with Rio Tinto through each of them subscribing for debentures in an interposed company in the others group that holds shares in the others Iron Ore Joint Venture Framework Agreement asset holding subsidiaries.
On 5 June 2009, BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto signed a Framework To equalise the net value of the parties asset contributions to Agreement to establish an iron ore production joint venture the joint venture, BHP Billiton will also subscribe US$5.8 billion combining the operation and management of their respective in cash for additional debentures in the Rio Tinto interposed Western Australian iron ore production assets.
This amount will be inflated from 1 July 2009 to The Framework Agreement contains exclusivity provisions completion at a rate of 6.5 per cent per annum, and will also preventing either party from soliciting or engaging in discussions be adjusted to reflect equalisation of net cash flows from with respect to a proposal that in broad terms enables a person 1 July 2009 in the manner described below.
