4 Board of Directors and Group Management Committee continued 4.2 Group Management Committee Marius Kloppers BE Chem, MBA, PhD Materials Science, 48 Alberto Calderon PhD Econ, M Phil Econ, JD Law, BA Econ, 50 Chief Executive Officer and executive Director Group Executive and Chief Commercial Officer Chairman of the Group Management Committee Member of the Group Management Committee Marius Kloppers has been active in the mining and resources Alberto Calderon joined the Group as President Diamonds industry since 1993 and was appointed Chief Executive Officer and Specialty Products in February 2006 and was appointed in October 2007.
He was previously Chief Commercial Officer, to his current position as Chief Commercial Officer in July 2007.
Chief Marketing Officer, Group Executive of Billiton Plc, Chief Prior to this, he was Chief Executive Officer of Cerrejn Coal Executive of Samancor Manganese and held various positions Company and President of the oil company Ecopetrol.
In the at Billiton Aluminium, among them Chief Operating Officer early 1990s he was President of the Power Company of Bogot and General Manager of Hillside Aluminium.
and held various senior roles in investment banking and in the Colombian Government.
Andrew Mackenzie BSc Geology, PhD Chemistry, 53 Marcus Randolph BSc, MBA, 54 Group Executive and Chief Executive Non-Ferrous Group Executive and Chief Executive Ferrous and Coal Member of the Group Management Committee Member of the Group Management Committee Andrew Mackenzie joined BHP Billiton in November 2008 Marcus Randolph was previously Chief Organisation Development in his current position as Chief Executive Non-Ferrous.
Officer, President Diamonds and Specialty Products, Chief His prior career included time with Rio Tinto, where he Development Officer Minerals and Chief Strategic Officer Minerals was Chief Executive of Diamonds and Minerals, and with BP, for BHP Billiton.
His prior career includes Chief Executive Officer, where he held a number of senior roles, including Group Vice First Dynasty Mines, Mining and Minerals Executive, Rio Tinto Plc, President for Technology and Engineering and Group Vice Director of Acquisitions and Strategy, Kennecott Inc, General President for Chemicals.
He is a non-executive Director Manager Corporacin Minera Nor Peru, Asarco Inc, and various of Centrica plc.
mine operating positions in the US with Asarco Inc.
He has been in his current position as Chief Executive Ferrous and Coal since July 2007.
Alex Vanselow BComm, Wharton AMP, 48 Karen Wood BEd, LLB Hons, 54 Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer Group Executive and Chief People Officer Member of the Group Management Committee Member of the Group Management Committee and Chairman of the Investment Committee and and Chairman of the Global Ethics Advisory Panel Financial Risk Management Committee Karen Woods previous positions with BHP Billiton were Chief Alex Vanselow joined the Group in 1989 and was appointed Governance Officer, Group Company Secretary and Special Chief Financial Officer in March 2006.
He was previously Adviser and Head of Group Secretariat.
She is a member of the President Aluminium, Chief Financial Officer of Aluminium, Takeovers Panel Australia, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Orinoco Secretaries and a member of the Law Council of Australia and Iron CA, and Manager Accounting and Control BHP Iron Ore. the Law Institute of Victoria.
Before joining BHP Billiton, she His prior career was with Arthur Andersen.
was General Counsel and Company Secretary for Bonlac Foods Limited.
She has been in her current position as Chief People Officer since July 2007.
J Michael Yeager BSc, MSc, 57 Group Executive and Chief Executive Petroleum Member of the Group Management Committee Mike Yeager joined the Group in April 2006 as Chief Executive Petroleum after 25 years with Mobil and later ExxonMobil.
He was previously Vice President, ExxonMobil Development Company, and held the roles of Senior Vice President, Imperial Oil Ltd and Chief Executive Officer, Imperial Oil Resources, Vice President Africa, ExxonMobil Production Company, Vice President Europe, ExxonMobil Production Company and President, Mobil Exploration and Production in the US.
