We believe that the recovery momentum of the major economies 1.3 Chief Executive Officers Report will remain uncertain as the impact of fiscal and monetary Financial year 2010 was a year that presented a broad mix stimuli fades.
Therefore, we are still cautious in our short-term of challenges and achievements.
Despite continued volatility view of the economy.
and ongoing uncertainty across the global economy, BHP Billiton In the longer term, we are encouraged by the fundamentals delivered a strong operational and financial performance.
underpinning sustained growth in China and India, which will It is our consistent and long-term strategy of focusing on a continue to drive a strong demand for our products.
This, along portfolio of upstream, tier one, low-cost assets diversified by with our strong balance sheet, supports our capacity for future commodity, market and geography that underpinned our ability growth.
We have extensive experience operating in emerging to overcome the challenges during the year.
I am encouraged resource regions and we have the capability to capture by the Groups performance, which is testament to our focus additional opportunities as they arise.
on creating shareholder value in the long term.
Our disciplined approach to capital deployment has enabled We are a leading global resources company and our successes BHP Billiton to both invest in the expansion of high-quality and achievements are significant.
However, we cannot say assets and further diversify our portfolio by commodity, we are truly successful until we eliminate fatalities and serious market and geography, consistent with our unchanged strategy.
The acquisition of Athabasca Potash earlier this year ensures our Group has access to more than 14,000 square kilometres This year we continued to make progress in reducing the number of prospective exploration ground in the world-class of injuries, though we did not meet our targets.
It is with great Saskatchewan potash basin.
Our all-cash bid to acquire Potash sadness that I report to you that five of our colleagues lost their Corporation of Saskatchewan, the worlds largest integrated lives at work during the year and I personally extend my fertiliser company and worlds largest producer of potash by condolences to the families and friends of those individuals.
capacity, is consistent with our strategy and is a natural fit with This is a stark reminder that we must lead in a way that ensures BHP Billitons greenfield land holdings in Canada.
This acquisition a safe workplace, and we can only do this by creating operating represents an acceleration of our entry into the fertiliser industry.
discipline and simplifying the way we work.
Safety starts with This, plus the delivery of five major capital projects, is evidence strong leadership and I cannot emphasise enough how important of our growth capabilities.
this is to me personally and to our Group.
However, we only earn the right to grow this business if we can I am pleased to announce that BHP Billiton operations this year do it safely, in an environmentally sound manner and in a way delivered solid results, with annual production records achieved that demonstrates our unqualified commitment to working in our Iron Ore and Petroleum businesses.
In Iron Ore, this with integrity.
I believe it is worth reiterating that safe growth marked the tenth consecutive annual production record, and underpinned by demonstrating our Charter values can only for Petroleum, it was the third consecutive production record.
be achieved through leadership commitment and operating Our long-life, low-cost expandable assets provide our Company discipline.
I want to take this opportunity to sincerely thank with the capacity to continue to deliver and strengthen our our employees and contractors and other stakeholders for position in a range of markets.
their efforts in responding to the accountabilities articulated in our operating model.
By operating at full capacity whenever possible and staying focused on eliminating low value activities, we maintained our Our Company has a clear strategy for growing our value, within low-cost position and our ability to generate robust cash flows.
a disciplined framework, and using prudent decision-making.
Of significant note in FY2010 was the move from annually Who and what we are today is the product of the vision and efforts of previous management teams in executing a consistent negotiated benchmark prices in metallurgical coal and iron ore to shorter-term reference pricing.
We have long advocated strategy.
It is our responsibility to not only preserve, but enhance and increase the value of that legacy.
a move to a more transparent pricing regime and will actively support the development of a wider traded market in these commodities.
This move brings metallurgical coal and iron ore into line with how the rest of our portfolio is priced globally and moves us closer to achieving our stated objective of market prices for all of our commodities.
More broadly, prices for our products recovered during the year Marius Kloppers driven by demand in China and restocking in the Organisation Chief Executive Officer for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD countries.
While government stimulus measures generally supported a gradual return to normalised global trade, the improvement in the developed economies was from a low base.
