10 Glossary continued 10.2 Mining and mining-related terms continued 10.3 Units of measure Reserve life Abbreviation Description Current stated ore reserves divided by the current approved bbl d Barrels per day nominal production rate.
boe Barrel oil equivalent Run of mine product dmt Dry metric tonnes Product mined in the course of regular mining activities.
dmtu Dry metric tonne unit Abbreviates to ROM.
ha Hectare Rutile km Kilometre It is an ore of titanium composed of titanium and oxygen TiO.
2 kV Kilovolt Solvent extraction kt Kilotonne A method of separating one or more metals from a leach solution kdwt Thousand deadweight tonnes by treating with a solvent that will extract the required metal, m Metre leaving the others.
The metal is recovered from the solvent by further treatment.
Ml Megalitre Mt Millions of tonnes Spud Commence drilling of an oil or gas well.
MMboe Million barrels oil equivalent MMBtu Million British Thermal Units Stockpile SP MMcf d Million cubic feet per day An accumulation of ore or mineral built up when demand slackens or when the treatment plant or beneficiation equipment Mbbl d Thousand barrels per day is incomplete or temporarily unequal to handling the mine MMbbl d Million barrels per day output: any heap of material formed to create a reserve for loading or other purposes or material dug and piled MMcm d Million cubic metres per day for future use.
mtpa Million tonnes per annum Tailing MW Megawatt Those portions of washed or milled ore that are too poor psi Pounds per square inch to be treated further or remain after the required metals and minerals have been extracted.
scf Standard cubic feet Total Coal Reserves TJ Terajoule Run of mine reserves as outputs from the mining activities.
tpa Tonnes per annum tpd Tonnes per day Total Marketable Reserves tph Tonnes per hour Product reserves as outputs from processing plant which includes sizing and beneficiation.
wmt Wet metric tonnes Total Ore Reserves Represent Proved Ore Reserves plus Probable Ore Reserves.
Underground UG Natural or man-made excavation under the surface of the Earth.
Zircon It is the chief ore of zirconium composed of zirconium, silicon and oxygen ZrSiO.
