Notes to Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Subsidiaries and joint ventures that have functional currencies other recognition of the sales revenue is based on the most recently than US dollars translate their income statement items to US dollars determined estimate of product specifications.
at the date of each transaction.
Assets and liabilities are translated For certain commodities, the sales price is determined on a at exchange rates prevailing at year end.
Exchange variations provisional basis at the date of sale: adjustments to the sales price resulting from the retranslation at closing rate of the net investment subsequently occurs based on movements in quoted market or in such subsidiaries and joint ventures, together with differences contractual prices up to the date of final pricing.
The period between between their income statement items translated at actual and provisional invoicing and final pricing is typically between 60 and closing rates, are recognised in the foreign currency translation 120 days.
Revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised based reserve.
For the purpose of foreign currency translation, the net on the estimated fair value of the total consideration receivable.
investment in a foreign operation is determined inclusive of foreign The revenue adjustment mechanism embedded within provisionally currency intercompany balances for which settlement is neither priced sales arrangements has the character of a commodity planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the fair value of the final sales price of the foreign currency translation reserve relating to a foreign adjustment is re-estimated continuously and changes in fair operation that is disposed of, or partially disposed of, is recognised value are recognised as an adjustment to revenue.
In all cases, in the income statement at the time of disposal.
fair value is estimated by reference to forward market prices.
Share-based payments Revenue is not reduced for royalties and other taxes payable from the Groups production.
The fair value at grant date of equity settled share awards granted on or after 8 November 2002 is charged to the income statement The Group separately discloses sales of Group production from over the period for which the benefits of employee services are sales of third party products due to the significant difference expected to be derived.
The corresponding accrued employee in profit margin earned on these sales.
entitlement is recorded in the employee share awards reserve.
The fair value of awards is calculated using an option pricing Exploration and evaluation expenditure model which considers the following factors: Exploration and evaluation activity involves the search for mineral XkXeV fX ce VX and petroleum resources, the determination of technical feasibility XkcXVgXW YX bY g[X TjTeW and the assessment of commercial viability of an identified resource.
VheeXag `Te Xg ce VX bY g[X haWXe l aZ f[TeXf Exploration and evaluation activity includes: eXfXTeV[ aZ TaW TaT lf aZ [ fgbe VT Xkc beTg ba WTgT XkcXVgXW ib Tg gl XkcXVgXW W i WXaWf ZTg[Xe aZ Xkc beTg ba WTgT g[ebhZ[ gbcbZeTc[ VT ZXbV[X` VT and geophysical studies e f YeXX agXeXfg eTgX Xkc beTgbel We aZ geXaV[ aZ TaW fT`c aZ `Te Xg UTfXW cXeYbe`TaVX [heW Xf WXgXe` a aZ TaW XkT` a aZ g[X ib h`X TaW ZeTWX bY g[X eXfbheVX aba iXfg aZ VbaW g baf fheiXl aZ geTafcbegTg ba TaW aYeTfgehVgheX eXdh eX`Xagf For equity-settled share awards granted on or before 7 November VbaWhVg aZ `Te Xg TaW Y aTaVX fghW Xf 2002 and that remained unvested at 1 July 2004, the estimated cost of share awards is charged to the income statement from grant Administration costs that are not directly attributable to a specific date to the date of expected vesting.
The estimated cost of awards exploration area are charged to the income statement.
Licence costs is based on the market value of shares at the grant date or the paid in connection with a right to explore in an existing exploration intrinsic value of options awarded, adjusted to reflect the impact area are capitalised and amortised over the term of the permit.
of performance conditions, where applicable.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure including amortisation Where awards are forfeited because non-market based vesting of capitalised licence costs is charged to the income statement conditions are not satisfied, the expense previously recognised as incurred except in the following circumstances, in which case is proportionately reversed.
Where shares in BHP Billiton Limited the expenditure may be capitalised: or BHP Billiton Plc are acquired by on-market purchases prior to a eXfcXVg bY ` aXeT f TVg i g Xfsettling vested entitlements, the cost of the acquired shares is the exploration and evaluation activity is within an area carried as treasury shares and deducted from equity.
When awards of interest which was previously acquired in a business are satisfied by delivery of acquired shares, any difference between combination and measured at fair value on acquisition: or their acquisition cost and the remuneration expense recognised the existence of a commercially viable mineral deposit has is charged directly to retained earnings.
The tax effect of awards been established: granted is recognised in income tax expense, except to the extent that the total tax deductions are expected to exceed the cumulative a eXfcXVg bY cXgeb Xh` TVg i g Xfremuneration expense.
In this situation, the excess of the associated the exploration and evaluation activity is within an area current or deferred tax is recognised in equity as part of the of interest for which it is expected that the expenditure employee share awards reserve.
will be recouped by future exploitation or sale: or exploration and evaluation activity has not reached a stage Sales revenue which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence Revenue from the sale of goods and disposal of other assets is of commercially recoverable reserves.
recognised when persuasive evidence, usually in the form of an Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure considered executed sales agreement, or an arrangement exists, indicating to be tangible is recorded as a component of property, plant and there has been a transfer of risks and rewards to the customer, equipment at cost less impairment charges.
Otherwise, it is recorded no further work or processing is required by the Group, the quantity as an intangible asset such as licences.
As the asset is not available and quality of the goods has been determined with reasonable for use, it is not depreciated.
All capitalised exploration and accuracy, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability evaluation expenditure is monitored for indications of impairment.
This is generally when title passes.
Where a potential impairment is indicated, assessment is performed In the majority of sales for most commodities, sales agreements for each area of interest in conjunction with the group of operating specify that title passes on the bill of lading date, which is the date assets representing a cash generating unit to which the exploration the commodity is delivered to the shipping agent.
For these sales, is attributed.
Exploration areas at which reserves have been revenue is recognised on the bill of lading date.
For certain sales discovered but that require major capital expenditure before principally coal sales to adjoining power stations and diamond production can begin are continually evaluated to ensure that sales, title passes and revenue is recognised when the goods commercial quantities of reserves exist or to ensure that additional have been delivered.
exploration work is under way or planned.
To the extent that capitalised expenditure is not expected to be recovered it is In cases where the terms of the executed sales agreement allow charged to the income statement.
for an adjustment to the sales price based on a survey of the goods by the customer for instance an assay for mineral content, 19 19 198 8 8 | | | BHP BHP BHP BIL BIL BILL L LI I IT T TO O ON N N A A AN N NNU NU NUA A AL L L RE RE REP P PO O ORT RT RT 2 2 20 0 01 1 10 0 0
