1 Key information 1.1 Our business We are the worlds largest diversified natural resources company.
Our corporate objective is to create long-term value for shareholders through the discovery, development and conversion of natural resources, and the provision of innovative customer and market-focused solutions.
We pursue this objective through our unchanged strategy of investing in tier one assets that are large, low-cost and long-life to provide a balanced portfolio of export-oriented commodities: steelmaking products iron ore, metallurgical coal, manganese: aba YXeebhf cebWhVgf VbccXe T h` a h` a V X W T`baWf cbgTf[.
XaXeZl cebWhVgf cXgeb Xh` XaXeZl VbT heTa h`!
We continue to invest in the future and have a deep inventory of growth assets.
Our operations and investments are designed to ensure the Group remains stable in the long term and responsive to market volatility in the short term.
The Group is headquartered in Melbourne, Australia, and consists We operate nine businesses, called Customer Sector Groups of the BHP Billiton Limited Group and the BHP Billiton Plc Group CSGs, which are aligned with the commodities we extract as a combined enterprise, following the completion of the Dual and market: Listed Company DLC merger in June 2001.
BHP Billiton Limited CXgeb Xh` and BHP Billiton Plc have each retained their separate corporate 4 h` a h` identities and maintained their separate stock exchange listings, 5TfX @XgT f aV hW aZ HeTa h` but they are operated and managed as if they are a single unified 7 T`baWf TaW FcXV T gl CebWhVgf economic entity, with their boards and senior executive FgT a Xff FgXX @TgXe T f management comprising the same people.
eba BeX BHP Billiton Limited has a primary listing on the Australian @TaZTaXfX Securities Exchange ASX in Australia.
BHP Billiton Plc has @XgT heZ VT 6bT a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange LSE in 8aXeZl 6bT !
the UK and a secondary listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange in South Africa.
In addition, BHP Billiton Limited American Depositary Receipts ADRs and BHP Billiton Plc ADRs trade on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the US.
As at 30 June 2010, we had a market capitalisation of approximately US$165.6 billion.
For the year ended 30 June 2010, we reported net operating cash flow of US$17.9 billion, profit attributable to shareholders of US$12.7 billion and revenue of US$52.8 billion.
We have approximately 100,000 employees and contractors working in more than 100 operations in over 25 countries.
