1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued During the year, the Board conducted reviews of the and non-financial information required to be disclosed by effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls for BHP Billiton, including in the reports that it files or submits the financial year and up to the date of this Annual Report in under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, is recorded, accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Turnbull processed, summarised and reported on a timely basis and Guidance and the Principles and Recommendations published that such information is accumulated and communicated by the ASX Corporate Governance Council.
These reviews to BHP Billitons management, including our CEO and CFO, covered financial, operational and compliance controls and as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required risk assessment.
During the year, management presented disclosure.
Based on the foregoing, our management, an assessment of the material business risks facing the Group including the CEO and CFO, has concluded that our and the level of effectiveness of risk management over the disclosure controls and procedures are effective in material business risks.
The reviews were overseen by the providing that reasonable assurance.
RAC, with findings and recommendations reported to the There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any Board.
In addition to considering key risks facing the Group, system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the the Board received an assessment of the effectiveness possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of internal controls over key risks identified through the of the controls and procedures.
Accordingly, even effective work of the Board Committees.
The Board is satisfied disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable that the effectiveness of the internal controls has been assurance of achieving their control objectives.
Further, in the design and evaluation of our disclosure controls CEO and CFO certification and procedures, our management was necessarily required to apply its judgement in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship The CEO and CFO have certified to the Board that the financial of possible controls and procedures.
statements are founded on a sound system of risk management and internal compliance and that the system is operating There have been no changes in our internal control over efficiently and effectively in all material respects.
financial reporting as that term is defined by the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during FY2010 that have materially During the year, the RAC reviewed our compliance with the affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, obligations imposed by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including our internal control over financial reporting.
evaluating and documenting internal controls as required by section 404 of the Act.
Assessment of RAC performance Our management, with the participation of our CEO and CFO, During the year, the RAC assessed its performance in has performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design accordance with its Terms of Reference.
As a result of and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of that assessment, the Committee is satisfied it has met 30 June 2010.
Disclosure controls and procedures are designed its Terms of Reference.
to provide reasonable assurance that the material financial 5.5.
2 Remuneration Committee Report The Remuneration Committee met seven times during the year.
Role and focus Information on meeting attendance by Committee members The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in its is included in the table in section 5.4.
1. oversight of: the remuneration policy and its specific application to the Remuneration Committee members during the year CEO and the CEOs direct reports, and its general application to all employees: Name Status the determination of levels of reward for the CEO John Buchanan Chairman Member for whole period and approval of reward to the CEOs direct reports: the annual evaluation of the performance of the CEO, Alan Boeckmann Member for whole period by giving guidance to the Chairman: Carlos Cordeiro Member for whole period communication to shareholders regarding remuneration policy and the Committees work on behalf of the Board, E Gail fide Planque Member to 31 January 2010 including the preparation of the Remuneration Report David Jenkins Member to 26 November 2009 for inclusion in the Annual Report: John Schubert Member from 23 March 2010 compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements associated with remuneration matters.
Activities undertaken during the year Full details of the Committees work on behalf of the Board are set out in the Remuneration Report in section 6.
During the year, the Committee assessed its performance in accordance with its Terms of Reference.
As a result of that assessment, the Committee is satisfied it has met its Terms of Reference.
