5 Corporate Governance Statement continued Board by invitation.
9 Independent advice on the status and performance of our businesses and matters The Board and its Committees may seek advice from reserved for the Board, including the approval of budgets, independent experts whenever it is considered appropriate.
annual financial statements and business strategy.
Individual Directors, with the consent of the Chairman, may seek independent professional advice on any matter 5.3.
13 Company Secretaries connected with the discharge of their responsibilities, Jane McAloon is the Group Company Secretary.
The Group at the Groups expense.
Company Secretary is responsible for developing and maintaining the information systems and processes that enable the Board 5.3.
10 Remuneration to fulfil its role.
The Group Company Secretary is also responsible Details of our remuneration policies and practices and the to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied remuneration paid to the Directors executive and non-executive with and advising the Board on governance matters.
All Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report in section 6 of this have access to the Group Company Secretary for advice and Annual Report.
Shareholders will be invited to consider and services.
Independent advisory services are retained by the to approve the Remuneration Report at the 2010 Annual Group Company Secretary at the request of the Board or Board General Meetings.
Ms McAloon is supported by Fiona Smith, who is Deputy Company Secretary of BHP Billiton Limited, and Elizabeth 5.3.
11 Share ownership Hobley and Geof Stapledon, who are Deputy Company Secretaries Non-executive Directors have agreed to apply at least of BHP Billiton Plc.
The Board appoints and removes the 25 per cent of their remuneration to the purchase of BHP Billiton Company Secretaries.
shares until they achieve a shareholding equivalent in value to one years remuneration.
Thereafter, they must maintain at least that level of shareholding throughout their tenure.
5.4 Board of Directors Review, re-election All dealings by Directors are subject to the Groups Securities and renewal Dealing procedure and are reported to the Board and to the stock exchanges.
1 Review The Board is committed to transparency in determining Board Information on our policy governing the use of hedge membership and in assessing the performance of Directors.
arrangements over shares in BHP Billiton by both Directors The Board assesses its performance through a combination and members of the Group Management Committee is set of internal peer review and externally facilitated evaluation.
out in section 6.5 of this Annual Report.
Contemporary performance measures are considered an Details of the shares held by Directors are set out important part of this process.
Directors performance is in section 7.20 of this Annual Report.
also measured against their individual development plans see section 5.3.
12 Meetings The Board conducts regular evaluations of its performance, The Board meets as often as necessary to fulfil its role.
Directors the performance of its Committees, the Chairman, individual are required to allocate sufficient time to the Group to perform Directors and the governance processes that support the Boards their responsibilities effectively, including adequate time to work.
This includes analysis of how the Board and its Directors prepare for Board meetings.
During the reporting year, the are functioning, the time spent by the Board considering matters Board met nine times, with six of those meetings being held and whether the Terms of Reference of the Board Committees in Australia and three in the UK.
Generally, meetings run have been met, as well as compliance with the Board Governance for two days.
The non-executive Directors meet during Document.
The evaluation of the Boards performance is each Board meeting in the absence of the executive Director conducted by focusing on individual Directors and Board and management and the session is chaired by the Group Committees in one year and the Board as a whole in the Chairman.
Attendance by Directors at Board and Board following year.
In addition, the Board conducts evaluations Committee meetings is set out in the table in section 5.4.
1. of the performance of Directors retiring and seeking re-election Members of the Group Management Committee and other and uses the results of the evaluation when considering whether members of senior management attended meetings of the to recommend the re-election of particular Directors.
Board Review Year Two internally Whole Board Update or externally review development plans facilitated review Each year: Review Directors seeking election Year One internally Incorporate Individual Director review or externally feedback and committee review facilitated review 136 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010
