2 Information on the Company continued Development projects 2.2.
5 Diamonds and Specialty Products Customer Sector Group Olympic Dam Our Diamonds and Specialty Products CSG operates our Pre-feasibility study work on the proposed expansion of Olympic diamonds and titanium minerals businesses and the exploration Dam has addressed production capacities, mining methods, and development of a potash business.
processing including smelting options and supporting infrastructure requirements.
The proposed expansion would Diamonds be a progressive development requiring construction activity The cornerstone of our diamonds business is the EKATI diamond to increase production to up to 750,000 tonnes per annum of mine in the Northwest Territories of Canada, of which we own copper, 19,000 tonnes per annum of uranium oxide and 800,000 80 per cent.
EKATI has produced on average over three million ounces of gold.
The Group released a draft Environmental Impact carats per year of rough diamonds over the last three years.
Statement EIS in May 2009 and received more than 4,000 However, the grade of ore we process fluctuates from year public submissions on the project.
The issues raised in the public to year, resulting in variations in carats produced.
In addition, submissions are addressed in a Supplementary EIS which the the proportion of our production consisting of high-value carats Group expects to complete by the end of CY2010.
Government larger and or higher-quality stones and low-value carats decisions on the project are expected in the second half smaller and or lower-quality stones will fluctuate from year of CY2011.
After that, the expansion project will depend to year.
During the year mining of the higher grade Panda on successfully completing all required feasibility studies underground was completed.
The mine life based on the mine and on Board approval of the final investment case.
Yeelirrie Annual sales from EKATI 100 per cent terms represent approximately three per cent of current world rough diamond Pre-feasibility study work relating to the proposed Yeelirrie uranium oxide mine is in progress and will be reviewed by supply by weight and approximately nine per cent by value.
We sell most of our rough diamonds to international diamond the Group to determine whether feasibility study work should commence in early 2011.
The work currently underway includes buyers through our Antwerp sales office.
We also sell a smaller amount of our diamond production to two Canadian resource definition drilling, test work, process plant concept design, environment impact assessment, capital and operating manufacturers based in the Northwest Territories.
Titanium minerals Escondida Our principal interest in titanium minerals consists of our Exploration of the Escondida lease and early drilling results 37.76 per cent interest in Richards Bay Minerals RBM.
RBM is one of the largest and lowest-cost producers of titania suggest that there is extensive additional mineralisation in close proximity to existing infrastructure and processing slag, high-purity pig iron, rutile and zircon from mineral sands.
Approximately 90 per cent of the titanium dioxide slag produced facilities, including a prospect known as Pampa Escondida.
In FY2010 Escondida has expensed US$125 million US$72 million by RBM is suitable for the chloride process of titanium dioxide pigment manufacture and is sold internationally under a variety our share in exploration.
Escondida is planning to invest a further estimated US$541 million US$311 million our share of short, medium and long-term contracts.
in drilling, assaying and metallurgical test work in exploration In December 2009, RBM completed its Broad-Based Black over the next five years.
Economic Empowerment BBBEE transaction by transferring The Laguna Seca Debottlenecking project which will provide 26 per cent to the BBBEE consortium.
The BBBEE Consortium includes investors, local communities and RBM employees.
additional processing capacity has moved into feasibility.
It is expected that this project will move into execution Potash during FY2011.
Development of Organic Growth Project 1 continues which is the replacement of the Los Colorados We believe potash has significant growth potential underpinned concentrator allowing access to higher grade ore and by increasing demand for food and decreasing arable land, which additional processing capacity.
is largely driven by growing economies in developing countries.
On 18 August 2010, BHP Billiton announced its intention to make Antamina an all-cash offer, and on 20 August 2010 formally commenced In FY2010 Antamina announced the approval of the the offer, to acquire all of the issued and outstanding common Expansion project.
With a total investment of US$1.3 billion shares of Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc. PotashCorp US$434.7 million our share, the project will expand milling at a price of US$130 in cash per PotashCorp common share the capacity by 38 per cent to 130,000 tpd.
The Offer values the total equity of PotashCorp at includes a new SAG mill, a new 55 kilometre power transmission approximately US$40 billion on a fully diluted basis.
line, an expanded truck shop facility and upgrades to the On 23 March 2010, we completed the acquisition of all the issued crushing and tailing systems, flotation circuit and port and outstanding common shares of Athabasca Potash Inc API capacity.
Commissioning of the project is scheduled to start at for C$8.35 cash per common share.
This acquisition provided the end of CY2011.
Our share of the capital expenditures in the us with 100 per cent control of the Burr project and various Antamina expansion project totalled US$47 million in FY2010.
additional potash exploration properties in Saskatchewan, Resolution Copper Canada.
Our permit positions for potash extend over 14,000 square kilometres in the Saskatchewan basin and have expiry We hold a 45 per cent interest in the Resolution Copper project dates between 2013 and 2016.
We are currently studying in Arizona, which is operated by our partner, Rio Tinto, which development opportunities see Development projects below.
Resolution Copper is currently undertaking a pre-feasibility study into a substantial underground copper mine and processing facility.
Resolution Copper continued to advance the sinking of the No.
10 Shaft in order to gain access to the ore deposit for characterisation work of mineralisation and geotechnical conditions.
In addition to work completed at the project site, efforts continued towards gaining approval within the US Congress for a Federal Land Exchange to access the ore deposit.
34 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Information on Diamonds and Specialty Products mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
2 and reserve tables see section 2.14.2.
Name, location, mineralisation Ownership, operation style, type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source DIAMONDS The processing plant consists EKATI Diamond Mine We own an 80% interest in the Construction began in 1997 and Core Zone joint venture, which production from the first open-cut of crushers, washers scrubber 310 km northeast of Yellowknife, and grinder and heavy media includes the existing operations.
The mine Northwest Territories, Canada The remaining 20% interest is held and processing plant began separator.
The diamond recovery Eocene age kimberlite pipes operation in mid 1998. process makes use of magnetics by two individuals.
dominantly volcaniclastic infill and X-ray sorters.
We also own a 58.8% interest In October 2001, we acquired Fox is an open-cut mine and in the Buffer Zone joint venture, Dia Met Minerals Ltd, bringing All the electric power is generated Koala is an underground mine made up predominantly our interest in the Core Zone by our Company-owned and The mines are accessible year of exploration targets.
and Buffer Zone joint ventures up operated diesel power station.
In addition, there is storage We are the operator of the mines.
Road access is available for for approximately 90 million litres Current active mines include Tenure is secured through approximately 10 weeks per of diesel fuel on-site.
one open-cut Fox and one ownership of mining leases year via an ice road.
granted by the Government of Mining at Panda underground Canada.
Mining leases have been mine was completed granted for reserves until 2017. during FY2010.
TITANIUM MINERALS Richards Bay Minerals RBM comprises two legal entities, Richards Bay Minerals was formed Mining is conducted largely Richards Bay Mining Proprietary in 1976 to mine and beneficiate by sand dredge mining, with RBM has four beach sand dredge Limited and Richards Bay Titanium the sands in the coastal dunes.
mines located 10 to 50 km north Proprietary Limited, in each of Gravity separation is then utilised of Richards Bay, KwaZulu-Natal, The mining operations were which the Group has a 50% to produce a heavy mineral expanded to five, with the last South Africa interest and functions as a single concentrate.
This concentrate mine added in 2000.
In 2006, Quaternary age coastal dune economic entity.
After deducting is then trucked to a central this was reduced to four, with deposits heavy mineral sands non-controlling interests in processing plant to produce the closure of one mining pond.
concentrated by wave action and subsidiaries of RBM, the Groups the finished products, being aeolian processes economic interest in the rutile and zircon and the The mines are accessible via public operations of RBM is 37.76%.
Rio Tinto operates the The smelter processes the ilmenite The rail between the mine site, to produce titanium dioxide slag, joint venture on behalf harbour and shipping facilities of the shareholders.
with a titanium dioxide content are owned by Spoornet and of approximately 85% and RBM holds long-term Portnet both government high-purity iron.
renewable leases from the business enterprises supplying state of South Africa.
The nominal titanium slag services on behalf of the state.
These leases are subject to the The roads accessing the smelter South African Mining Charter and Power for the operation are government-owned.
an application has been lodged is purchased from the for a conversion to a New Order South African grid.
Rights see section 2.7, Government regulations.
