3 Risk management governance structure 5.6 Risk management The principal aim of the Groups risk management governance 5.6.
1 Approach to risk management structure and internal control systems is to identify, evaluate We believe that the identification and management of risk and manage business risks, with a view to enhancing the is central to achieving the corporate objective of delivering value of shareholders investments and safeguarding assets.
Each year, the Board reviews Management has put in place a number of key policies, and considers the risk profile for the whole business.
This risk processes, performance requirements and independent controls profile covers both operational and strategic risks.
The risk to provide assurance to the Board and the RAC as to the integrity profile is assessed to ensure it supports the achievement of of our reporting and effectiveness of our systems of internal the Groups strategy while maintaining a strong A credit rating.
The BHP Billiton Governance The Board has delegated the oversight of risk management to structure diagram in section 5.1 highlights the relationship the RAC.
In addition, the Board specifically requires the CEO between the Board and the various controls in the assurance to implement a system of control for identifying and managing process.
Some of the more significant internal control systems risk.
The Directors, through the RAC, review the systems that include Board and management committees, Business Group have been established for this purpose and regularly review RACs, the Risk Management Policy and internal audit.
Business Group Risk and Audit Committees The Group has established a Risk Management Policy with The Business Group RACs illustrated in the diagram in supporting processes and performance requirements that section 5.5.
1 assist the RAC to monitor the Groups obligations provide an overarching and consistent framework for the in relation to financial reporting, internal control structure, identification, assessment and management of risks.
Risks are risk management processes and the internal and external ranked using a common methodology.
Where a risk is assessed audit functions.
as material it is reported and reviewed by senior management.
During the year, updated Risk Management Group Level Board Committees Documents were approved and implemented across the Group.
Directors also monitor risks and controls through the RAC, the Remuneration Committee and the Sustainability Committee.
Our Risk Management Policy can be found at Management Committees www.
Management committees also perform roles in relation to risk and control.
Strategic risks and opportunities arising from 5.6.
2 Business risks changes in our business environment are regularly reviewed The scope of our operations and the number of industries in by the GMC and discussed by the Board.
The Financial Risk which we operate and engage mean that a range of factors Management Committee FRMC reviews the effectiveness of may impact our results.
Material risks that could negatively internal controls relating to commodity price risk, counterparty affect our results and performance include: credit risk, currency risk, financing risk, interest rate risk and impacts arising from the global financial crisis: insurance.
Minutes of the GMC and the FRMC meetings are fluctuations in commodity prices: provided to the Board.
The Investment Committee provides oversight for investment processes across the business and fluctuations in currency exchange rates: coordinates the investment toll-gating process for major failure or non-performance of counterparties: investments.
Reports are made to the Board on findings by influence of demand from China as well as related investments the Investment Committee in relation to major capital projects.
aimed at achieving resource security: failure to discover new reserves, maintain or enhance existing reserves or develop new operations: actions by governments, including additional taxation, infrastructure development and political events in the countries in which we operate: inability to successfully integrate acquired businesses: inability to recover investments in mining and oil and gas projects: non-compliance with the Groups standards by non-controlled assets: operating cost pressures and shortages could negatively impact our operating margins and expansion plans: impact of increased costs or schedule delays on development projects: impact of health, safety, environmental and community exposures and related regulations on operations and reputation: unexpected natural and operational catastrophes: climate change and greenhouse effects: inadequate human resource talent pool: breaches in information technology security: breaches in governance processes.
These risks are described in more detail in section 1.5.
