2 Information on the Company continued RBO engages directly with operating assets to deliver guidance 2.4 Marketing and assess compliance in resource development and Ore Reserve BHP Billitons Marketing network manages the Groups revenue reporting.
It provides the Group Management Committee with line and is responsible for: assurance reports and portfolio analysis.
RBO also provides fX aZ g[X :ebhcf cebWhVgf TaW Ybe g[X cheV[TfX bY T `T]be functional expertise to audits and to investment review raw materials: programs conducted by other Group Functions.
g[X fhcc l V[T a Ybe bhe iTe bhf cebWhVgf Yeb` TffXgf gb RBOs accountabilities include governance for all resource market, and also for raw materials, from suppliers to our and reserve estimation and Ore Reserve reporting.
production Assets: TV[ Xi aZ `Te Xg V XTe aZ ce VXf Ybe g[X :ebhcf cebWhVgf.
2.7 Government regulations WXiX bc aZ T f aZ X :ebhc i Xj bY g[X `Te Xgf!
Government regulations touch all aspects of our operations.
This requires an active and significant presence in the various However, because of the geographical diversity of our commodities markets and also the global freight market.
operations, no one set of government regulations is likely Our marketing activities are centralised in Singapore, The Hague to have a material effect on our business, taken as a whole.
Our Iron Ore, Metallurgical Coal, Manganese, The ability to extract minerals, oil and natural gas is Base Metals, Stainless Steel Materials, Petroleum and Uranium fundamental to our business.
In most jurisdictions, the rights marketing teams are headquartered in Singapore.
The Hague to undeveloped mineral or petroleum deposits are owned by is the hub for our Aluminium, Energy Coal and Freight marketing the state.
Accordingly, we rely upon the rights granted to us teams.
Our Antwerp office serves our diamonds customers.
by the government that owns the mineral, oil or natural gas.
These three marketing offices incorporate all the functions These rights usually take the form of a lease or licence, which required to manage product marketing and distribution gives us the right to access the land and extract the product.
from the point of production to final customer delivery.
The terms of the lease or licence, including the time period In addition, we have marketers located in 15 regional offices for which it is effective, are specific to the laws of the relevant around the world.
Generally, we own the product we extract and royalties or similar taxes are payable to the government.
Some of our operations, such as our oil and gas operations in Trinidad and 2.5 Minerals exploration Tobago and Algeria, are subject to production sharing contracts Our exploration program is integral to our growth strategy and under which both we as the contractor and the government is focused on identifying and capturing new world-class projects are entitled to a share of the production.
Under such production for future development or projects that add significant value to sharing contracts, the contractor is entitled to recover its existing operations.
Targets for exploration are generally large exploration and production costs from the governments low-cost mining projects in a range of minerals, including copper, share of production.
uranium, nickel, diamonds, bauxite, iron ore, manganese, Related to the ability to extract is the ability to process the coal and potash.
The process of discovery runs from early-stage minerals, oil or natural gas.
Again, we rely upon the relevant mapping through to drilling and evaluation.
The program is government to grant the rights necessary to transport and global and prioritises targets based on our assessment of the treat the extracted material in order to ready it for sale.
relative attractiveness of each mineral.
Underlying our business of extracting and processing natural We continue to pursue opportunities and build our position in resources is the ability to explore for those orebodies.
The rights prospective countries, including exploring for copper in South to explore for minerals, oil and natural gas are granted to us America, Zambia and South East Asia: nickel in Australia: and by the government that owns those natural resources that diamonds in Canada.
In the bulk commodities, activities are we wish to explore.
Usually, the right to explore carries with focused on a number of highly prospective terrains in Australia it the obligation to spend a defined amount of money on the and Africa.
exploration or to undertake particular exploration activities.
Our exploration activities are organised from four principal offices Governments also impose obligations on us in respect of in Singapore, Perth Australia, Johannesburg South Africa and environmental protection, land rehabilitation, occupational Santiago Chile.
health and safety, and native land title with which we must In addition to our activities focused on finding new world-class comply in order to continue to enjoy the right to conduct our deposits, several of our CSGs undertake exploration, principally operations within that jurisdiction.
These obligations often aimed at delineating and categorising mineral deposits near require us to make substantial expenditures to minimise existing operations, and advancing projects through the or remediate the environmental impact of our operations, development pipeline.
to ensure the safety of our employees and contractors and the like.
For further information on these types of obligations, In FY2010, we spent US$516 million on minerals exploration.
refer to section 2.8 and 2.9 of this Report.
Of this, US$126 million was spent on greenfield exploration, US$390 million was spent on brownfield exploration and Of particular note are the following regulatory regimes: advanced projects.
1 South African Mining Charter and Black Economic Empowerment 2.6 Resource and Business Optimisation In 2003, the Government released a strategy for broad-based Group Resource and Business Optimisation RBO provides black economic empowerment BBBEE that defined governance and technical leadership for resource development empowerment as an integrated and coherent socio-economic and Ore Reserve reporting.
RBOs 41 professionals are focused process that directly contributes to the economic transformation on ensuring optimal value recovery from our resources.
The team of South Africa and brings significant increases in the numbers includes functional experts in mineral resource evaluation, of black people who manage, own and control the countrys brownfields exploration, planning, research and development, economy, as well as significant decreases in income inequalities.
work management, production reporting, mine engineering This strategy laid the foundation for the Black Economic and mineral process engineering.
Empowerment Act of 2003, which granted government the power to legislate how it wanted black economic empowerment BEE to be implemented in South Africa.
