1 Key information continued As part of our Board succession, Carolyn Hewson and Malcolm 1.2 Chairmans Review Broomhead joined the Board in March 2010.
Together they bring I am pleased to report that in a difficult global economic and deep experience in industrial and resource companies, financial financial environment, BHP Billiton continued to perform well markets and investment risk management.
During the year, and strengthened its strategic and financial position.
Don Argus, Paul Anderson, Gail fide Planque, David Jenkins and David Morgan retired from the Board.
We thank each of them for While the global economic outlook has improved, the recovery their contribution, particularly former Chairman Don Argus AC.
Despite a near-term slowing in China, we continue to believe that the fundamentals driving Asian growth are robust.
We have always believed that corporate governance and It is clear to the Board that the long-term outlook for BHP Billiton executive remuneration practices are critical issues for any is strong.
We have unique assets that are critical to the growth company and its stakeholders.
We support the need for simplified of the worlds developing economies, and a geographic and and transparent executive remuneration reporting, and these commodity spread that reduces risk and optimises opportunity.
have been key influences on the structure of our remuneration report this year.
During the year, your Chief Executive, Marius Kloppers, and his team focused on delivering strong production and cost Our Remuneration Committee reviewed the Groups Long Term performance as well as investing in new growth opportunities.
Incentive Plan for our most senior executives.
The plan was originally introduced in 2004 and, given the changes in the global Our strategy is clear and remains unchanged since 2001. environment, the Committee believed a review was warranted.
We focus on large, long-life, low-cost, upstream, high-quality We consulted widely with our shareholders as well as governance assets, diversified by commodity, geography and markets.
As a result, we continue to believe that the duration This strategy means more predictable business performance of our five-year, long-term plan is appropriate.
However, we over time which, in turn, underpins the creation of value for also believe it is important to change some design elements our shareholders, customers, employees and, importantly, as the plan produced highly leveraged outcomes not reflective the communities in which we operate.
This is a matter on which we will seek The execution of our strategy resulted in a profit from operations, shareholder approval.
excluding exceptional items, of US$19.7 billion an increase One thing that has impressed me since the time I started as of 8.3 per cent.
Net operating cash flows were US$17.9 billion, a Director in 2006 has been the quality of BHP Billiton people US$7.7 billion of which was reinvested in new growth projects.
In resources, as in many other industries, In addition, the Board increased dividends by 6.1 per cent to results are not only a function of the quality of the assets but 87 cents per share, in line with our progressive dividend policy.
the quality of the people operating and managing those assets.
While the Board is pleased with these results, our progress in Marius is a talented Chief Executive and he has developed a the critical area of safety is still below expectation.
We continued strong and diverse team with a depth of talent to support him.
to reduce the number of workplace injuries, however five people On your behalf, the Board would like to thank everyone involved lost their lives at our operations this year.
This is clearly with our Company for the contribution they have made in this unacceptable and a tragedy for their families, friends challenging year.
Finally, since becoming Chairman this year after the retirement In August 2010, we announced a fully funded takeover of Potash of Don Argus, I have had the privilege of meeting many of our Corporation of Saskatchewan.
The proposed acquisition meets institutional and individual shareholders.
This is a rewarding our criteria of developing quality long-life assets using our part of my role and I look forward to meeting many more existing mining skills to gain a leading position in the growing of you over the coming years.
We are committed to being a strong corporate citizen in Saskatchewan and New Brunswick, Canada, and our intention is to establish a global potash business based in Canada.
Important governance developments occurred in the UK, US and Australia during the year responding to the challenges of the global recession.
We support the changes, particularly Jacques Nasser AO the emphasis on ensuring Boards comprise Directors with the Chairman collective set of essential skills and experience to govern the Group supported by robust succession planning and performance evaluation.
