6.5 Remuneration Governance continued 6.6 Aggregate Directors remuneration This table sets out the aggregate remuneration of executive and Use of remuneration consultants non-executive Directors in accordance with the requirements of The Board seeks and considers advice from independent the UK Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized remuneration consultants where appropriate.
Remuneration Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations consultants are engaged by and report directly to the 2008 made thereunder.
Potential conflicts of interest are taken into account when remuneration consultants are selected US dollars million 2010 2009 and their terms of engagement regulate their level of access to, and require their independence from, BHP Billitons management.
Emoluments 8 7 The advice and recommendations of external consultants are Termination payments used as a guide, but do not serve as a substitute for thorough Awards vesting under consideration of the issues by each director.
LTI plans 7 2 Kepler Associates, who were appointed by the Remuneration Gains on exercise Committee to act as independent remuneration advisers, provide of Options specialist remuneration advice and do not provide other services to the Group.
During the year, Kepler Associates provided advice Pension contributions 3 1 and assistance to the Remuneration Committee on a wide range Total 18 10 of matters, including: U XaV[`Te aZ bY cTl bY fXa be XkXVhg iXf TZT afg Vb`cTeTU X roles at a range of relevant comparator groups, including sector and size peers: cebi f ba bY aYbe`Tg ba TaW Vb``XagTel ba Z bUT geXaWf in executive remuneration: cXeYbe`TaVX TaT lf f Ybe ?G TjTeWf.
eXi Xj bY TaW Vb``XagTel ba `TaTZX`Xag cebcbfT f. TaT lf f TaW fhccbeg a g[X eXi Xj bY ?G TeeTaZX`Xagf.
bg[Xe TW [bV fhccbeg TaW TWi VX Tf eXdhXfgXW Ul the Committee.
An up-to-date list of all consultants, together with the type of services supplied and whether services are provided elsewhere in the Group, is available on our website.
Hedging of BHP Billiton shares and equity instruments Specified employees including the GMC are not allowed to protect the value of any unvested equity instruments allocated to them under employee programs or the value of shares and equity instruments held as part of meeting BHP Billitons minimum shareholding requirements as described in section 6.3.
Any securities that have vested and are no longer subject to restrictions or performance conditions may be subject to hedging arrangements, provided that consent is obtained from BHP Billiton in advance of the employee entering into the arrangement.
Such arrangements need to be reported in the Remuneration Report, and no such arrangements were in place during FY2010 or at the date of this Annual Report.
BHP Billiton treats compliance with this policy as a serious issue, and takes appropriate measures to ensure that the policy is adhered to.
In addition, the Group has a policy that prohibits non-executive Directors and senior executives from using BHP Billiton securities as collateral in any financial transaction, including margin loan arrangements.
