2 Information on the Company continued 2.12.3 Facility agreement continued 2.13.1 Directors The proceeds of loans drawn under the credit facilities may The management and control of the business and affairs of be used for the following purposes: BHP Billiton are vested in the Board of Directors, which may exercise all powers and do everything that is within the power Y aTaV aZ g[X TVdh f g ba bY g[X bhgfgTaW aZ Vb``ba of BHP Billiton, other than what is required to be exercised shares of PotashCorp pursuant to the offer and any or done by BHP Billiton in a general meeting.
subsequent acquisition or pursuant to a plan of arrangement: cTl`Xagf gb [b WXef bY bcg baf jTeeTagf be bg[Xe e Z[gf 2.13.2 Power to issue securities to receive the outstanding common shares of PotashCorp: BHP Billiton may, pursuant to the Constitution and Articles of g[X cTl`Xag bY YXXf Vbfgf TaW XkcXafXf eX Tg aZ gb g[X Association, issue any shares or other securities with preferred, acquisition of PotashCorp and the credit facilities: deferred or other special rights, obligations or restrictions as and eXY aTaV aZ g[X aWXUgXWaXff bY CbgTf[6bec be when the Directors may determine and on any other terms the its subsidiaries: and Directors consider appropriate, provided that any such issue: a g[X VTfX bY g[X eXib i aZ VeXW g YTV g Xf g[X ZXaXeT WbXf abg TYYXVg Tal fcXV T e Z[gf VbaYXeeXW ba g[X [b WXef corporate purposes of the Group.
of any shares: Loans drawn down under the credit facilities bear interest f fhU]XVg gb g[X cebi f baf eXZTeW aZ f[TeX[b WXe TccebiT at a margin over the London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR.
in the Constitution and Articles of Association.
The ability to draw down under the credit facilities is subject The rights attaching to a class other than ordinary shares are to certain conditions being met on the date of drawdown, expressed at the date of issue.
including, among other things, all conditions to the consummation of the offer having been met without being amended, varied or 2.13.3 Restrictions on voting by Directors waived or otherwise treated as satisfied in circumstances where A Director may not vote in respect of any contract or arrangement they have not been satisfied except as permitted under the or any other proposal in which he or she has a material personal terms of the facility agreement.
The facility agreement contains interest.
A Director shall not be counted in the quorum at customary representations and warranties, affirmative and a meeting in relation to any resolution on which he or she negative covenants including requirements relating to the is not entitled to vote.
financial indebtedness of PotashCorp and certain restrictions on disposals and subsidiary indebtedness, indemnities and In addition, under the UK Companies Act 2006, a Director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can events of default, each with applicable qualifications or carve-outs.
The facility agreement also contains a net have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or may conflict with the interests of the company.
The duty is not infringed, if borrowing to EBITDA financial covenant.
among other things, the situation is authorised by non-interested The facility agreement contains a requirement to use the net Directors.
In 2008, the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc cash proceeds arising from certain disposals, debt issuances were amended to enable the Board to authorise a matter that or equity issuances to prepay or cancel the US$25 billion term might otherwise involve a Director breaching his or her duty to facility, subject to certain exceptions and thresholds.
An interested Director may not vote Each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc is a guarantor or be counted towards a quorum for a resolution authorising under the facility agreement.
The credit facilities are unsecured.
Where the Board gives such authorisation, the The facility agreement also contains certain other terms Board may prohibit, or may establish regulations which prohibit, including treatment of withholding tax, quarterly commitment the relevant Director from voting on any matter relating to the fees and increased costs payable to the Lenders and the giving conflict.
The Board has adopted procedures to manage these of certain indemnities.
Subject to applicable laws, a Director is entitled to vote, and be 2.13 Constitution counted in the quorum, in respect of any resolution concerning any of the following matters, namely where the material The following text summarises the Constitution of BHP Billiton personal interest: Limited and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc.
Te fXf UXVThfX g[X 7 eXVgbe f T f[TeX[b WXe bY 5:C 5 gba TaW The effect of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the is held in common with the other shareholders of BHP Billiton: Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc is, so far as possible, Te fXf a eX Tg ba gb g[X 7 eXVgbef eX`haXeTg ba Tf T 7 eXVgbe identical.
Where the term BHP Billiton is used in this description of BHP Billiton: of the Constitution and Articles of Association, it can be read eX TgXf gb T VbageTVg 5:C 5 gba f cebcbf aZ gb XagXe agb to mean either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
that is subject to approval by the shareholders and will not Certain provisions of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited impose any obligation on BHP Billiton if it is not approved and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc can only by the shareholders: be amended where such amendment is approved by special Te fXf `XeX l UXVThfX g[X 7 eXVgbe f T ZhTeTagbe be [Tf Z iXa resolution either: an indemnity or security for all or part of a loan, or proposed U l TccebiT Tf T 6 Tff E Z[gf 4Vg ba j[XeX g[X T`XaW`Xag loan, to BHP Billiton: results in a change to an Entrenched Provision: or Te fXf `XeX l UXVThfX g[X 7 eXVgbe [Tf T e Z[g bY fhUebZTg ba otherwise, as a Joint Electorate Action.
in relation to a guarantee or indemnity referred to above: A description of Joint Electorate Actions and Class Rights Actions eX TgXf gb T VbageTVg g[Tg afheXf be jbh W afheX g[X is contained under the heading Equalisation of economic and Director against liabilities the Director incurs as an officer voting rights in section 2.11.2 of this Report.
The objects of of BHP Billiton, but only if the contract does not make BHP Billiton Plc are contained in clause 4 of its Memorandum BHP Billiton or a related body corporate the insurer: of Association.
eX TgXf gb Tal cTl`Xag Ul 5:C 5 gba be T eX TgXW UbWl corporate in respect of an indemnity permitted by law, or any contract relating to such an indemnity: or f a T VbageTVg be cebcbfXW VbageTVg j g[ be Ybe g[X UXaXY g of, or on behalf of, a related body corporate and arises merely because the Director is a director of a related body corporate.
