1 Accounting policies continued Cash flows associated with exploration and evaluation expenditure Operating lease assets are not capitalised and rental payments comprising both amounts expensed and amounts capitalised are included in the income statement on a straight-line basis over are classified as investing activities in the cash flow statement.
Provision is made for the present value of future operating lease payments in relation to surplus lease space when Development expenditure it is first determined that the space will be of no probable future benefit.
Operating lease incentives are recognised as a liability When proved reserves are determined and development is when received and subsequently reduced by allocating lease sanctioned, capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure payments between rental expense and reduction of the liability.
is reclassified as assets under construction, and is disclosed as a component of property, plant and equipment.
All subsequent Impairment of non-current assets development expenditure is capitalised and classified as assets under construction.
Development expenditure is net of proceeds Formal impairment tests are carried out annually for goodwill.
from the sale of ore extracted during the development phase.
Formal impairment tests for all other assets are performed On completion of development, all assets included in assets when there is an indication of impairment.
The Group conducts under construction are reclassified as either plant and equipment annually an internal review of asset values which is used as a or other mineral assets.
source of information to assess for any indications of impairment.
External factors, such as changes in expected future prices, Property, plant and equipment costs and other market factors are also monitored to assess for indications of impairment.
If any such indication exists an estimate Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated of the assets recoverable amount is calculated, being the higher depreciation and impairment charges.
Cost is the fair value of of fair value less direct costs to sell and the assets value in use.
consideration given to acquire the asset at the time of its acquisition or construction and includes the direct cost of bringing the asset If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable to the location and condition necessary for operation and the amount, the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged estimated future cost of dismantling and removing the asset.
to the income statement so as to reduce the carrying amount Disposals are taken to account in the income statement.
Where the in the balance sheet to its recoverable amount.
disposal involves the sale or abandonment of a significant business Fair value is determined as the amount that would be obtained or all of the assets associated with such a business the gain or loss from the sale of the asset in an arms length transaction between is disclosed as an exceptional item.
Fair value for mineral assets is generally determined as the present value of the estimated future Other mineral assets cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset, Other mineral assets comprise: including any expansion prospects, and its eventual disposal, 6Tc gT fXW Xkc beTg ba XiT hTg ba TaW WXiX bc`Xag using assumptions that an independent market participant expenditure including development stripping for properties may take into account.
These cash flows are discounted by now in production: an appropriate discount rate to arrive at a net present value @ aXeT e Z[gf TaW cXgeb Xh` agXeXfgf TVdh eXW.
6Tc gT fXW cebWhVg ba fge cc aZ Tf WXfVe UXW UX bj Value in use is determined as the present value of the estimated in Overburden removal costs.
future cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset in its present form and its eventual disposal.
Value in Depreciation of property, plant and equipment use is determined by applying assumptions specific to the Groups The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment including continued use and cannot take into account future development.
initial and any subsequent capital expenditure are depreciated These assumptions are different to those used in calculating fair to their estimated residual value over the estimated useful lives of value and consequently the value in use calculation is likely to the specific assets concerned, or the estimated life of the associated give a different result usually lower to a fair value calculation.
mine, field or lease, if shorter.
Estimates of residual values and In testing for indications of impairment and performing impairment useful lives are reassessed annually and any change in estimate is calculations, assets are considered as collective groups and referred taken into account in the determination of remaining depreciation to as cash generating units.
Cash generating units are the smallest charges.
Depreciation commences on the date of commissioning.
identifiable group of assets, liabilities and associated goodwill that The major categories of property, plant and equipment are generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash depreciated on a unit of production and or straight-line basis inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
using estimated lives indicated below.
However, where assets are dedicated to a mine, field or lease and are not readily transferable, The impairment assessments are based on a range of estimates the below useful lives are subject to the lesser of the asset and assumptions, including: categorys useful life and the life of the mine, field or lease: Estimates assumptions: Basis: 5h W aZf % gb # lXTef 9hgheX cebWhVg ba cebiXW TaW cebUTU X eXfXeiXf ?TaW abg WXceXV TgXW resource estimates and, in C Tag TaW Xdh c`Xag & gb &# lXTef fgeT Z[g aX certain cases, expansion projects @ aXeT e Z[gf TaW UTfXW ba eXfXeiXf ba T ha g 6b``bW gl ce VXf YbejTeW `Te Xg TaW VbageTVg Petroleum interests of production basis prices, and longer-term price 6 Tc gT fXW Xkc beTg ba UTfXW ba eXfXeiXf ba protocol estimates evaluation and a unit of production basis 8kV[TaZX eTgXf VheeXag YbejTeW `Te Xg development expenditure exchange rates 7 fVbhag eTgXf Vbfg bY VTc gT e f TW]hfgXW Leased assets appropriate to the resource Assets held under leases which result in the Group receiving Overburden removal costs substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset finance leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value Overburden and other mine waste materials are often removed of the property, plant and equipment or the estimated present during the initial development of a mine site in order to access value of the minimum lease payments.
This activity is referred to as development stripping.
The directly attributable costs inclusive of an allocation The corresponding finance lease obligation is included within of relevant overhead expenditure are initially capitalised as assets interest bearing liabilities.
The interest element is allocated to under construction.
Capitalisation of development stripping costs accounting periods during the lease term to reflect a constant ceases at the time that saleable material begins to be extracted rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation.
On completion of development, all capitalised development stripping included in assets under construction are transferred to other mineral assets.
