BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are registrants with the 5.10 Market disclosure Securities and Exchange Commission in the US.
Both companies We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of are classified as foreign private issuers and both have American disclosure ensuring that all investors and potential investors Depositary Receipts listed on the NYSE.
have the same access to high-quality, relevant information We have reviewed the governance requirements currently in an accessible and timely manner to assist them in making applicable to foreign private issuers under the Sarbanes-Oxley informed decisions.
A Disclosure Committee manages our Act US including the rules promulgated by the Securities and compliance with the market disclosure obligations and Exchange Commission and the rules of the NYSE and are satisfied is responsible for implementing reporting processes and that we comply with those requirements.
controls and setting guidelines for the release of information.
Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual has instituted Disclosure Officers have been appointed in the Groups a broad regime of corporate governance requirements for CSGs and Group Functions.
These officers are responsible NYSE-listed companies.
Under the NYSE rules, foreign private for identifying and providing the Disclosure Committee with issuers, such as ourselves, are permitted to follow home country material information about the activities of the CSG or functional practice in lieu of the requirements of Section 303A, except for areas using disclosure guidelines developed by the Committee.
the rule relating to compliance with Rule 10A-3 of the Securities To safeguard the effective dissemination of information we have Exchange Act of 1934 and certain notification provisions contained developed a Market Disclosure and Communications document, in Section 303A of the Listed Company Manual.
11 which outlines how we identify and distribute information of the Listed Company Manual, however, requires us to disclose to shareholders and market participants.
any significant ways in which our corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US listed companies under the NYSE corporate governance standards.
Following a comparison A copy of the Market Disclosure and of our corporate governance practices with the requirements Communications document is available at of Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual followed www.
by domestic issuers, the following significant differences were identified: Copies of announcements to the stock exchanges on which we The NYSE rules require domestic listed companies to have a are listed, investor briefings, half-yearly financial statements, Compensation Remuneration Committee composed entirely the Annual Report and other relevant information are posted of independent directors.
The Board considers that all to the Groups website at www.
Any person members of our Remuneration Committee are independent, wishing to receive advice by email of news releases can however notes that the test of independence set out in the subscribe at www.
Boards Policy on Independence differs in some respects from that prescribed by the NYSE.
The NYSE rules permit the Group 5.11 Conformance with corporate as a foreign private issuer to follow home practice rules, both in considering the independence of Directors and in governance standards the composition of its Remuneration Committee.
Our compliance with the governance standards in our home Our Nomination Committees Terms of Reference charter jurisdictions of Australia and the UK, and with the governance do not include the purpose of developing and recommending requirements that apply to us as a result of our New York to the Board a set of corporate governance principles Stock Exchange NYSE listing, is summarised in this Corporate applicable to the corporation.
While we have a Nomination Governance Statement, the Remuneration Report, the Directors Committee, it is not specifically charged with this Report and the financial statements.
We believe that this task is integral to the governance of the Group and is therefore best dealt with The Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of by the Board as a whole.
the UK Financial Services Authority require UK-listed companies to report on the extent to which they comply with the Principles Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice, which are NYSE-listed companies to ensure that their audit committees contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code recently renamed are directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, the UK Corporate Governance Code, and explain the reasons retention and oversight of the work of the external auditor for any non-compliance.
The UK Corporate Governance Code unless the companys governing law or documents or is available at www.
other home country legal requirements require or permit shareholders to ultimately vote on or approve these matters.
The Listing Rules of the ASX require Australian-listed While the RAC is directly responsible for remuneration and companies to report on the extent to which they meet oversight of the External Auditor, the ultimate responsibility the Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations for appointment and retention of External Auditors rests published by the ASX Corporate Governance Council with our shareholders, in accordance with UK law and our ASX Principles and Recommendations and explain constitutional documents.
The RAC does, however, make the reasons for any non-compliance.
The ASX Principles recommendations to the Board on these matters, which and Recommendations are available at are in turn reported to shareholders.
au about corporate governance index.
While the Board is satisfied with its level of compliance with Both the Combined Code and the ASX Principles and the governance requirements in Australia, the UK and the US, Recommendations require the Board to consider the application it recognises that practices and procedures can always be of the relevant corporate governance principles, while recognising improved, and there is merit in continuously reviewing its own that departures from those principles are appropriate in some standards against those in a variety of jurisdictions.
We have complied with the provisions set out program of review will continue throughout the year ahead.
in Section 1 of the Combined Code and with the ASX Principles and Recommendations throughout the financial period and have continued to comply up to the date of this Annual Report.
A checklist summarising our compliance with the UK Combined Code and the ASX Principles and Recommendations has been posted to the website at www.
