7 Directors Report The information presented by the Directors in this Directors Ba 7XVX`UXe %##, jX TaabhaVXW g[Tg E b G agb ?
` gXW Report relates to BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc and Rio Tinto plc together Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton signed and their subsidiaries.
The Chairmans Review in section 1.2, binding agreements in relation to the production joint venture Chief Executive Officers Report in section 1.3 and section 1 covering the entirety of both companies Western Australian Key information, section 2 Information on the Company, iron ore assets.
The establishment of the joint venture remains section 3 Operating and financial review and prospects and subject to regulatory and shareholder approvals.
The Framework section 11 Shareholder information of this Annual Report Agreement and the binding agreements will terminate if the are each incorporated by reference into, and form part of, conditions precedent are not satisfied by 31 December 2010 this Directors Report.
unless extended by agreement of Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton.
Earlier in FY2010 15 October 2009, we announced that BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto would not proceed with any joint 7.1 Principal activities, state of affairs and venture marketing activity, which is the only material change business review to the non-binding core principles agreement signed by the parties on 5 June 2009.
The UK Companies Act 2006 requires this Directors Report to Ba, 7XVX`UXe %##, jX TaabhaVXW g[X fT X bY g[X include a fair review of the business of the Group during FY2010 Ravensthorpe Nickel Operation for US$340 million following and of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year the decision in FY2009 to ramp-down and indefinitely suspend and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing operations at Ravensthorpe.
the Group known as the business review.
In addition to Ba TahTel %#$# jX TaabhaVXW TccebiT bY XkcXaW gheX the information set out below, the information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found in the of US$434.7 million BHP Billitons share to expand mining and processing capacity at the Antamina copper and zinc following sections of this Annual Report which are each incorporated by reference into this Directors Report : mine in northern Peru.
The expansion project will increase the sites ore processing capacity by 38 per cent to 130,000 tonnes per day with first production from the expansion anticipated Section Reference in late 2011.
Higher mineral ore reserves previously reported Key performance indicators 1.4 and 3.3 in combination with the expanded processing capacity will result in a mine life extension of six years from 2023 Risk factors 1.5 until 2029.
Antamina is a joint venture between BHP Billiton Business overview 2.2 33.75 per cent, Xstrata 33.75 per cent, Teck Resources 22.5 per cent and Mitsubishi Corporation 10 per cent.
Sustainable development 2.8 Ba % TahTel %#$# jX TaabhaVXW g[Tg 5:C 5 gba XagXeXW Employees 2.10 into a definitive agreement with Athabasca Potash Inc. API Financial review 3 to acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of API, representing a total equity value of approximately C$341 million US$320 million on a fully diluted basis.
A review of the operations of the Group during FY2010, and API is a Toronto Stock Exchange listed, junior potash company the expected results of those operations in future financial that owns the Burr Project and various potash exploration years, is set out in sections 1.2, 1.3, 2.2 and 3 and other material properties in Saskatchewan, Canada.
API holds one of the in this Annual Report.
Information on the development of the largest exploration permit areas in the Saskatchewan basin, Group and likely developments in future years also appear 2 covering approximately 6,900 km.
in those sections of this Annual Report.
The Directors believe Ba %, TahTel %#$# jX TaabhaVXW 5bTeW TccebiT Ybe that to include further information on those matters and on the US$1.93 billion BHP Billiton share US$1.73 billion of strategies and expected results of the operations of the Group capital expenditure to underpin the further accelerated in this Annual Report would be likely to result in unreasonable growth of BHP Billitons Western Australia Iron Ore business.
This investment represents early expenditure for Rapid Our principal activities during FY2010 were minerals exploration, Growth Project 6 RGP6.
RGP6 is expected to increase development, production and processing in respect of bauxite, installed capacity at BHP Billitons Western Australia Iron alumina, aluminium, copper, silver, lead, zinc, molybdenum, Ore assets to 240 million tonnes per annum during calendar gold, iron ore, metallurgical coal, energy coal, nickel, manganese year 2013.
The funding will allow early procurement of long ore, manganese metal and alloys, diamonds, titanium minerals, lead time items and detailed engineering to continue the potash and uranium, and oil and gas exploration, development expansion of the inner harbour at Port Hedland, progress and production.
rail track duplication works and expansion of the Jimblebar Significant changes in the state of affairs of the Group that mining operation.
Under the binding production joint venture agreements between BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, Rio Tinto occurred during FY2010 and significant post-balance date events are set out below and in sections 2.2 and 3 of this will have the option to participate in RGP6 by paying its share of invested capital, with this decision being made Annual Report.
after the joint venture transaction is completed.
G [XeX jXeX V[TaZXf gb g[X Vb`cbf g ba bY g[X 5bTeW during FY2010, including the appointment of a new Ba &# @TeV[ %#$# jX TaabhaVXW g[Tg jX [TW eXTV[XW agreement with a significant number of customers throughout Chairman.
Jacques Nasser assumed the Chairmanship on 31 March 2010 upon the retirement of Don Argus as Asia to move existing iron ore contracts that were previously priced annually onto a shorter-term landed price equivalent Chairman and non-executive Director.
David Morgan and David Jenkins retired from the Board on 24 November 2009 basis.
The agreements reached represent the majority of BHP Billitons iron ore sales volume.
The structural change and 26 November 2009 respectively and Paul Anderson and E Gail fide Planque both retired from the Board on 31 January that these settlements represent is consistent with BHP Billiton achieving market clearing prices.
Malcolm Broomhead and Carolyn Hewson were each appointed to the Board with effect from 31 March 2010 and Ba &# haX %#$# jX jX Vb`XW g[X 4hfgeT Ta 6b`cXg g ba will seek election to the Board at the 2010 Annual General Tribunals decision to reject the application for declaration Meetings.
Mr Broomhead is a member of the Sustainability of our Mt Newman rail line while expressing our disappointment Committee and Ms Hewson is a member of the Risk and at the Tribunals decision to grant declaration of BHP Billitons Audit Committee.
Goldsworthy rail line under Part IIIA of the Trade Practices Act.
Neither of the determinations in relation to Mt Newman or Goldsworthy has been appealed.
Following the Tribunals decision, access seekers may now negotiate with BHP Billiton for access to the Goldsworthy railway.
