3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued Our objective and commitments are pursued through our 3.2 Our strategy six strategic drivers: Our objective as a corporation is to create long-term People the foundation of our business is our people.
value for shareholders through the discovery, development We require people to find resources, develop those resources, and conversion of natural resources, and the provision operate the businesses that produce our products, and of innovative customer and market-focused solutions.
then deliver those products to our customers.
Talented To achieve this, we aim to own and operate a portfolio and motivated people are our most precious resource.
of upstream, large, long-life, low-cost, expandable, Licence to operate we aim to ensure that the communities export-oriented assets across a diversified geographic in which we operate value our citizenship.
Licence to operate and commodity base, and pursue growth opportunities means win-win relationships and partnerships.
This includes consistent with our core skills by: a central focus on health, safety, environment and the W fVbiXe aZ eXfbheVXf g[ebhZ[ bhe Xkc beTg ba TVg i g Xf.
community, and making a positive difference to our host communities.
WXiX bc aZ TaW VbaiXeg aZ g[X` a bhe 6F:f. World-class assets our world-class assets provide the cash WXiX bc aZ Vhfgb`Xe TaW `Te Xg YbVhfXW fb hg baf g[ebhZ[ flows that are required to build new projects, to contribute to our Marketing arm: the economies of the countries in which we operate, to meet TWW aZ f[TeX[b WXe iT hX UXlbaW g[X VTcTV gl bY g[XfX Zebhcf our obligations to our employees, suppliers and partners, and through the activities of the Group Functions.
ultimately to pay dividends to our shareholders.
We maintain In pursuing our objective, we are guided by our commitment high-quality assets by managing them in the most effective to safety, simplicity and accountability.
Financial strength and discipline we have a solid A credit Our overriding commitment is to safety: ensuring the safety of our people, respecting our environment and the communities rating, which balances financial flexibility with the cost of finance.
Our capital management program has three priorities: in which we work.
This commitment transcends everything we do and guides every aspect of our work.
To return excess capital to shareholders.
To reinvest in our extensive pipeline of world-class projects Our commitment to simplicity and accountability allows that carry attractive rates of return regardless of the us to focus on the most important drivers of value while economic climate.
empowering our people to operate within their authority To ensure a solid balance sheet.
Project pipeline we are focused on delivering an enhanced resource endowment to underpin future generations of growth.
We have an abundance of tier one resources in stable countries that provide us with a unique set of options to deliver brownfield growth.
Growth options we use exploration, technology and our global footprint to look beyond our current pipeline to secure a foundation of growth for future generations.
We pursue growth options in several ways covering the range from extending existing operations to new projects in emerging regions, through exploration, technology and, on occasion, merger and acquisition activity.
3.3 Key measures Our management and Board monitor a range of financial and operational performance indicators, reported on a monthly basis, to measure performance over time.
Overall financial success We use several financial measures to monitor the financial success of our overall strategy.
2010 2009 2008 Profit attributable to members 12,722 5,877 15,390 Profit from operations 20,031 12,160 24,145 1 Underlying EBIT 19,719 18,214 24,282 1 2 Underlying EBIT margin 40.7% 40.1% 47.5% 2 Return on capital employed 26.4% 24.6% 37.5% Net operating cash flow US$M 17,920 18,863 17,817 2 Gearing 6.3% 12.1% 17.8% Basic earnings per share US cents 228.6 105.6 275.3 1 Underlying EBIT is profit from operations, excluding the effect of exceptional items.
1 for more information about this measure, including a reconciliation to profit from operations.
2 See section 10 for glossary definitions.
The two key measures are profit attributable to members of the BHP Billiton Group and Underlying EBIT.
Underlying EBIT is the internally defined key financial measure used by management for monitoring the performance of our operations.
We explain the calculations and why we use this measure in section 3.6.
