6 Remuneration Report 6.1 Message from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder I am happy to introduce BHP Billitons Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 June 2010.
Over the course of the year, executive remuneration has been a prominent topic with shareholders and policy makers, resulting in significant changes to corporate governance requirements.
Against this background, the Committee continued to assess the effectiveness of our remuneration policy.
We believe that it remains fundamentally sound.
Our remuneration policy is designed to deliver strong alignment of interests between the executives and the shareholder.
Our policy reflects effective management of business risk and is consistent with the implementation of our business strategy.
The assessment of performance is concluded through a balanced scorecard of measures encompassing financial performance, Health, Safety, Environment and Community HSEC together with effective capital deployment and individual performance.
The total remuneration policy reflects the drivers of sustainable shareholder return, with the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP providing direct alignment to the generation of superior shareholder returns.
For FY2011, we are proposing a small number of changes to the executive LTIP.
The LTIP has been in place since 2004 with minimal alteration during a period of considerable industry change.
The Committee completed a thorough review of the LTIP in FY2010.
We concluded that the core structure of the plan is robust and remains appropriate.
In particular, we concluded that performance assessed against relative TSR primarily based on our industry sector and that the challenging five-year performance measurement period should be retained.
The proposed enhancements to the LTIP reflect BHP Billitons portfolio and strategy today and strengthen the alignment of participants with the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
Our review identified the need to address the inherent counter cyclicality and excess leverage in the plan.
This is achieved by introducing some modest vesting at median and a second relative TSR benchmark measured against a general market index.
The effect of the proposals will not weaken the performance requirements.
Targets remain stretching, requiring material outperformance of both the sector and market index.
The proposals will reduce the volatility of reward outcomes and reduce the maximum outcome in exchange for a higher possibility of some vesting.
As in prior years, we have strived to produce a Remuneration Report that is clear and concise, meeting regulatory requirements, providing you with the information required to assess the linkage between executive remuneration and company performance.
John Buchanan Chairman, Remuneration Committee 7 September 2010 a T TeZX Vb`cbaXag bY cTl gb bhe cXeYbe`TaVX TaW g[X 6.2 Remuneration strategy creation of value for our shareholders: This section outlines the overarching approach and framework XafheX eX`haXeTg ba TeeTaZX`Xagf TeX Xdh gTU X TaW that guides remuneration arrangements for senior executives, facilitate the deployment of people around our businesses: including the GMC members.
Details of GMC membership are ` g fXiXeTaVX cTl`Xagf ba gXe` aTg ba gb ceX XfgTU f[XW included in section 6.4.
1. contractual arrangements which do not commit us to making any unjustified payments.
1 Remuneration principles The Remuneration Committee is confident that these principles, The key principles of our remuneration policy are to: which were applied in the year under review and are expected fhccbeg g[X XkXVhg ba bY g[X :ebhcf Uhf aXff fgeTgXZl to be applied in FY2011 and beyond, continue to meet the in accordance with a risk-appetite that is appropriate for Groups objectives.
the organisation: cebi WX Vb`cXg g iX eXjTeWf gb TggeTVg `bg iTgX TaW eXgT a highly skilled executives willing to work around the world: T cc l WX`TaW aZ Xl cXeYbe`TaVX `XTfheXf aV hW aZ financial and non-financial measures of performance: BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | 151
