7 Terms of appointment Some of the Directors hold or previously held positions in The Board has adopted a letter of appointment that contains companies with which we have commercial relationships.
the terms on which non-executive Directors will be appointed, Those positions and companies are set out in section 4.1 including the basis upon which they will be indemnified.
The Board has assessed all of the The letter of appointment clearly defines the role of Directors, relationships between the Group and companies in which including the expectations in terms of independence, Directors hold or held positions and has concluded that in participation, time commitment and continuous improvement.
all cases, the relationships do not interfere with the Directors In summary, Directors are expected to constructively challenge: exercise of objective, unfettered or independent judgement set values and standards of the Group: monitor the performance or their ability to act in the best interests of our business.
of management: monitor the adequacy and integrity of A specific instance is Alan Boeckmann, who is the Chairman financial statements: and satisfy themselves that the systems and CEO of Fluor Corporation, a company with which BHP Billiton for the identification and management of risk are robust and has commercial dealings.
Fluor Corporation operates in the appropriate.
Directors are also expected to commit sufficient engineering, procurement, construction and project management time to carry out their role and to participate in continuous sectors, and it is Mr Boeckmanns breadth of current management improvement programs and internal review to support ongoing experience across these sectors that brings significant value to development.
The letter of appointment also makes it clear that the Board.
Prior to and since the appointment of Mr Boeckmann Directors are required to disclose circumstances that may affect, as a Director, the Board has assessed the relationships between or be perceived to affect, their ability to exercise independent BHP Billiton and Fluor Corporation and remains satisfied that judgement so that the Board can assess independence Mr Boeckmann is able to apply objective, unfettered and on a regular basis.
independent judgement and act in the best interests of the BHP Billiton Group notwithstanding his role with Fluor Corporation.
In addition, no commercial dealings with Fluor A copy of the letter of appointment is available at www.
Corporation were discussed at Board or Board Committee level, and to the extent they are in the future, Mr Boeckmann will absent himself fully from those deliberations.
8 Induction and training Transactions during the year that amounted to related-party The Board considers that the development of Group and industry transactions with Directors or Director-related entities knowledge is a continuous and ongoing process.
under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Upon appointment, each new non-executive Director undertakes are outlined in note 30 Key Management Personnel an induction program specifically tailored to their needs.
Executive Director A copy of an indicative induction program is available The executive Director, Marius Kloppers, is not considered at www.
independent because of his executive responsibilities.
Mr Kloppers does not hold directorships in any other Non-executive Directors undertake to participate in company included in the ASX 100 or FTSE 100. continuous improvement programs, as required by their terms of appointment.
Conflicts of interest The UK Companies Act requires that BHP Billiton Directors avoid Structured opportunities for improvement are provided to a situation where they have, or can have, an unauthorised direct continuously build a Directors knowledge.
During the year, or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with non-executive Directors participated in development the companys interests.
In accordance with the UK Companies activities, including: Act, BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association were amended at Uhf aXff Ue XY aZf agXaWXW gb cebi WX XTV[ 7 eXVgbe j g[ the 2008 Annual General Meetings to allow the Directors to a deeper understanding of the activities, environment and authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where appropriate.
key issues and direction of Customer Sector Groups CSGs : A procedure operates to ensure the disclosure of conflicts and WXiX bc`Xag fXff baf ba fcXV Y V gbc Vf bY eX XiTaVX for the consideration and, if appropriate, the authorisation of such as climate change, commodity markets and them by non-conflicted Directors.
The Nomination Committee changes in corporate governance standards: supports the Board in this process, both by reviewing requests i f gf gb Xl f gXf.
from Directors for authorisation of situations of actual or TWWeXffXf Ul XkgXeaT fcXT Xef j[b TeX ZXaXeT l XkcXegf potential conflict and making recommendations to the Board in their field.
and by regularly reviewing any situations of actual or potential conflict that have previously been authorised by the Board and In addition, each non-executive Director has an individual making recommendations regarding whether the authorisation development plan in order to provide a personalised approach remains appropriate.
In addition, in accordance with Australian to updating the Directors skills and knowledge.
The program law, if a situation arises for consideration in which a Director has is designed to maximise the effectiveness of the Directors a material personal interest, the affected Director takes no part throughout their tenure and links in with their individual in decision-making.
performance reviews discussed further in section 5.4.
The training and development program covers not only 5.3.
6 Senior Independent Director matters of a business nature, but also matters falling into the environmental, social and governance ESG area.
The Board has appointed John Buchanan as the Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc in accordance with The Nomination Committee has oversight of the Directors the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Dr Buchanan is available Training and Development Program.
The benefit of this to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed approach is that induction and learning opportunities can through the Chairman, CEO or CFO.
Dr Buchanan, as Senior be tailored to Directors Committee memberships and that Independent Director, also provides a sounding board the process in relation to Committee composition, succession for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for other and training and development is coordinated to ensure a link Directors if necessary.
Dr Buchanan, as Senior Independent with the Nomination Committees role in securing the supply Director, oversaw the Chairman succession process.
