3 Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committee met six times during the year.
The Nomination Committee also has oversight of training and Information on meeting attendance by Committee members development activity for all Directors.
The Board considers this is included in the table in section 5.4.
1. enhances the Committees ongoing consideration and review in relation to the appropriate skills mix for the Board.
Nomination Committee members during the year Activities undertaken during the year Name Status There were changes to the composition of the Board during the year.
Malcolm Broomhead and Carolyn Hewson joined 1 Don Argus Chairman Member and Chairman the Board on 31 March 2010 following the retirement of to 30 March 2010 Paul Anderson and Gail fide Planque on 31 January 2010.
Jacques Nasser Chairman Member and Chairman David Morgan and David Jenkins retired from the Board from 31 March 2010 in November 2009 and Don Argus retired as Chairman and non-executive Director on 30 March 2010.
As discussed in John Buchanan Member for whole period section 5.4.
3, the Nomination Committee played a significant John Schubert Member for whole period role supporting the Board during the Chairman succession 1 process at which time John Buchanan, as Senior Independent The Committee was chaired by John Buchanan while the succession Director, chaired the meeting.
Jacques Nasser assumed the of the Board Chairman was being considered.
role of Chairman on 31 March 2010, bringing the Chairman Role and focus succession process to a conclusion.
The Committee retained the services of Heidrick & Struggles and Egon Zehnder to The role of the Committee is to assist in ensuring that the assist in the identification of potential candidates for the Board comprises individuals who are best able to discharge Board.
The Committee also oversaw the Director training the responsibilities of a Director, having regard to the highest and development program and the induction of new Directors standards of governance.
It does so by focusing on: see section 5.3.
8 for further information on Director induction reviewing the skills represented on the Board and identifying and training.
skills that may be required: During the year, the Committee assessed its performance.
retaining the services of independent search firms and As a result of that assessment, the Committee is satisfied identifying suitable candidates possessing the skills that it is functioning effectively and it has met its Terms identified by the skills analysis referred to above for of Reference.
the Board: overseeing the review of the assessment of the performance of individual Directors and making recommendations to the Board on the endorsement of retiring Directors seeking re-election see section 5.4.
2 : the plan for succession of the Chairman and the CEO and the periodic evaluation of it: the provision of appropriate training and development opportunities for Directors: supporting the Board in its review and, where appropriate, authorisation of actual and potential conflicts see section 5.3.
5 : communicating to shareholders regarding the work of the Committee on behalf of the Board.
