7.9 Environmental performance 7.14 Value of land Particulars in relation to environmental performance are Much of our interest in land consists of leases and other referred to in sections 2.8, 3.3 and 7.22 of this Annual rights that permit the working of such land and the erection Report and in the Sustainability Report and the Sustainability of buildings and equipment thereon for the purpose of extracting Supplementary Information, available at www.
Such land is mainly carried in the accounts at cost and it is not possible to estimate the market value, as this depends on product prices over the long term, which will vary 7.10 Corporate Governance with market conditions.
The UK Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2 require that certain information 7.15 Political and charitable donations be included in a corporate governance statement set out in the Directors Report.
BHP Billiton has an existing practice No political contributions or donations for political purposes of issuing a separate corporate governance statement as part were made during FY2010.
We made charitable donations of its Annual Report.
The information required by the Disclosure for the purposes of funding community programs in the and Transparency Rules and the UK Financial Services Authoritys United Kingdom of US$250,946 cash 2009: US$220,685 Listing Rules LR 9.8.
6 is located in section 5 of this Annual and worldwide, including in-kind support and administrative Report, with the exception of the information referred to in DTR cost totalling US$200,452,251 2009: US$197,838,573.
6, which is located in section 7.23 of this Annual Report.
The total amount of charitable donations made worldwide in FY2010 includes US$80 million contributed to a trust registered with the UK Charities Commission established 7.11 Dividends for the purposes of funding community investment globally.
A final dividend of 45.0 US cents per share will be paid on 30 September 2010.
Details of the dividends paid and 7.16 Exploration, research and development the dividend policy are set out in sections 3.7.
6 and 11.3 of this Annual Report.
Companies within the Group carry out exploration and research and development necessary to support their activities.
Further details are provided in sections 7.12 Auditors 2.5 and 2.6 of this Annual Report.
A resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as the auditor of BHP Billiton Plc will be proposed at the 2010 Annual General 7.17 Creditor payment policy Meetings in accordance with section 489 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
When we enter into a contract with a supplier, payment terms A copy of the declaration given by our External Auditor to will be agreed when the contract begins and the supplier will the Directors in relation to the auditors compliance with the be made aware of these terms.
We do not have a specific policy independence requirements of the Australian Corporations Act towards our suppliers and do not follow any code or standard 2001 and the professional code of conduct for External Auditors practice.
However, we settle terms of payment with suppliers is set out on page 268 of this Annual Report.
when agreeing overall terms of business, and seek to abide by the terms of the contracts to which we are bound.
As at No person who was an officer of BHP Billiton during FY2010 30 June 2010, BHP Billiton Plc the unconsolidated parent entity was a director or partner of the Groups External Auditor at had US$101,000 of trade creditors outstanding which represents a time when the Groups External Auditor conducted an audit 10 days purchases outstanding in respect of costs, based of the Group.
on the total invoiced by suppliers during FY2010.
Each person who held the office of Director at the date the Board resolved to approve this Directors Report makes 7.18 Class order the following statements: f b YTe Tf g[X 7 eXVgbe f TjTeX g[XeX f ab eX XiTag ThW g BHP Billiton Limited is a company of a kind referred to in information of which the Groups External Auditor is unaware: Australian Securities and Investments Commission Class Order g[X 7 eXVgbe [Tf gT Xa T fgXcf g[Tg [X be f[X bhZ[g gb [TiX No.
Amounts in this Directors Report and the financial statements, except estimates of future taken as a Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups expenditure or where otherwise indicated, have been rounded to the nearest million dollars in accordance with that Class Order.
External Auditor is aware of that information.
7.13 Non-audit services 7.19 Proceedings on behalf of BHP Billiton Limited Details of the non-audit services undertaken by our External No proceedings have been brought on behalf of BHP Billiton Limited, nor any application made under section 237 of the Auditor, including the amounts paid for non-audit services, are set out in note 34 Auditors remuneration in the financial Australian Corporations Act 2001. statements of this Annual Report.
Based on advice provided by the Risk and Audit Committee, the Directors have formed the view that the provision of non-audit services is compatible with the general standard of independence for auditors, and that the nature of non-audit services means that auditor independence was not compromised.
Further information about our policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditor is set out in section 5.5.
