Australian Foreign Investment Review Board 2.11 Organisational structure FIRB conditions 2.11.1 General The Treasurer of Australia approved the DLC merger subject The BHP Billiton Group consists of the BHP Billiton Limited to certain conditions, the effect of which was to require that, Group and the BHP Billiton Plc Group as a combined enterprise, among other things, BHP Billiton Limited continues to: following the completion of the Dual Listed Company DLC UX Ta 4hfgeT Ta Vb`cTal j[ V[ f `TaTZXW Yeb` 4hfgeT T. merger in June 2001.
Refer to note 25 Subsidiaries in the h g `TgX l `TaTZX TaW Vbageb g[X Vb`cTa Xf VbaWhVg aZ financial statements for a list of BHP Billiton Limited and the business that was conducted by it at the time of BHP Billiton Plc significant subsidiaries.
the merger for as long as those businesses form part The BHP Billiton DLC merger was designed to place shareholders of the BHP Billiton Group.
of both companies in a position where they effectively have an The conditions have effect indefinitely, subject to amendment interest in a single group that combines the assets and is subject of the Australian Foreign Acquisitions Takeover Act 1975 or to the liabilities of both companies.
BHP Billiton Limited and any revocation or amendment by the Treasurer of Australia.
BHP Billiton Plc have each retained their separate corporate If BHP Billiton Limited no longer wishes to comply with these identities and maintained separate stock exchange listings, conditions, it must obtain the prior approval of the Treasurer.
but they are operated and managed as if they are a single Failure to comply with the conditions attracts substantial unified economic entity, with their boards and senior executive penalties under the Act.
management comprising the same people.
Equalisation of economic and voting rights 2.11.2 DLC structure BHP Billiton Limited shareholders and BHP Billiton Plc The principles of the BHP Billiton DLC are reflected in the shareholders have economic and voting interests in the BHP Billiton Sharing Agreement and include the following: combined BHP Billiton Group.
The economic and voting interests the two companies are to operate as if they are a single unified represented by a share in one company relative to the economic economic entity, through Boards of Directors that comprise the and voting interests of a share in the other company is determined same individuals and a unified senior executive management: by reference to a ratio known as the Equalisation Ratio.
g[X 7 eXVgbef bY Ubg[ Vb`cTa Xf j a TWW g ba gb g[X e Presently, the economic and voting interests attached to each duties to the company concerned, have regard to the interests BHP Billiton Limited share and each BHP Billiton Plc share are the of BHP Billiton Limited shareholders and BHP Billiton Plc same, since the Equalisation Ratio is 1:1.
The Equalisation Ratio shareholders as if the two companies were a single unified would change if either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc economic entity and, for that purpose, the Directors of each returned value to only its shareholders and no matching action company take into account in the exercise of their powers were taken.
the interests of the shareholders of the other: and This means that the amount of any cash dividend paid by V XegT a 7?6 XdhT fTg ba ce aV c Xf `hfg UX bUfXeiXW!
G[XfX TeX BHP Billiton Limited in respect of each BHP Billiton Limited designed to ensure that for so long as the Equalisation Ratio share is normally matched by an equivalent cash dividend by between a BHP Billiton Limited share and a BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton Plc in respect of each BHP Billiton Plc share, and share is 1:1, the economic and voting interests in the combined vice versa.
If one company has insufficient profits or is otherwise BHP Billiton Group resulting from the holding of one unable to pay the agreed dividend, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Limited share are equivalent to that resulting from BHP Billiton Plc will, as far as practicable, enter into such one BHP Billiton Plc share.
Further details are set out in the transactions as are necessary so as to enable both companies sub-section Equalisation of economic and voting rights below.
to pay the amount of pre-tax dividends per share.
Additional documents that affect the DLC include: Joint Electorate Actions 5:C 5 gba ?
` gXW 6bafg ghg ba Under the terms of the DLC agreements, the BHP Billiton Limited 5:C 5 gba C V @X`beTaWh` TaW 4eg V Xf bY 4ffbV Tg ba Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association 5:C 5 gba FcXV T Ibg aZ F[TeXf 7XXW special voting arrangements have been implemented so that 5:C 5 gba ?
` gXW 7XXW Cb :hTeTagXX the shareholders of both companies vote together as a single 5:C 5 gba C V 7XXW Cb :hTeTagXX!
decision-making body on matters affecting the shareholders of each company in similar ways such matters are referred to as Joint Electorate Actions.
For so long as the Equalisation Ratio remains 1:1, each BHP Billiton Limited share will effectively have the same voting rights as each BHP Billiton Plc share on Joint Electorate Actions.
A Joint Electorate Action requires approval by ordinary resolution or special resolution if required by statute, regulation, applicable listing rules or other applicable requirements of BHP Billiton Limited, with both the BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shareholders and the holder of the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share voting as a single class and also of BHP Billiton Plc, with the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shareholders and the holder of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share voting as a single class.
