A discip lin ed and prudent approach Alex Vanselow Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer Global markets have remained volatile during FY2010 and We continued to invest in growing our we remain cautious on the global economy.
Our financial portfolio of tier one assets and continue discipline throughout the global financial crisis has meant with our progressive dividend policy, that we retained a strong balance sheet, allowing us to continue to invest in further growth.
while maintaining a solid A credit rating The Groups focus on tier one, large, low-cost, long-life assets throughout the economic cycle.
diversified by product, geography and market contributed to our strength during the recent periods of high global market volatility and continues to provide scope for internal growth investment.
The capacity to generate sustainable internal growth is a key element in our strategic goal of achieving superior shareholder returns over the long term.
Our FY2010 net gearing ratio of 6.3 per cent was achieved while increasing our capital and exploration expenditure.
US$4.8 billion This low gearing level also ensures we retain the flexibility dividends declared.
to look at external growth on an opportunistic basis.
Our policy of returning excess cash to shareholders after investing in growth and maintaining the balance sheet in line with the solid A credit rating remains intact.
Dividends declared by BHP Billiton in FY2010 represent a US$4.8 billion return of capital to shareholders.
We have maintained our commitment to the progressive dividend policy with our full year dividends of 87 US cents per share being a 6.1 per cent increase on the FY2009 dividend of 82 US cents per share.
In addition, our FY2010 full year dividends have increased 24.3 per cent since the financial crisis commenced in FY2008 70 US cents per share, differentiating us from other companies in our sector during this period that cut or suspended their dividends to repair their balance sheets.
Marketing Office Singapore A focus on the optimisation and growth of our international portfolio of low-cost, world-class operations has positioned us to capitalise on improved demand during FY2010.
We continue to invest through the economic cycle and to replenish our growth pipeline.
20 | BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2010 Alberto Calderon Group Executive and Chief Commercial Officer Our marketing organisation seeks to respond to our customers Our Marketing team is responsible needs and to support our operating assets.
It is designed for selling the Groups products and around trading and marketing units, which are aligned with for purchasing all major raw materials.
the Groups Customer Sector Groups, and our activities and people are centralised in strategic commercial centres around The role encompasses ownership of the the world Singapore, The Hague in the Netherlands and supply chain from assets to markets and Antwerp in Belgium.
raw materials from suppliers to assets.
These marketing hubs incorporate all of the functions required to manage product distribution, marketing and risk management from finished goods to final customer delivery.
In addition to our central hub marketing teams, we have many specialised marketers located in regional offices close to our customers, ensuring we meet their needs and understand the markets in which we operate.
Marketing is focused Our market insight is enhanced by the multi-commodity nature on supporting our assets of our business, our proximity to our customers and the ease of flow of information in our centralised marketing structure.
in their drive to operate at full capacity.
Marketing is focused on supporting our assets in their drive to operate at full capacity and on securing the market clearing price of the day in the sale of our products.
This year saw a major step forward in the meeting of this latter objective as international pricing of iron ore, coking coal and manganese moved from annual benchmark price settlements to shorter-term pricing, much more aligned to market clearing prices.
The move will enable these markets to operate more efficiently, with pricing reflecting true supply and demand fundamentals, and with the most economic incremental supply capacity induced to the market.
This is aligned with the Group objective of owning low-cost, long-life assets, operating them at full capacity and selling products into globally integrated markets.
Marketing Office The Hague Our product offering is enhanced by BHP Billiton Marketings capabilities in trading, commercial structuring, distribution and logistics.
Marketing teams centralised in The Hague, Singapore and Antwerp support our nine core businesses and serve a wide and dispersed customer base, interacting with both customers and suppliers on a daily basis.
