Our Pilbara reserve base is relatively concentrated, allowing Development projects us to plan our development around a series of integrated Cerro Matoso Nickel Ore Smelting System mining hubs joined to the orebodies by conveyors or spur During FY2010, the Nickel Ore Smelting System project was lines.
The mining hub approach enables us to maximise the approved to progress into execution phase.
The project will value of installed infrastructure by using the same processing deliver a replacement of the 27-year-old Line 1 furnace to plant and rail infrastructure for a number of orebodies.
Blending improve operational reliability and accommodate changes ore at the hub gives us greater flexibility to respond to changing in the mineralogy of the ore feed.
The construction phase customer requirements and changing properties in the ore being will take approximately six months, followed by heating mined, as well as reducing the risk of port bottlenecks.
and ramp-up of the new furnace over a further three months.
In conjunction with our capacity expansion, we have continued The shutdown is planned to commence during the second to explore and refine our understanding of existing tenements.
Our proven ore reserves are high-grade, with average iron Cerro Matoso expansion options content ranging from 57.1 per cent at Yandi to 63.0 per cent at Mt Newman.
The reserve lives of our mines at current Cerro Matoso has undertaken conceptual studies on options production levels range from 11 years at Mt Goldsworthy for expanding production, including a heap leaching operation.
JV Northern to 72 years at Jimblebar.
A completed feasibility study and Board approval would be required before any project based on these studies proceeds.
Samarco Mt Keith Talc co-processing We are a 5050 joint venture partner with Vale at the Samarco operations in Brazil.
During the FY2008, Samarco completed In September 2009 the Mt Keith Talc re-design project was an expansion project consisting of a third pellet plant, a mine approved to move into execution phase.
This will enable expansion, a new concentrator, port enhancements and Mt Keith to process talcose ore to supplement the current ore a second slurry pipeline.
The general scope of this project is the installation of additional grinding and flotation equipment within the existing In FY2010, our share of production was 10.35 million tonnes of circuits at Mt Keith and the addition of a high magnesium oxide pellets.
Samarcos total ore reserve is about 2.11 billion tonnes.
This project allows us to treat In addition, Samarco completed the selection pre-feasibility talcose ores which make up approximately 15 per cent of the study for its fourth pellet plant which is expected to increase Mt Keith orebody and which were not previously able to be the iron ore pellet capacity by 8.2 million tonnes per annum to processed economically with existing technology.
The project is 30.7 million tonnes per annum 100 per cent share.
This project expected to be commissioned in the second quarter of FY2012.
is still subject to shareholder and Samarco Board approval.
7 Iron Ore Customer Sector Group Our Iron Ore CSG consists of our Western Australia Iron Ore WAIO business and a 50 per cent interest in the Samarco joint venture in Brazil.
Western Australia Iron Ore WAIOs operations involve a complex integrated system of seven mines and more than 1,000 kilometres of rail infrastructure and port facilities, all located in the Pilbara region of northern Western Australia.
Our strategy is to maximise output utilising available infrastructure at our disposal.
In response to increasing demand for iron ore, we have been expanding our WAIO operations.
Since 2001, we have completed six expansion projects to increase our system production capacity from 69 million tonnes per annum to 155 million tonnes per annum 100 per cent basis.
We now have a project under construction to further increase system capacity to 205 million tonnes per annum 100 per cent basis.
Additional projects now undergoing pre-feasibility or feasibility studies would further increase system capacity.
Our share of FY2010 production was 113.9 million tonnes of ore. BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | 39 2 Information on the Company continued Information on Iron Ore mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
2 and reserve tables see section 2.14.2.
Name, location, mineralisation Ownership, operation style, type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source Mt Newman joint venture We hold an 85% interest in Production began at the The Newman Hub consists of the Mt Newman joint venture.
Mt Whaleback orebody in 1969. primary and secondary crushing Pilbara region, Western The other 15% is held by and screening plants capacity Australia, Australia Production continues to Mitsui ITOCHU Iron 10%, of 58 mtpa : a heavy media be sourced from the major Mt Newman joint venture iron ore ITOCHU Minerals and Energy beneficiation plant, stockyard Mt Whaleback orebody, products are derived from bedded of Australia 5%.
blending facility, a single complemented by production ore types.
These are classified cell rotary car-dumper, We are the operators of from orebodies 18, 23, 25, 29 as per the host Archaean or and train-loading facility.
Proterozoic iron formation, which Independent contractors At orebody 23 25, primary are Brockman, Marra Mamba First ore from the Newman Hub operate the mining of orebodies and secondary crushing and and Nimingarra.
as part of our RGP4 construction 18, 23, 25, 29 and 30. screening plant.
Open-cut mine Mining lease under the Iron Ore Power comes from Alinta Dewaps The mines are accessible by public Mt Newman Agreement Act Newman gas-fired power station road and Company-owned rail to 1964, expires in 2030 with via Company-owned powerlines the joint ventures Nelson Point the right to successive renewals under long-term contracts.
shipping facility at Port Hedland.
Yandi joint venture We hold an 85% interest in the We began development of Two processing plants and a Yandi joint venture.
The first primary crusher and overland Pilbara region, Western 15% is held by Mitsui Iron Ore shipment occurred in 1992. conveyor are used to crush and Australia, Australia Corporation 7%, ITOCHU screen ore and deliver it to one Capacity was progressively Yandi joint venture iron ore Minerals and Energy of two train-loading facilities.
expanded between 1994 products are derived from bedded of Australia 8%.
and 2003 and production Power comes from Alinta Dewaps and channel ore types.
Bedded An independent contract is currently 41 mtpa.
Newman gas-fired power station ores are classified as per the mining company is the operator via Company owned powerlines host Proterozoic banded iron of the mine.
formation names, which for Yandi is Brockman and Channel Mining lease under the Iron Ore Iron Deposits are Cainozoic Marillana Creek Agreement Act fluvial sediments.
1991 expires in 2012 with renewal right to a further 42 years.
Open-cut mine The mines are accessible by public road and Company-owned rail to the Finucane Island shipping facility and Nelson Point shipping facility at Port Hedland.
Our railway spur links Yandi mine to the Newman main line.
Jimblebar We own 100% of the Jimblebar Production at Jimblebar began Primary and secondary crushing lease.
We have a sublease in March 1989. plant capacity of 14 mtpa.
Pilbara region, Western agreement over the Wheelara Australia, Australia The ore currently being produced Power comes from Alinta Dewaps deposit with ITOCHU Minerals is blended with ore produced from Newman gas-fired power station Jimblebar iron ore products are and Energy of Australia, Mt Whaleback and satellite via Company-owned powerlines derived from bedded ore types.
Mitsui Iron Ore and four separate orebodies 18, 23, 25, 29 and 30 under long-term contracts.
These are classified based on subsidiaries of Chinese to create the Mt Newman blend.
the host Archaean or Proterozoic steelmakers.
As a consequence banded iron formation names, of this arrangement, we are which are Brockman and entitled to 85% of production Marra Mamba.
Open-cut mine An independent contract The mine is accessible by public mining company is the operator road and Company-owned rail of the mine.
to Port Hedland via a 32 km Mining lease under the Iron Ore spur line linking with the main McCameys Monster Agreement Newman to Port Hedland railway.
Authorisation Act 1972 expires in 2030 with the rights to successive renewals of 21 years.
40 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Information on Iron Ore mining operations continued Name, location, mineralisation Ownership, operation style, type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source We hold an 85% interest in the Operations originally commenced The primary crushers at Yarrie Mt Goldsworthy joint venture Mt Goldsworthy joint venture.
at the Mt Goldsworthy project and Nimingarra, with a combined Pilbara region, Western The other 15% is held by Mitsui in 1966 and the Shay Gap mine capacity of 8 mtpa, have been Australia, Australia Iron Ore Corporation 7% and in 1973.
The original Goldsworthy placed into care and maintenance.
Mt Goldsworthy joint venture ITOCHU Minerals and Energy mine closed in 1982 and the Yarrie is currently using mobile iron ore products are derived of Australia 8%.
associated Shay Gap mine closed in-pit crushing plant at a rate from bedded ore types.
Mining at the Nimingarra of 2 mtpa.
An independent contract mining classified as per the host Archaean mine ceased in 2007 and has since company is the operator of An ore processing plant, primary or Proterozoic iron formation continued from the adjacent the mine.
crusher and overland conveyor names, which are Brockman, Yarrie area.
are located at Area C with Marra Mamba and Nimingarra.
Four mineral leases under We opened Area C mine in 2003. capacity of 42 mtpa.
the Iron Ore Mt Goldsworthy Open-cut mine includes Area C, Agreement Act 1964 and the Iron Power for Yarrie and Nimingarra Yarrie and Nimingarra.
Ore Goldsworthy Nimingarra is sourced via overhead The mines are accessible by public Agreement Act 1972, which have powerlines from the Port Hedland road and Company-owned rail to expiry dates between 2014 and gas-fired powered station the joint ventures Finucane Island 2028 with rights to successive operated by Alinta Dewap shipping facilities and the Nelson renewals of 21 years.
Point shipping facilities, both A number of smaller mining leases Area C sources its power from the located at Port Hedland.
granted under the Mining Act Newman gas-fired power station Our railway spur links Area C 1978 in 2005 expiring in 2026. also operated by Alinta Dewap mine to the Newman main line.
Samarco We own 50% of Samarco.
Production began at the Germano There are two 396 km iron ore The other 50% is owned by mine in 1977 and at the Alegria slurry pipelines integrating the Southeast Brazil Vale.
Samarco is operated as complex in 1992.
The Alegria mining complex to pellet plants.
Samarco iron ore products an independent business with complex has now replaced the With the addition of the third are derived from Itabirites its own management team.
pellet plant expansion, Samarco metamorphic quartz-hematite The Brazilian Government An expansion occurred in 1997 has the capacity to process and rock and friable hematite ores.
has granted mining concessions when a second pellet plant was pump a total of 24 mtpa of ore Open-cut mine to Samarco as long as it mines built.
In 2005, an optimisation concentrate and produce and The mine is accessible by public the Alegria complex according project increased pellet feed ship approximately 22.5 mtpa road.
Conveyor belts transport to an agreed plan.
iron ore to the beneficiation The most recent expansion Samarco holds interests in two plant and a 396 km slurry occurred in 2008 when a third hydro-electric power plants.
pipeline transports pellet feed pellet plant was built as well These plants furnish to the pellet plants on the coast.
approximately 19.2% of Samarcos Iron pellets are exported via electricity requirements.
Samarco has signed two agreements expiring in 2014 to purchase remaining power needs from two local concessionaires that operate other hydro-electric power plants.
