2 Information on the Company continued 2.7.
3 Exchange controls and shareholding limits continued These documents highlight four key components of sustainable development: The FATA also empowers the Treasurer to make certain orders :XT g[ YbVhf aZ ba g[X X ` aTg ba bY e f f g[ebhZ[ g[X prohibiting acquisitions by foreign persons in BHP Billiton Limited control of potential workplace exposures to noise and and requiring divestiture if the acquisition has occurred where substances which could result in long-term harm.
he considers the acquisition to be contrary to the national interest and the 15 per cent threshold referred to above would FTYXgl cebi W aZ T jbe c TVX j[XeX cXbc X VTa jbe without being injured.
Such orders may also be made in respect of acquisitions by foreign persons where two or more foreign 8ai eba`Xag WX iXe aZ XYY V Xag eXfbheVX hfX eXWhV aZ TaW persons and their associates in aggregate already control preventing pollution and enhancing biodiversity protection.
40 per cent or more of the issued shares or voting power in 6b``ha gl XaZTZ aZ j g[ g[bfX TYYXVgXW Ul bhe bcXeTg baf BHP Billiton Limited.
including employees, contractors and communities: and respecting and upholding fundamental human rights.
There are certain other statutory restrictions, and restrictions under BHP Billiton Limiteds Constitution and BHP Billiton Plcs Health Articles of Association, that apply generally to acquisitions The health and wellbeing of our people is central to our business of shares in BHP Billiton i. e. the restrictions are not targeted at foreign persons only.
These include restrictions on a person success.
Our focus is on eliminating risks through the control of workplace exposures to noise and substances, such as silica, and associates breaching a voting power threshold of: manganese, diesel exhaust particulate and coal tar pitch, which % # cXe VXag a eX Tg ba gb 5:C 5 gba ?
` gXW ba T fgTaW T baX may result in long-term harm.
basis, i. e. calculated as if there were no special voting share and only counting BHP Billiton Limiteds ordinary shares.
Our approach is to identify and manage sources of exposure & # cXe VXag bY 5:C 5 gba C V!
G[ f f g[X g[eXf[b W Ybe T to reduce the minimum number of people required to undertake mandatory offer under Rule 9 of the UK takeover code and additional protective measures, such as the wearing of personal this threshold applies to all voting rights of BHP Billiton Plc protective equipment.
Our Health GLD requires all operations to therefore including voting rights attached to the establish and maintain the exposure risk profile of all personnel BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share.
to harmful agents and then implement appropriate controls.
Controls are prioritised on the basis of the potential health & # cXe VXag a eX Tg ba gb 5:C 5 gba C V ba T fgTaW T baX consequence of the exposure and operations are required to basis, i. e. calculated as if there were no special voting share maintain and monitor their effectiveness.
and only counting BHP Billiton Plcs ordinary shares.
% # cXe VXag a eX Tg ba gb g[X 5:C 5 gba :ebhc VT Vh TgXW Significant community-based health risks, such as HIV AIDS and having regard to all the voting power on a joint electorate malaria, also exist in our business.
We continue to contribute to basis, i. e. calculated on the aggregate of BHP Billiton Limiteds the management of these issues, on both a local and global basis.
and BHP Billiton Plcs ordinary shares.
Safety Under BHP Billiton Limiteds Constitution and BHP Billiton Plcs Providing a safe and healthy workplace and ensuring our Articles of Association, sanctions for breach of any of these activities do not adversely impact on our host communities thresholds, other than by means of certain permitted are core values.
acquisitions, include withholding of dividends, voting restrictions and compulsory divestment of shares to the extent Despite strong performance improvement across the a shareholder and its associates exceed the relevant threshold.
organisation, sadly we experienced the loss of five colleagues at our operated sites during the year.
2.8 Sustainable Development Health, Safety, In FY2010, we completed the integration of our catastrophic Environment and Community risk and risk management procedures into a single process.
This process requires that for all material risks critical controls As the worlds largest diversified natural resources company, are identified, performance standards set and critical control our operations touch every corner of the globe.
and embrace our responsibility to consider and respond to the Our Total Recordable Injury Frequency TRIF for FY2010 was needs of many different stakeholders.
5.3 per million hours worked TRIF includes fatalities, lost-time Our Charter sets out what we value.
In particular, we must cases, restricted work cases and medical treatment cases.
remain committed to ensuring the safety of our people, respecting our environment and the communities where Environment we work.
We own and operate a diverse range of businesses in different In addition to the wider Group corporate governance processes, countries around the world that, by their nature, have the we have systems in place to implement our policy commitment potential to affect the environment.
The Sustainability Committee Effective strategies to address the issues associated with of the Board continues to oversee our sustainability strategy, climate change must include policies that provide a path to policy, initiatives and activities.
Management holds primary reduce emissions.
Our evaluation of policy options are covered responsibility for our Health, Safety, Environment and in the Sustainability Report and Summary Review of this report.
Community HSEC processes and performance.
The results of our participation in the Australian Governments Our Code of Business Conduct applies to every member of Energy Efficiency Opportunities Act EEO program will be our workforce and provides a framework for decision-making.
It is based on the values contained in our Charter and highlights We define a significant environmental incident as one with that we care as much about how results are obtained as we do about delivering good results.
a severity rating of four or above based on our internal severity rating scale tiered from one to five by increasing severity.
Our HSEC Standards are part of a wider suite of Group Level One significant incident occurred during FY2010 at our Pinto Documents GLD.
They provide mandatory performance Valley Operations US involving a tailings release.
The majority requirements and performance controls which are the basis of the eroded tailings and cover material were recovered.
for developing and applying management systems at all sites Metal concentrations in surface water and sediments appear operated by BHP Billiton.
to be well below levels that could present a hazard.
While there were a number of incidents that had the potential to be significant, controls and mitigation actions prevented these incidents escalating in severity.
