6 Remuneration Report continued 6.4 Executive remuneration This section provides full details of service contract terms, total remuneration and equity holdings for members of the GMC.
1 Senior management in FY2010 Australian Accounting Standards and International Financial Reporting Standards require BHP Billiton to make certain disclosures for Key Management Personnel KMP.
KMP is defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly.
For the purposes of this Remuneration Report, it has been determined that the KMP are the Directors and the members of the GMC who served during FY2010.
In addition, the Australian Corporations Act 2001 requires BHP Billiton to make certain disclosures in respect of the top five highest-paid executives below Board level.
In FY2010, the five highest paid executives below Board level were all members of the GMC and are, therefore, already included as KMP.
Details of the members of the GMC during FY2010 are set out below.
Each individual was a member of the GMC for the whole of FY2010.
Dates of appointment of all GMC members appear in section 4.2 of this Annual Report, and the dates of their current service contracts appear below.
Name Title Date of contract Marius Kloppers Chief Executive Officer CEO and Executive Director 12 February 2008 Alberto Calderon Group Executive and Chief Commercial Officer 16 January 2008 Andrew Mackenzie Group Executive and Chief Executive Non-Ferrous Materials 14 November 2007 Marcus Randolph Group Executive and Chief Executive Ferrous and Coal 13 December 2005 Alex Vanselow Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer 14 June 2006 Karen Wood Group Executive and Chief People Officer 21 February 2006 J Michael Yeager Group Executive and Chief Executive Petroleum 21 March 2006 The service contracts for all members of the GMC have no fixed term.
They typically outline the components of remuneration paid to the individual, but do not prescribe how remuneration levels are to be modified from year to year.
The contracts are all capable of termination by BHP Billiton on 12 months notice.
The GMC member must give six months notice.
In addition, the Group retains the right to terminate a contract immediately by making a payment equal to 12 months base salary plus retirement benefits for that period.
