2 Information on the Company continued Information on Manganese smelters, refineries and processing plants Operation and location Ownership, operation and title Plant type product Capacity and power source Metalloys Metalloys is a division of The manganese alloy plant uses 400,000 tpa of high-carbon Samancor Manganese Pty Ltd. eight submerged arc furnaces to ferromanganese including Meyerton, South Africa Samancor Manganese Pty Ltd produce manganese alloys such hot metal, 135,000 tpa holds freehold title over the as high-carbon ferromanganese of silicomanganese and property, plant and equipment.
and silicomanganese and an 90,000 tpa of medium-carbon oxygen blown converter process ferromanganese in various producing refined mediumsize fractions.
The power source is the national utility company Eskom plus 30 MW of internal power generated from waste heat.
Tasmanian Electro Metallurgical BHP Billiton own 60% of TEMCO.
Four electric arc furnaces Nominal capacity based on Company Pty Ltd TEMCO Anglo American owns the and a sinter plant produce the 2011 budget product mix remaining 40%.
ferroalloys, including is 130,000 tpa of high-carbon Bell Bay, Tasmania, Australia high-carbon ferromanganese, ferromanganese, 125,000 tpa TEMCO holds freehold title silicomanganese and sinter.
of silicomanganese and over the property, plant 350,000 tpa of sinter.
TEMCO sources its electrical power from Aurora Energy, the state-owned power distribution and retailing company.
Power in Tasmania is principally generated from hydro stations, but supplemented with a 240 MW gas generation station.
TEMCO also self-generates 11 MW for internal use from an on-site energy recovery unit.
9 Metallurgical Coal Customer Sector Group Our Metallurgical Coal CSG is the worlds largest supplier of GEMCO expansion seaborne metallurgical coal.
Metallurgical coal, along with iron The selection study pre-feasibility study into a further ore and manganese, is a key input in the production of steel.
expansion of the GEMCO mine GEMCO 2nd expansion from 4.2 to 4.8 wet million tonnes per annum 100 per cent, or We have production assets in two major resource basins: the about 2.9 wet million tonnes per annum BHP Billiton share Bowen Basin in Central Queensland, Australia and the Illawarra is reaching its conclusion.
The project is subject to approval region of New South Wales, Australia.
and is expected to advance into execution at the end Bowen Basin of quarter 2 in FY2011.
The total investment amount In comparison with other coal producing regions, the Bowen is approximately US$130 million BHP Billiton share.
Basin is extremely well positioned to supply the seaborne market Hotazel Manganese Mines because of: gf [ Z[ dhT gl `XgT heZ VT VbT f j[ V[ TeX `beX XYY V Xag The central block development project at Wessels mine is expected to be completed in FY2013.
The project will in blast furnace use: enable Wessels mine to increase production from 1 million g[X eX Tg iX l bj Vbfg bY cebWhVg ba UXVThfX bY gf XkgXaf iX tonnes per annum to 1.5 million tonnes per annum of near-surface deposits: and capacity 100 per cent, or about 0.7 million tonnes per annum gf ZXbZeTc[ VT cebk ` gl gb 4f Ta Vhfgb`Xef!
The forecast capital expenditure to We also have access to key infrastructure, including a modern, completion of the project is an estimated US$26 million integrated electric rail network and our own coal loading BHP Billiton share.
terminal at Hay Point, Mackay.
This infrastructure enables us to maximise throughput and blending of products from multiple Metalloys mines to optimise the value of our production and satisfy The definition study feasibility study for the High Carbon Ferro customer requirements.
Manganese furnace M14 at the Metalloys smelter in Meyerton, South Africa is reaching its conclusion.
This furnace would add Our Bowen Basin mines are owned through a series of joint an additional 130,000 tonnes per annum capacity 100 per cent, ventures.
We share 5050 ownership with Mitsubishi or about 78,000 tonnes per annum BHP Billiton share to the Development Pty Ltd in BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance BMA, smelter for capital at a cost of US$54 million BHP Billiton share.
which operates the Goonyella Riverside, Broadmeadow, Peak Downs, Saraji, Norwich Park, Blackwater and Gregory Crinum Samancor Gabon Manganese project mines, together with the Hay Point terminal.
The two BHP Mitsui Coal BMC operations South Walker Creek and Poitrel mines The selection study pre-feasibility study for the establishment of a manganese mine in Gabon was completed in July 2010. are owned by BHP Billiton 80 per cent and Mitsui and Co 20 per cent.
The reserve lives of the Bowen Basin mines at A small entry mine of approximately 300,000 tonnes per annum 100 per cent, or about 180,000 tonnes per annum BHP Billiton target production rates range from six years to 65 years.
share was selected as the preferred option.
The small entry mine requires growth capital investment of US$43 million BHP Billiton share to establish the asset producing approximately 300,000 tonnes per annum of manganese ore by FY2012.
44 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Illawarra 2.2.
9 Metallurgical Coal Customer Sector Group continued Our export customers are steel producers around the world.
We own and operate three underground coal mines in the Illawarra region of New South Wales, which supply metallurgical In FY2010 most of our contracts were long-term or annual volume contracts with prices negotiated annually, however coal to the nearby BlueScope Port Kembla steelworks, and other domestic and export markets.
Total production in FY2010 was we are now moving predominantly to short-term pricing.
approximately 6.5 million tonnes and the reserve lives of the Total attributable production in FY2010 was approximately Illawarra mines at target production rates range from four years 30.8 million tonnes, compared with 30.1 million tonnes in to 19 years.
Production in FY2010 was higher due to improved operational and supply chain performance, supported Production figures for both the Bowen Basin and Illawarra by strong demand.
include some energy coal less than six per cent and 13 per cent, respectively.
Information on Metallurgical Coal mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
The tables should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
2 and reserves tables see section 2.14.2.
Name, location, mineralisation Ownership, operation style, type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source We own 50% of the CQCA joint Goonyella Mine, which All coal is beneficiated at on-site Central Queensland Coal Associates CQCA joint venture venture.
Mitsubishi Development commenced in 1971, merged processing facilities, which have Pty Ltd owns the other 50%.
with the adjoining Riverside a combined capacity in excess Bowen Basin, mine in 1989 and is operated of 53.5 mtpa.
Queensland, Australia BMA operates the mines.
as the Goonyella Riverside Mine.
Power is sourced from the State Produces a range of products Mining leases, including those Reserves at the Riverside mine of Queenslands electricity grid.
from premium-quality, low associated with undeveloped were depleted in 2005. volatile, high vitrinite, hard tenements, have expiry dates Peak Downs commenced coking coal to medium volatile between 2010 and 2037 and production in 1972.
Saraji mine hard coking coal, to weak coking are renewable for such further commenced production in 1974. coal, and some medium ash periods as the Queensland Norwich Park commenced thermal coal as a by-product.
Seams currently mined are Renewal applications for mining from the Permian Moranbah leases expiring in CY2010 have Blackwater Mine commenced and Rangal Coal Measures which been lodged.
South are comprised of layered fine to Blackwater and Blackwater mines medium grained siltstones and were integrated from late 2000. sandstones interbedded with coal.
Broadmeadow, an underground Goonyella Riverside, Peak Downs, mine developed on the Goonyella Saraji, Norwich Park and mining lease, commenced Blackwater are open-cut mines.
Broadmeadow is a longwall underground mine.
The mines are accessible by public road.
All coal is transported on government-owned railways to the port of Hay Point near Mackay incorporating CQCAs Hay Point Coal Terminal and the Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal and the port of Gladstone.
Gregory joint venture We own 50% of the Gregory joint The Gregory Mine became All coal is beneficiated at an venture.
Mitsubishi Development operational in 1979. on-site processing facility, with Bowen Basin, Pty Ltd owns the other 50%.
a capacity in excess of 5 mtpa.
Queensland, Australia Crinum Mine commenced BMA operates the mines.
Power is sourced from the State Produces a high volatile, low ash of Queenslands electricity grid.
hard coking coal, and a medium Mining leases, including those ash thermal coal.
Mining is limited associated with undeveloped to the Lilyvale Seam, part of the tenements, have expiry dates Permian German Creek Coal between 2014 and 2027 and are renewable for such further periods Measures, which are composed of layered fine to medium grained as the Queensland Government legislation allows.
sandstones and siltstones interbedded with coal.
Gregory is an open-cut mine.
Crinum is a longwall underground mine.
