4 Sustainability Committee Report The Sustainability Committee met seven times during the year.
Sustainable development governance Information on meeting attendance by Committee members is Our approach to HSEC and sustainable development included in the table in section 5.4.
1. governance is characterised by: the Sustainability Committee overseeing the HSEC matters Sustainability Committee members during the year across the Group: business line management having primary responsibility Name Status and accountability for HSEC performance: John Schubert Chairman Member for whole period the HSEC function providing advice and guidance directly, as well as through a series of networks across the business: Paul Anderson Member to 31 January 2010 seeking input and insight from external experts such E Gail fide Planque Member to 31 January 2010 as our Forum for Corporate Responsibility: Keith Rumble Member for whole period clear links between remuneration and HSEC performance.
Malcolm Broomhead Member from 31 March 2010 Activities undertaken during the year During the year, the Sustainability Committee considered Role and focus reports on environmental strategic issues, HSEC audits and The role of the Sustainability Committee is to assist the trends, review of health and hygiene standards, learnings Board in its oversight of: from fatal accidents and other incidents, and the potential the effectiveness of the Groups strategies, policies and impact of climate change regulation on the Groups portfolios systems associated with health, safety, environment and and actions being taken to manage the implications of community HSEC matters: this regulation.
It also reviewed the Groups performance our compliance with applicable legal and regulatory against the HSEC public targets and the Key Performance requirements associated with HSEC matters: Indicators for the HSEC and Sustainable Development functions.
The Committee also reviewed the performance our performance in relation to HSEC matters: of the Head, Group HSEC and Sustainable Development.
the performance and leadership of the HSEC and the The Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board Sustainable Development functions: the approval of the annual Sustainability Report for HSEC risks: publication.
The Sustainability Report identifies our targets our Annual Sustainability Report: for HSEC matters and its performance against those targets.
communication to shareholders regarding the work of the Committee on behalf of the Board.
A copy of the Sustainability Report and further information can be found at www.
The Committee also assessed its performance in accordance with its Terms of Reference.
As a result of that assessment, the Committee is satisfied it has met its Terms of Reference.
