96 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31 December 2010 1.
Summary of significant accounting All inter-company balances, profits and combinations achieved in stages.
These changes policies and critical accounting transactions are eliminated.
will impact the amount of goodwill recognised, judgements and estimates the reported results in the period that an Details of material subsidiaries included within Amlin plc the Company is a public limited acquisition occurs and future reported results.
the consolidated financial statements can be company registered in England and Wales.
IAS 27 amended requires that a change in the The address of the registered office is St ownership interest of a subsidiary without loss Helens, 1 Undershaft, London EC3A 8ND.
As part of our process to improve the presentation of control is accounted for as a transaction with of the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements, The basis of preparation, basis of consolidation owners in their capacity as owners.
Therefore, certain changes have been made to the and significant accounting policies adopted in such transactions will no longer give rise to presentation of Financial assets and Financial the preparation of Amlin plc and subsidiaries goodwill, nor will it give rise to a gain or loss.
liabilities, Insurance liabilities and reinsurance the Group consolidated financial statements Furthermore, the amended standard changes assets, Other payables, and Loans and are set out below.
the accounting for losses incurred by the receivables in order to better reflect the nature subsidiary as well as the loss of control of a Basis of preparation of underlying transactions.
The changes by IFRS 3 revised and These consolidated financial statements are have also been made to the presentation of the IAS 27 amended will affect future acquisitions or prepared in accordance with International effects of tax in the Consolidated Statement of loss of control of subsidiaries and transactions Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Comprehensive Income and in the Consolidated with non-controlling interests.
The changes were adopted for use in the European Union EU.
Statement of Changes in Equity.
These changes applied prospectively and had no material impact.
The consolidated financial statements comply in presentation have no effect on the previously with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation and reported net income, shareholders equity or IAS 39 amended, Financial instruments: Companies Act 2006. net assets.
Comparative information has been recognition and measurement eligible amended to reflect this change.
hedged items The consolidated financial statements have The amendment was issued in July 2008.
It been prepared on the historical cost basis Adoption of new and revised standards provides guidance on certain hedged items.
On a Standards, amendments to published except for cash and cash equivalents, financial the designation of a one-sided risk in a hedged standards and interpretations effective assets and liabilities, share options, and pension item, IAS 39 concludes that a purchased option on or after 1 January 2010 assets which are measured at their fair value.
designated in its entirety as the hedging The accounting policies adopted are consistent Except where otherwise stated, all figures instrument of a one-sided risk will not be with those of the previous financial year, except included in the consolidated financial statements perfectly effective.
Additionally, the designation for the following new and amended IFRS are presented in millions of British Pounds of inflation as a hedged risk or portion is not and IFRIC interpretations effective as of Sterling sterling shown as m rounded to permitted unless in particular situations.
There is no material impact on the Group IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations: or Companys financial statements.
The accounting policies adopted in preparing IAS 27 amended, Consolidated and these financial statements are consistent with IFRS 2 amended, Group cash-settled shareseparate financial statements: those followed in the preparation of the Groups based payment transactions annual financial statements for the year ended The IASB issued an amendment to IFRS 2 that Amendment to IAS 39, Financial 31 December 2009, unless otherwise stated.
clarified the scope and the accounting for group instruments: recognition and measurement cash-settled share-based payment transactions.
eligible hedged items: In accordance with IFRS 4, the Group has The Group adopted this amendment as of applied existing accounting practices for insurance Amendment to IFRS 2, Group cash-settled 1 January 2010.
There is no material impact on contracts, modified as appropriate, to comply with share-based payment transactions: the Group or Companys financial statements.
the IFRS framework and applicable standards.
IFRIC 18, Transfers of assets from IFRIC 17, Distribution of non-cash assets Basis of consolidation customers: to owners The financial statements consolidate the accounts The interpretation provides guidance on IFRIC 17, Distribution of non-cash assets of the Company and subsidiary undertakings, accounting for arrangements whereby an entity to owners: and including the Groups underwriting through distributes non-cash assets to shareholders participation on Lloyds syndicates.
Subsidiaries Annual improvements to IFRSs 2008-2009. either as a distribution of reserves or as are those entities in which the Group, directly or dividends.
IFRS 5 Non-current assets held Adoption of these revised standards and indirectly, has the power to govern the operating for sale and discontinued operations has interpretations did not have any material and financial policies in order to gain economic also been amended to require that assets are effect on the financial performance or position benefits and include the Companys employee classified as held for distribution only when they of the Group.
The financial statements of all are available for distribution in their present subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting The effects of these changes are as follows: condition and the distribution is highly year as the Parent Company.
This interpretation does not IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations and adjustments are made to convert subsidiary have a material impact on the Group or IAS 27 amended, Consolidated and separate accounts prepared under different accounting Companys financial statements.
financial statements standards into IFRS so as to remove the effects IFRS 3 revised introduces significant changes of any different accounting policies that may IFRIC 18, Transfers of assets from customers in the accounting for business combinations exist.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date This interpretation was issued in January 2009. occurring after 1 January 2010.
Changes affect that control is transferred to the Group and cease It clarifies how to account for transfers of items the valuation of non-controlling interests, the to be consolidated from the date that control is of property, plant and equipment by entities accounting for transaction costs, the initial transferred out.
that receive such transfers from their recognition and subsequent measurement of customers.
The interpretation also applies contingent consideration and business to agreements in which an entity receives 96 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 97 cash from a customer when that amount of This amendment will have no impact on the The equity instruments issued are measured at cash must be used only to construct or acquire Group after initial application.
In case this cannot be reliably an item of property, plant and equipment and measured, they are measured at the fair value IFRS 9, Financial instruments: Classification the entity must then use that item to provide of the liability extinguished.
Any gain or loss is and measurement the customer with ongoing access to supply recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The IFRS 9 as issued reflects the first phase of the of goods and or services.
The Group is not adoption of this interpretation will have no Boards work on the replacement of IAS 39 and impacted by the adoption of IFRIC 18. effect on the financial statements of the Group.
applies to the classification and measurement Annual improvements to IFRSs 2008-2009 of financial assets as defined in IAS 39.
The Annual improvements to IFRSs 2009-2010 In April 2008 and 2009, the IASB issued its standard is effective for annual periods The IASB issued Improvements to IFRSs, an annual amendments to International Financial beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
In omnibus of amendments to its IFRS standards.
Reporting Standards IFRSs and the related subsequent phases, the Board will address The amendments have not been adopted as Bases for Conclusions and guidance made.
The hedge accounting and derecognition.
The they become effective for annual periods on IASB uses the annual improvements process to completion of this project is expected in early or after either 1 July 2010 or 1 January 2011. make necessary, but non-urgent, amendments to 2011.
The adoption of IFRS 9 will have an effect The Group however, expects no significant IFRSs that will not be included as part of a major on the classification and measurement of the impact from the adoption of the amendments project.
The amendments primarily remove Groups financial assets.
However, the Group on its financial position or performance.
The Group determined that the effect shall be quantified in has adopted the amendments to standards as conjunction with the other phases when issued IFRS 7 amended, Financial instruments: they come into effect for the reporting period to present a comprehensive picture.
Disclosures Transfers of financial assets beginning on 1 January 2010.
However, these The amendment to IFRS 7 is effective for IFRS 9 amendments to incorporate financial amendments have no material impact on the annual periods beginning on or after 1 July liabilities Group or Companys financial statements.
2011 and comparative disclosures are not The amendments to IFRS 9 issued in October required for early adoption.
The amendment b Standards, amendments to published standards 2010 incorporate the classification and will introduce more extensive quantitative and and interpretations early adopted by the Group measurement of financial liabilities and are qualitative disclosures about the transfer of In 2010, the Group did not early adopt any mandatory for annual periods beginning on or financial assets to assist users in understanding new, revised or amended standards.
The amendments only the implications of transfers of financial assets affect the measurement of financial liabilities c Standards, amendments to published standards and the potential risks that may remain with the designated at fair value through profit or loss and interpretations that are not yet effective and transferor.
The amendment is deemed to have using the Fair Value Option FVO.
All other have not been early adopted by the Group no material impact on the Group or Companys requirements in IAS 39 in respect of liabilities Standards issued but not yet effective up to financial statements.
are carried forward into IFRS 9. the date of issuance of the Groups financial Critical accounting judgements and key sources For FVO liabilities, the amount of change in statements are listed below.
The Group intends of estimation uncertainty to adopt these standards when they become the fair value of a liability that is attributable The preparation of financial statements requires to changes in credit risk must be presented effective.
the use of estimates and assumptions that in other comprehensive income OCI.
The IAS 24 amended, Related party disclosures affect the reported amounts of assets and remainder of the change in fair value is The amended standard is effective for annual liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent presented in profit or loss, unless presentation periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011. assets and liabilities.
Although these estimates of the fair value change in respect of the It clarified the definition of a related party to are based on managements best knowledge of liabilitys credit risk in OCI would create or simplify the identification of such relationships current events and actions, actual results may enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or and to eliminate inconsistencies in its application.
ultimately differ from those estimates.
The amendments are deemed to have no The revised standard introduced a partial impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Insurance contract liabilities exemption of disclosure requirements for The most significant estimate made in the IFRIC 14 amended, Prepayments of a minimum government-related entities.
The Group does financial statements relates to unpaid insurance funding requirement not expect any impact on its financial position claim reserves and related loss adjustment The amendment to IFRIC 14 is effective for annual or performance.
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011 IAS 32 amended, Financial instruments: with retrospective application.
The amendment The estimated provision for the total level of Presentation classification of rights issues provides guidance on assessing the recoverable claims incurred changes as more information The amendment to IAS 32 is effective for annual amount of a net pension asset.
The amendment becomes known about the actual losses for periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010 permits an entity to treat the prepayment of a which the initial provisions were set up.
The and amended the definition of a financial minimum funding requirement as an asset.
The change in claims costs for prior period insurance liability in order to classify rights issues amendment is deemed to have no impact on claims represents the claims development of and certain options or warrants as equity the financial statements of the Group.
earlier reported years incurred in the current instruments in cases where such rights are accounting period.
In 2010, there has been IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with given pro rata to all of the existing owners of a net positive development of 156.5 million equity instruments the same class of an entitys non-derivative 2009: 174.1 million for the Group, reflecting IFRIC 19 is effective for annual periods beginning equity instruments, or to acquire a fixed favourable experience in the 2009 and prior on or after 1 July 2010.
The interpretation number of the entitys own equity instruments reported years.
Note 3 provides further details clarifies that equity instruments issued to a for a fixed amount in any currency.
of the method the Group applies in estimating creditor to extinguish a financial liability qualify insurance contract liabilities.
98 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 1.
Summary of significant accounting Deferred tax assets are recognised for all to the regulatory environment and the fact that policies and critical accounting unused tax losses to the extent that it is the Group trades through the Lloyds market, judgements and estimates continued probable that taxable profit will be available all Group companies incorporated in the United Financial investments against which the losses can be utilised.
Kingdom have adopted sterling as their The methods and assumptions used by the Significant management judgement is required functional currency, although Amlin Overseas Group and Company in estimating the fair value to determine the amount of deferred tax assets Holdings Limiteds Netherlands branch has of financial assets are described in note 3. that can be recognised, based upon the likely adopted the euro as its functional currency.
The timing and the level of future taxable profits Group company incorporated in Bermuda and Intangible assets together with future tax planning strategies.
Amlin AGs Bermudian branch Amlin Bermuda Intangible assets are recognised on the have adopted the US dollar as their functional acquisition of a subsidiary, on the purchase of The carrying value at the reporting date of currency.
Amlin Singapore Pte Limited has specific rights to renew a particular underwriting the deferred tax asset is 14.7 million 2009: adopted the Singaporean dollar as its functional portfolio and on computer software.
29.1 million, and of the deferred tax liability currency.
The Group companies incorporated is 87.8 million 2009: 125.0 million.
The value of such intangibles arising from the in France and the Netherlands and Amlin acquisition of a subsidiary or specific renewal Staff incentive plans AGs Swiss operation Amlin Re Europe have rights is largely based on the expected cash The Group recognises a liability and expense for adopted the euro as their functional currency.
flows of the business acquired and contractual staff incentive plans based on a formula that Transactions denominated in foreign currencies rights on that business.
Certain key assumptions takes into consideration the underwriting profit are translated using the exchange rates prevailing are used to assess the value of the intangible after certain adjustments.
Underwriting profit at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets such as past underwriting performance and is estimated based on current expectation of and liabilities are translated at the rates of past renewal values of underwriting business.
premiums and claims and will change as more exchange at the balance sheet date.
NonThese are the subject of specific uncertainty information is known or future events occur.
monetary assets and liabilities are translated and a reduction in underwriting profitability Where estimates change, related staff incentive at the rate prevailing in the period in which the or renewal patterns of business acquired may plan liabilities may also change.
asset or liability first arose.
Exchange differences result in the value of the intangible being Retirement benefit obligations are recognised within other operating expenses.
impaired and written off in the current The Group participates in the Lloyds accounting period.
Note 22 provides The results and financial position of those Group Superannuation Fund defined benefit scheme details of any current impairments.
entities whose functional currency is not sterling and also operates defined benefit schemes are translated into sterling as follows: Goodwill impairment in the Netherlands and Belgium.
The Group determines whether goodwill is Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet The amounts included in these financial impaired at least on an annual basis.
This presented are translated at the closing statements are sensitive to changes in the requires an estimation of the recoverable exchange rate at the date of the balance assumptions used to derive the value of the amount of the cash-generating unit to which sheet: scheme assets and liabilities.
Details of the key Income and expenses for each income A gain of 5.9 million 2009: 23.7 million assumptions used in the estimation of the statement are translated at average loss has been recognised in the Statement recoverable amounts are contained in note 22. exchange rates during the period as of Comprehensive Income and a debit of The Group has allocated the goodwill to three an approximation to the exchange rates 1.9 million 2009: 2.3 million has been single cash generating units equivalent to three at the dates of each transaction : and recognised in the Income Statement.
operating segments of the Group.
Note 22 Note 28 provides further details on the On consolidation all resulting exchange provides further details.
The carrying value at Groups retirement benefit obligations.
differences are recognised as a component the reporting date of goodwill is 61.8 million of equity.
Foreign currency translation Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on Taxation The Group and Company present their accounts the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated Uncertainties exist with respect to the in sterling since it is subject to regulation in the as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity interpretation of complex tax regulations United Kingdom and the net assets, liabilities and translated at the closing rate.
and the amount and timing of future taxable and income of the Group and Company are income.
The wide range of international currently weighted towards sterling.
US dollar Where contracts to sell currency have been business relationships and the long-term nature and euro revenues are significant but the entered into prior to the year end, the contracted and complexity of existing contractual agreements, sterling revenue stream is also currently rates have been used.
Differences arising on the could necessitate future adjustments to tax material.
All Group entities are incorporated translation of foreign currency amounts on such income and expense already recorded.
The in the United Kingdom with the exception of items are included in other operating expenses.
Group establishes provisions, based on Amlin Bermuda Holdings Ltd incorporated Product classification reasonable estimates, for possible consequences in Bermuda, Amlin AG Switzerland, Amlin Insurance contracts are defined as those of audits by the tax authorities of the respective France Holdings SAS formerly known as Amlin containing significant insurance risk if, and only countries in which it operates.
The amount of France SAS, Amlin France SAS formerly if, an insured event could cause an insurer to such provisions is based on various factors, known as Anglo French Underwriters SAS both make significant additional payments in any such as experience of previous tax audits and France, Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. the scenario, excluding scenarios that lack commercial differing interpretations of tax regulations by the Netherlands and Amlin Singapore Pte Limited substance, at the inception of the contract.
taxable entity and the responsible tax authority.
All Group entities conduct business Such differences of interpretation may arise The significance of insurance risk is dependent in a range of economic environments, although on a wide variety of issues depending on the these are primarily the United Kingdom, United on both the probability of an insured event conditions prevailing in the respective Group and the magnitude of its potential effect.
Any States of America and Continental Europe.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 99 contracts not considered to be insurance Unpaid claims reserves are made for known or Salvage and subrogation reimbursements Some insurance contracts permit the Group contracts under IFRS are classified as anticipated liabilities under insurance contracts investment contracts.
which have not been settled up to the balance to sell usually damaged property acquired in settling a claim for example, salvage.
Included within the provision is an Based on the current assessment, all of the allowance for the future costs of settling those Group may also have the right to pursue third products sold by the Groups insurance entities parties for payment of some or all costs for claims.
This is estimated based on past experience are insurance contracts within the scope and current expectations of future cost levels.
Unpaid claims reserves are estimated on an Estimates of salvage recoveries are included Insurance contracts premium as an allowance in the measurement of the undiscounted basis.
Unpaid claims reserves Gross written premium comprises premium acquired through a business combination are insurance liability for claims, and salvage on insurance contracts incepting during the property is recognised in other insurance assets measured at fair value, using an applicable financial year together with adjustments to risk-free discount rate and having regard when the liability is settled.
The allowance is the premiums written in previous accounting amount that can reasonably be recovered from to the expected settlement dates of the claims.
The estimated premium income in Provisions are subject to a detailed quarterly the disposal of the property.
respect of facility contracts, for example binding review where forecast future cash flows and authorities and lineslips, is deemed to be written Subrogation reimbursements are also considered existing amounts provided are reviewed and in full at the inception of the contract.
Premium as an allowance in the measurement of the reassessed.
Any changes to the amounts held is disclosed before the deduction of brokerage insurance liability for claims and are recognised are adjusted through the income statement.
and taxes or duties levied on them.
in other assets when the liability is settled.
The Provisions are established above an actuarial allowance is the assessment of the amount that The proportion of gross written premium, gross best estimate, reflecting a risk premium relating can be recovered from the action against the of commission payable, attributable to periods to the uncertainty of the actual level of claims liable third party.
after the balance sheet date is deferred as a incurred.
There is therefore a reasonable chance provision for unearned premium.
The change in Net investment income of release of reserves from one underwriting year Dividends and any related tax credits are this provision is taken to the income statement to the next.
in order that revenue is recognised over the recognised as income on the date that the The unpaid claims reserves also include, where related listed investments are marked experiod of the risk.
necessary, a reserve for unexpired risks where, dividend.
Other investment income, interest Premium is earned over the policy contract at the balance sheet date, the estimated costs receivable, expenses and interest payable period.
The earned element is calculated of future claims and related deferred acquisition are recognised on an accruals basis.
separately for each contract on a 365ths basis costs are expected to exceed the unearned Segment reporting where the premium is apportioned over the premium provision.
Operating segments are reported in a manner period of risk.
For premium written under Reinsurance contracts held consistent with the internal reporting provided facilities the earned element is calculated based Contracts entered into by the Group to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief on the estimated inception date and coverage with reinsurers under which the Group is operating decision-maker, which is responsible period of the underlying contracts.
compensated for losses on contracts issued for allocating resources and assessing the Acquisition costs by the Group and that meet the classification performance of the operating segments, Acquisition costs comprise brokerage incurred requirements for insurance contracts are has been identified as the Board of Directors on insurance contracts written during the classified as reinsurance contracts held.
They are incurred on the same Insurance contracts entered into by the Group basis as the earned proportions of the premium Business combinations under which the contract holder is another i.
Business combinations before 1 January 2010 they relate to.
Deferred acquisition costs are insurer inwards reinsurance are included The acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted amortised over the period in which the related within insurance contracts.
for using the purchase method.
The cost of revenues are earned.
Deferred acquisition costs The benefits to which the Group is entitled under acquisition is measured as the fair value of assets are reviewed at the end of each reporting its reinsurance contracts held are recognised given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity period and are written off where they are as reinsurance assets.
These assets consist instruments issued by the Group at the date of no longer considered to be recoverable.
of short-term balances due from reinsurers, exchange, plus any costs directly attributable to Reinsurance premium ceded as well as longer term receivables that are the business combination.
Identifiable assets Reinsurance premium ceded comprises the dependent on the expected claims and benefits acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities cost of reinsurance arrangements placed and arising under the related reinsured insurance assumed, meeting the conditions for recognition are accounted for in the same accounting contracts.
Amounts recoverable from or due under IFRS 3, are recognised at their fair value at period as the related insurance contracts.
The to reinsurers are measured consistently with the the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of amounts associated with the reinsured insurance provision for reinsurers share of unearned any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of premium represents that part of reinsurance contracts and in accordance with the terms acquisition over the fair value of the Groups of each reinsurance contract.
written premium which is estimated to be share of the identifiable net assets acquired is earned in following financial years.
Where there is objective evidence that a recorded as goodwill.
reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group Insurance contracts liabilities ii.
Business combination after 1 January 2010 Claims paid are defined as those claims reduces the carrying amount of the reinsurance The Group policy is to apply IFRS 3 revised asset to its recoverable amount and recognises transactions settled up to the balance sheet to all acquisitions which take place on or after date including internal and external claims that impairment loss in the income statement.
1 January 2010. Business combinations are settlement expenses allocated to those accounted for using the acquisition method.
100 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 1.
Summary of significant accounting control and previously considered unlikely.
method to write down the cost of such assets to policies and critical accounting When the Group ceases to hold a 50% interest their residual values over their estimated useful judgements and estimates continued in the assets and liabilities, it shall be re-designated lives as follows: The cost of acquisition is measured as the fair as fair value through profit and loss.
Leasehold land Over period value of assets given, liabilities incurred or Intangible assets and buildings of lease assumed, and equity instruments issued by the i.
Syndicate capacity Freehold buildings 5% per annum Group at the date of exchange.
Under IFRS 3 The cost of Lloyds syndicate participations that Motor vehicles 33% per annum revised, with the exception of the costs of have been purchased in the Lloyds capacity registering and issuing debt and securities Computer equipment 33% per annum auctions is capitalised at cost.
Syndicate capacity that are recognised in accordance with IAS 32 Furniture, fixtures and is considered to have an indefinite life as it will and IAS 39 i. e. as a reduction in proceeds, leasehold improvements 20% per annum provide benefits over an indefinite future period all other acquisition-related costs are to be and is therefore not subject to an annual expensed as incurred.
The carrying values of property and equipment amortisation charge.
The continuing value are reviewed for impairment when events or of the capacity is reviewed for impairment When the Group acquires a business, it changes in circumstance indicate that the annually by reference to the expected future assesses the financial assets and liabilities carrying value may be impaired.
If any such profit streams to be earned from Syndicate assumed for appropriate classification and condition exists, the recoverable amount of 2001, with any impairment in value being designation in accordance with the contractual the asset is estimated in order to determine charged to the income statement.
terms, economic circumstances and pertinent the extent of impairment and the difference conditions at the acquisition date.
Goodwill is charged to the income statement.
assets acquired and liabilities and contingent Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to liabilities assumed, meeting the conditions for 1 January 1999 was written off to reserves.
Gains and losses on disposal of property and recognition under IFRS 3, are recognised at equipment are determined by reference to their Goodwill recognised between 1 January 1999 their fair value at the acquisition date, and the date of transition to IFRS 1 January 2004 carrying amount and are taken to the income irrespective of the extent of any minority statement.
Repairs and renewals are charged to was capitalised and amortised on a straight line interest.
The excess of the fair value of basis over its estimated useful life.
Following the income statement when the expenditure is consideration transferred over the fair value incurred.
The freehold land is not depreciated.
the transition to IFRS this goodwill is stated at of the Groups share of the identifiable net net book value at 1 January 2004.
Goodwill that Financial assets assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
was recognised subsequent to 1 January 2004 The Group classifies its financial assets at fair is capitalised.
Goodwill is tested for impairment For each business combination, the Group value through profit and loss FV or available for annually, or when events or changes in measures any non-controlling interests in the sale.
The classification depends on the purpose circumstance indicate that it might be impaired, acquiree at the non-controlling interests for which the financial assets were acquired.
by comparing the net present value of the proportionate share of the acquirees Management determines the classification future earnings stream from the acquired identifiable net assets.
of its financial assets at initial recognition.
subsidiary, against the carrying value of the Interests in associate entities Other than investments in certain unlisted goodwill and the carrying value of the related Investments in associates are accounted for insurance intermediaries see below, the Group net assets.
classifies its financial investments as FV.
Other intangible assets classification requires all fair value changes to Associates are all entities over which the Group Other intangible assets comprise costs directly be recognised immediately within the investment has significant influence but no control, generally attributable to securing the intangible rights return line in the income statement.
Within the accompanying a shareholding of between 20% to broker, customer relationships and costs FV category, fixed maturity and equity securities and 50% of the voting rights.
The Groups share directly attributable to internally-developed are classified as trading as the Group buys with of its associates post-acquisition profits and software.
Costs are recognised as intangible the intention to resell.
All other securities are losses after tax is recognised in the income assets where they can be identified separately classified as other than trading within the statement each period, and its share of the and measured reliably and it is probable that FV category.
movement in associates net assets is reflected they will be recovered by directly related future in the investments carrying values in the The Group has investments in certain unlisted profits.
Other intangible assets are reviewed for balance sheet.
insurance intermediaries which are treated as impairment losses annually or whenever events available-for-sale and are measured at fair value.
or changes in circumstances indicate that Interests in jointly owned entities Changes in fair value of investments are included the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Investments in jointly owned entities are in Other Comprehensive Income in the period in Other intangible assets are carried at cost accounted for using the equity method.
They are tested for impairment less accumulated amortisation and impairment Operations held for sale annually, or when events or changes in losses.
Amortisation is calculated on a straightAssets and liabilities held for disposal as part circumstances indicate that impairment might line basis based on the estimated useful of operations which are held for sale are shown have occurred.
When securities classified as economic life of the assets, which is estimated separately in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
available for sale are sold or impaired, the to be between five and fifteen years.
The relevant assets are recorded at the lower accumulated fair value adjustments recognised Property and equipment of their carrying amount and their fair value, in equity are included in the income statement Property and equipment are stated at historical less the estimated selling costs.
Operations held as gains and losses from investment securities.
cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for sale are being actively marketed to external for impairment where appropriate.
Cost includes Purchases and sales of investments are recognised investors.
After one year of where in excess of the original purchase price of the asset and on the trade date, which is the date the Group 50% of the operation is held by the Group, the the costs attributable to bringing the asset commits to purchase or sell the assets.
These assets and liabilities are consolidated unless the to its working condition for its intended use.
are initially recognised at fair value, and are delay in attracting sufficient external investment Depreciation is calculated on the straight line subsequently re-measured at fair value based is due to circumstances beyond the Groups Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 101 on quoted bid prices.
Transaction costs are commissions charged for the utilisation of benefit asset due to an asset ceiling.
The recognised directly in the income statement letters of credit.
These costs are charged to the present value of the defined benefit obligation is when incurred.
Changes in the fair value income statement as finance costs, as incurred.
determined by discounting the estimated future of investments are included in the income In addition, fees paid for the arrangement of cash outflows using interest rates of high quality statement in the period in which they arise.
debt and letter of credit facilities are charged corporate bonds, and that have terms to maturity The uncertainty around bond valuation is to finance costs over the life of the facility.
approximating to the terms of the related pension discussed further in note 3. liability.
In respect of ACIs defined benefit scheme Cash and cash equivalents in the Netherlands, the fair value of the plan assets Derivative financial instruments Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the reflects the benefits that accrue to ACI under the Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value balance sheet at fair value.
For the purposes insurance policy taken out to meet its obligations.
on the date on which a derivative contract is of the cash flow statement, cash and cash entered into.
Fair values for over the counter equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits Pension contributions to defined contribution derivatives are supplied by the custodian and held on call with banks and other short-term, plans are charged to the income statement checked to the relevant counterparty and highly liquid investments which are believed when due.
Changes in the fair value of to be subject to insignificant risk of change ii.
Equity compensation plans equity-settled derivative instruments are recognised in fair value.
The Company operates a number of executive immediately in the income statement unless Treasury shares and employee share schemes.
Options issued the derivative is designated as a hedging Treasury shares are deducted from equity.
No after 7 November 2002 are accounted for using instrument.
As defined by IAS 39 Financial gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, sale, the fair value method where the cost for providing Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, issue or cancellation of the treasury shares.
Any equity compensation is based on the fair value the Group designates certain foreign currency consideration paid or received is recognised of the share option or award at the date of the derivatives as hedges of net investments in directly in equity.
The fair value is calculated using an foreign operations.
The Group documents at option pricing model and the corresponding Leases the inception of each hedging transaction the expense is recognised in the income statement Leases are classified as finance leases whenever relationship between hedging instruments and over the vesting period.
The accrual for this the terms of the lease transfer substantially all hedged items, as well as its risk management charge is recognised in equity shareholders the risks and rewards to the Group.
All other objectives and strategy for undertaking various funds.
When the options are exercised, the leases are classified as operating leases.
The Group also proceeds received net of any transaction costs documents its assessment, both at hedge Rentals payable under operating leases are are credited to share capital for the par value inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether charged to income in the period in which they and the surplus to share premium.
the derivatives that are used in hedging become payable in accordance with the terms transactions are highly effective in offsetting iii.
Equity compensation plans cash-settled of the lease.
The Group operates the Amlin Capital Builder changes in fair values of hedged items.
Employee benefits Plan which is deemed a cash-settled shareAny gain or loss on the hedging instrument i.
Pension obligations based payment arrangement.
The cost of cashrelated to the effective portion is recognised in The Group participates in a number of pension settled transactions is measured initially at fair the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive schemes, including several defined benefit value at the grant date.
Further details are given Income.
The fair values of derivative instruments schemes, defined contribution schemes and in note 24.
The fair value is expensed over the used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note personal pension schemes.
period until the vesting date with recognition 17.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity of a corresponding liability.
The liability is The Lloyds Superannuation Fund scheme is a are included in the income statement when the remeasured at each reporting date up to and multi-employer defined benefit scheme.
Amlin foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
including the settlement date with changes in Corporate Insurance N. V. ACI participates in Loans and receivables fair value recognised in profit or loss.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised iv.
Other benefits The defined benefit obligation and associated cost using an effective interest rate.
Appropriate Other employee incentive schemes and longpension costs are calculated annually by allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts term service awards, including sabbatical leave, independent actuaries using the projected unit are recognised in the income statement when are recognised when they accrue to employees.
This method sees each period there is evidence that the asset is impaired.
A provision is made for the estimated liability for of service as giving rise to an additional unit These are reversed when the triggering event long-service leave as a result of services rendered of benefit entitlement and measures each unit that caused the impairment is reversed.
by employees up to the balance sheet date.
separately to build up the final liability.
The cost Borrowings of providing these benefits is charged to the Other income Borrowings are stated initially at the consideration income statement to spread the pension cost Fee income from providing information services received net of transaction costs incurred.
over the service lives of employees.
Actuarial is recognised on an earned basis.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at gains and losses arising from the recognition amortised cost using the effective interest and funding of the Groups pension obligations are method.
Any difference between amortised recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive cost and the redemption value is recognised Income during the period in which they arise.
in the income statement over the period of the The liability recognised in the balance sheet in borrowings.
Transaction costs on borrowings respect of defined benefit pension plans is the are charged through the income statement present value of the fair value of plan assets over the period of the borrowings.
less the defined benefit obligation at the Borrowing costs balance sheet date, together with adjustments Borrowing costs mainly comprise interest for unrecognised past-service costs and for payable on subordinated loans and restrictions on the recognition of a defined 102 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 1.
Summary of significant accounting Dividend distribution If a firm breaches its Pillar 1 capital it must Dividend distribution to the Companys policies and critical accounting cease trading: if Pillar 2 capital is breached judgements and estimates continued shareholders is recognised as a liability in the steps must be taken urgently to restore capital Taxation Groups and Companys financial statements in to the required level.
Due to the nature of the Income tax expense represents the sum of the period in which the dividends are approved Lloyds capital setting process, Funds at Lloyds the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
requirements are formally assessed and funded twice yearly at discrete periods and must be The tax currently payable is based on taxable Other payables met for the Syndicate to continue underwriting.
Other payables are those incurred in the normal profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement course of business and measured at amortised At 31 December 2010 the level of capital held cost.
They represent liabilities to pay for goods because it excludes items of income or expense on behalf of the Amlin corporate member was that are taxable or deductible in other years or services that have been received or supplied, more than 250 million 2009: 200 million and have been invoiced by the supplier before or that are never taxable or deductible.
The in excess of the Pillar 1 requirement and more Groups and Companys liability for current the period end, but payment has not yet than 25 million 2009: 20 million in excess been made.
tax is calculated using tax rates that have of the Pillar 2 requirement.
been enacted or substantively enacted by 2.
Capital The Group does not seek to retain any assets in the balance sheet date.
The capital structure of the Group consists excess of the Lloyds capital requirement within Deferred tax is recognised on differences of equity attributable to equity holders of the the Lloyds framework and any surplus is paid Company, comprising issued capital, reserves between the carrying amounts of assets to the corporate entities in the Group.
and liabilities in the financial statements and retained earnings as disclosed in the Amlin AG is supervised by the Swiss Financial Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the corresponding tax bases used in the Market Supervisory Authority FINMA and the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted and note 23, and subordinated debt as Bermuda Monetary Authority BMA.
For business planning for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised purposes, account is also taken of the Groups The FINMA supervision is composed of undrawn debt facilities as disclosed in note 27. for all taxable temporary differences and various qualitative assessments, governance deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent requirements and minimum solvency levels.
The Amlin corporate member, which supports that it is probable that taxable profits will be Amlin AG provides regulatory solvency Syndicate 2001, is required to hold regulatory available against which deductible temporary reporting to FINMA under the rules of Solvency capital in compliance with the rules issued by differences can be utilised.
Such assets and I and the Swiss Solvency Test SST.
Solvency I the UKs Financial Services Authority FSA.
liabilities are not recognised if the temporary is based on the Swiss statutory financial In addition, being a Lloyds operation it is also difference arises from goodwill or from the statements and required capital is calculated subject to Lloyds capital requirements.
Under initial recognition other than in a business as a fixed percentage of premiums, claims FSA rules, the corporate member must hold combination of other assets and liabilities reserves and or net amount at risk.
The SST capital in excess of the higher of two amounts.
in a transaction that affects neither the tax is based on an economic view and required The first is the Pillar 1 requirement, as profit nor the accounting profit.
capital is derived from an internal Dynamic prescribed by EU directives, calculated by Financial Analysis DFA model.
applying fixed percentages to premiums and Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on claims.
The second, Pillar 2, is an Individual The internal model as well as the 2011 SST Capital Assessment ICA calculated internally investments in subsidiaries and associates, is still subject to approval by the FINMA.
We and interests in joint ventures, except where by the firm.
The ICA is defined as the level of calculate available and required capital under capital that is required to contain the probability the Group and Company is able to control the the SST using the aforementioned model.
The reversal of the temporary difference and it is of insolvency, over a one year timeframe, to no minimum ratio for Solvency I as well as for the greater than 0.5%.
The ICA calculation basis is probable that the temporary difference will SST is set at 100% the SST minimum ratio will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
generally considered to be broadly equivalent to become legally binding in 2011.
For both ratios a BBB insurance financial strength rating.
The Amlin AG exceeds the 100% minimum ratio.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets ICA calculation considers all ultimate losses is reviewed at each balance sheet date and Under BMA regulations, Amlin AG is licensed incurred over a one year business planning reduced to the extent that it is no longer as a Class IV insurer and the minimum solvency horizon, and any prior year reserve movements.
probable that sufficient taxable profits will margin is the greater of US$100 million, 50% For the purposes of setting Lloyds capital be available to allow all or part of the asset of net premiums written in the current financial to be recovered, or to the extent that it has requirements, Lloyds currently uplifts all ICAs year, 15% of claims reserves and the Enhanced by 35% 2009: 35% to bring the capital to a been utilised.
The ECR is calculated level to support a higher financial strength on an annual basis through either the Bermuda Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates rating.
The final capital requirement is then Solvency Capital Requirement BSCR model or that are expected to apply in the period when subject to a minimum of 40% 2009: 40% an approved internal model.
In addition, as a the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
of the syndicates agreed regulatory Class IV insurer, the company is required to Deferred tax is charged or credited to profit premium capacity limit.
maintain a minimum liquidity ratio such that the or loss, except when it relates to items charged value of relevant assets is not less than 75% of or credited directly to equity, in which case The Syndicate also benefits from mutualised its relevant liabilities.
Amlin AG met this capital within the Lloyds Central Fund, for which the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
requirement at 31 December 2010. a variable annual levy, for 2010 of 0.5% 2009: Deferred tax is recognised on the profits of 0.5% of Syndicate gross premium, is payable.
For trading purposes, Amlin AG believes that overseas subsidiaries where it is reasonably it is necessary to hold at least US$1 billion The ICA is reviewed annually by Lloyds and foreseeable that distribution of the profit back of capital, which is currently in excess of the periodically by the FSA.
The FSA expect to the UK will take place and the UK dividend minimum required by the BMA and FINMA.
exemption is not expected to apply.
management to apply their rules continuously.
