42 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Operations Delivering a framework for growth During 2010 we continued to focus on operational excellence and made good progress on a range of improvement initiatives and major programmes, in particular preparations for Solvency II and the ACI Platform Replacement Programme.
Andrew Grant Group Operations Officer 2010 was another year of change and development early in 2010, prior to the design and build phase, reports and controls and to allow ACIs people for the Group which required some short term to ensure that ACIs specific business needs are met.
more time to become familiar with the new solutions as well as continued work towards systems and processes.
By the end of 2010, a number of the major longer term strategic goals.
We continued to development activities within the Programme When Amlin purchased Fortis Corporate Insurance invest in our change management capabilities in were well advanced.
Most of the software from the Dutch state, existing transition services order to position the Group for future growth, as construction had been finished and testing agreements between entities within the Fortis well as to enable us to meet the needs of Amlins was underway.
The design and build of the data Group stated that the Fortis provision of systems for Solvency II programme.
migration processes was also in progress and ACI would terminate on or before 30 June 2011. the initial migrated products were available for ACI Platform Replacement Programme We have since agreed with Fortis Insurance testing.
Initial systems training material was also Belgium now AG Insurance to extend the The Platform Replacement Programme PRP for developed to enable users to understand how systems support further so that we do not face a ACI was again an important focus during the year.
the new systems will operate within the wider risk of loss of systems support.
An extension has The primary objective of the PRP is to migrate business processes they support.
been purchased and further periods of extension ACIs business operations from the Fortis Group Over the course of 2010 we rationalised the ACI can be bought if necessary.
systems environment to a new platform based product range to provide similar features and on existing Amlin Group systems components.
Supporting the development benefits for policyholders, but with less than half Further objectives are to enable ACI business of the business the number of products, enabling lower cost and processes to be rationalised across product lines, more rapid deployment, by for example, reducing the adoption of a number of key Amlin standards Integrating all Amlin businesses new and existing unnecessary differences between countries or into Amlins Core Systems Architecture remains and improved operational efficiency.
a priority, supporting our continuous data The platform replacement is a complex endeavour improvement agenda.
During the year we We also established how key controls will be in which all ACIs systems will be replaced together.
fully integrated acquisitions Crowe Livestock deployed within ACIs underwriting, claims and This includes policy and claims administration Underwriting and Locktons Insolvency Risk technical accounting, through which Amlins systems, operational accounting and the general Services, while the integration of Amlin France standards for these activities will be achieved.
ledger, document production and scanning, continued.
With further work to come to complete market and broker interfaces and other components.
Key activities planned for the early part of 2011 are: this project, we are pleased with the progress that The transition to the replacement systems platform was made in the year.
Finishing the remaining software development, also requires migration of approximately 100,000 representing less than 10% of the required live policies, open claims and histories.
In May 2010 the Group announced the enhancements to vendors base software establishment of Amlin Re Europe.
By leveraging Insurers rarely replace their entire systems platform and the testing of the systems existing Amlin infrastructure, such as the core in one event.
Typically, the platform would be User acceptance testing to ensure that policy and claims management systems, and replaced component by component over a period the processes that use the systems are basic financial reporting and accounting systems, of several years, in order to reduce complexity fully operable we were able to create the infrastructure for and cost.
At least two full dress rehearsals of the Amlin Re Europe to commence underwriting transition event will be scheduled before Due to the unusual circumstances of the acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2010 with 23 staff fully the live cutover is undertaken of ACI, our initial planning assumption was that supported.
Further enhancements to the Amlin Training preparation and delivery to ACI staff.
we should aim to complete the transition within Re Europe infrastructure and capabilities will two years, rather than the three or four years continue through 2011 as the business develops.
The target date for the deployment of PRP remains that might more typically be planned.
We also mid 2011, with the remainder of the year as the During the year we further developed an concluded that step by step transition was not planned contingency period.
From the point of operational risk framework for the Group.
The possible, since it was not practical to establish cutover, ACI will be operating wholly within the framework includes operational event analysis temporary new interfaces between existing Fortis Amlin environment.
Whilst we continue to target both internal and external operational events to systems and new ACI systems during transition.
a complete cutover for both the Netherlands and ensure that the causes are understood, potential Belgium, we may move the date of the transition Planning work was completed by the end of 2009 weakness in the control environment identified later in 2011 in order to incorporate more features, and the main software solutions were selected and appropriate management action taken.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Performance Operations support 43 2010 Highlights Platform Replacement Programme for ACI on track for completion in 2011 Successful launch of Amlin Re Europe Development of Group operational risk framework Appointment of Chief Information Officer Integration of Crowe Livestock Underwriting and Locktons Insolvency Risk Services.
Industry best practice benchmarks for IT controls Enhancing oversight and risk We are developing a Group-wide Operational and management practices have been defined.
Dashboard that will allow operating Divisions to management The framework will be rolled out across Divisions report key client service metrics, and internal A key role for Operations is in developing in 2011. efficiency and risk measures on a common basis.
operational governance standards within the This will facilitate the meeting of Solvency II data As part of an ongoing review of efficiency, as Amlin operating businesses, in order to provide quality requirements as well as allowing the Amlin becomes a larger and more international assurance to the Board on the performance of sharing of best practice across the Group.
business, it was decided during the year to adopt operational controls and to assist the Group in a shared services approach for IT across the meeting legal and regulatory expectations over Group.
This will allow the formation of centres operational risk and integrity of data.
At a local of excellence in the operation of IT infrastructure, level within the business, operational oversight supplier management, and procurement that will assist businesses in monitoring and reporting can be leveraged throughout the Group and performance against agreed operational standards will enable Group synergies in terms of data and help to ensure consistency of measurement centres and IT development.
During the year and data, as shown in the chart below.
we appointed a Chief Information Officer as part of a renewed focus on our Group technology capability.
Operations support for key strategic priorities Provide assurance over operational performance and controls Board of of all divisions and functions.
Provide sufficient transparency Directors & Executives to be able to intervene if or when required.
A common approach Meet all regulatory requirements and ensure that growth Regulators occurs in a sustainable way with a level of consistency in the to meet FSA, DNB, FINMA, BMA management and control of divisions.
these needs Defined Solvency II Provide evidence of the effectiveness of controls over data quality.
Data Quality Project operational standards and Support the Risk Management Framework in assessing measures operational risks consistently across division.
Group Risk Management Support new business start ups and acquisitions by providing Group Standards that guide the Amlins growth strategy integration process.
