166 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Glossary of terms Accident year Co-insurance Facultative The calendar or accounting year in which a In the context of the European insurance market, Where the insurer accepts risks on an loss occurs.
co-insurance is the joint assumption of risk individual basis.
Actuarial best estimate Gross and net underwriting Combined ratio The result projected from a statistical model When referring to premium written or earned, in which the intention is to be neither prudent Claims ratio plus expense ratio.
losses or underwriting results, these terms denote nor optimistic.
Actuarial best estimate reserves before gross and after net the application Commercial combined should be enough to pay the expected average of reinsurance.
future liabilities but include no margin for the Also known as Package.
Policies where several IBNR emergence of worse than expected experience.
different types of insurance cover are combined into one policy.
An estimate of claims or losses which have been AIR incurred but not yet reported to the insurer.
Contingent capital Service providing up-to-date information and IFRS loss estimates for major natural catastrophes Contingent capital arrangements provide worldwide.
the option to raise capital during a defined International Financial Reporting Standards.
commitment period based upon the occurrence Beurs Incurred loss of a qualifying event, such as a defined The Dutch corporate co-insurance market.
Paid claims plus claims advised by a policyholder but not paid.
Binders Binding authority Coverholder Incurred loss ratio An authority granted by an active underwriter A company authorised by a Lloyds syndicate to an intermediary whereby that intermediary is to enter into contracts of insurance and or issue Incurred losses divided by earned premium.
entitled to accept, within certain limits, insurance insurance documentation on their behalf.
Lead non-lead business on behalf of members.
DFA Lead denotes an underwriter in the subscription Box at Lloyds Dynamic Financial Analysis uses a detailed market who sets the terms and price of a policy.
Accommodation in the underwriting room at modelling assessment of the key risks facing an Following underwriters accept the policy on the Lloyds from which business may be transacted insurer to help assess its financial position.
areas of use include the assessment of capital Letter of credit LOC requirements and understanding the possible Capacity impact of future plans and strategies.
Written undertaking by a financial institution The maximum amount of business which may to provide funding if required.
Direct and facultative be accepted by a Lloyds syndicate.
Direct property insurance and facultative Line size Catastrophe bonds reinsurance of property.
The monetary limit of a policy for a first claim Risk-based securities that pay high interest rates accepted by an underwriter.
Earned premium and provide insurance companies with a form of reinsurance to pay losses from a catastrophe.
Proportion of insurance premium recognised in Line slip They allow insurance risk to be sold to the income statement based on the estimated A facility operated by a Lloyds broker whereby institutional investors in the form of bonds, thus risk period falling in the financial year.
risks can be bound to a panel of insurers through spreading the risk.
Other financial instruments the agreement of a leading underwriter plus one ECF used to transfer catastrophe risk to capital or two following markets as specified on the slip markets include catastrophe swaps and industry Electronic claims file.
Endorsement Loss ratio CDOs Any addition to a policy, or addition to the printed See incurred loss ratio and ultimate loss ratio.
Entities owning wording, which changes or varies terms of, or cash generating assets, which sell the rights NFIP parties to, the contract.
to the cash flows from those assets along with The National Flood Insurance Programme is a US Excess of loss reinsurance XL associated risks.
federal insurance programme providing property A reinsurance that covers that part of a loss paid insurance as protection against flood losses in Cede by the reinsured which is in excess of an agreed exchange for floodplain management regulations To transfer risk from a direct insurer to amount and then pays up to the limit of the that reduce future flood damages.
Non-life Claims ratio Expense ratio General insurance companies which sell Net claims plus claims expenses divided Underwriting expenses divided by net earned policies other than life insurance, annuities by net earned premium.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Additional information Glossary of terms 167 Non-monetary assets & liabilities Retrocession Sub-prime Assets and liabilities that are accounting entries The reinsurance of liability accepted by way Mortgages provided to home buyers with lower and are not expected to be exchanged for cash of reinsurance.
Nearly all sub-prime loans in the such as unearned premium reserves.
US are packaged into mortgage backed securities Return on capital ROCE for sale to investors.
Outstanding claims After tax profit divided by opening shareholders Subscription market Losses which have been reported to the insurer equity plus debt, adjusted for any capital raisings but not yet paid.
Insurance market, such as Lloyds, whereby underwriters subscribe to proportions of risks.
Package Return on equity ROE Surplus See commercial combined.
After tax profit divided by opening shareholders equity, adjusted for any capital raisings or returns.
The amount by which the gross sum insured Personal lines accepted by the insurance company exceeds Risk-based capital its own retention.
Property casualty insurance products that are designed for and bought by individuals, including Risk-based capital is a method used to measure Surplus lines homeowners and automobile policies.
the minimum amount of capital that an insurance company needs to support its overall business A reinsurance where the surplus of the Proportional reinsurance operations taking into account the size and type reinsureds retention is ceded up to an agreed of risk taken by the insurer.
Once accepted, both parties pay their A type of reinsurance where the ceding insurer proportion of losses arising.
cedes to its reinsurer a predetermined proportion RMS of the premium and liability of those policies Total shareholder returns subject to the reinsurance agreement.
Provider of catastrophic modelling software.
Returns combining share price performance Quantitative Impact Study QIS5 and dividend payments.
Run-off A field test of the proposed quantitative aspects Treaty of Solvency II, including the solvency capital Increase or decrease to claims on old years requirement SCR under the standard formula, of account.
A reinsurance contract covering entire portfolios the minimum capital requirement MCR and the of risks.
Service company regulatory solvency balance sheet.
Ultimate loss ratio ULR A company set up to operate a binding authority Quota share on behalf of the Syndicate to write business from Total forecast claims divided by total forecast A form of proportional reinsurance where the non-Lloyds brokers or policyholders directly.
premium expected to arise from a policy or reinsurer receives a percentage of every risk, as class of business.
Losses include those paid, Sidecars defined by the reinsurance contracts, written by those notified and IBNR.
Specialty reinsurance companies designed to Underwriting year provide additional capital to a specific reinsurance Rating agency company.
Investors, such as hedge funds, invest The year to which a policy is allocated and to Credit agencies which determine insurers in a reinsurance company, the sidecar, to reinsure which all premiums and claims in respect of that financial strength and company debt ratings.
specific risks for a specific reinsurance company.
Allocation is determined by the inception date of the policy.
Realistic disaster scenario RDS Solvency II Unearned premium Modelling of the probable loss which may arise A proposed EU-wide regulatory regime which from a defined catastrophic event.
intends to align solvency capital to an insurers Proportion of insurance premium covering risk profile.
Expected to be implemented in periods after the end of the financial year.
Held in the unearned premium reserve.
A reinsurer Special purpose vehicle US admitted market assumes part of the risk and part of the premium originally taken by the insurer, known as the Corporate entity designed to isolate financial risk, The market provided by insurers who are licensed primary company.
often to allow other investors to participate in to do business in US States.
Reinsurance to close XL Specie Premium paid by a closing year of account to See excess of loss.
a later year to cover its outstanding liabilities.
A The insurance of high value items including Year of account yoa reinsurance to close is usually made three years deposits, bullion and fine art.
after the commencement of a year of account.
The year for Lloyds syndicates to which a policy Subordinated debt is allocated and to which all premiums and claims Reserves Subordinated debt is debt that takes a lower in respect of that policy are attributed.
Allocation Funds that have been set aside to meet priority than other debt.
If an issuer is liquidated is determined by the inception date of the policy.
then subordinated debt holders will only be paid after senior creditors have been fully paid.
Retention ratio The percentage of the previous years premium that is renewed.
