Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 103 Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. ACI in total and for each class of business.
Progress policies and thus reducing income.
Also, there is required to hold regulatory capital in against this plan is monitored during the year.
is a portfolio of risk already underwritten which compliance with the rules issued by its The Group also operates under a line guide that cannot be re-priced until renewal at the end of regulator and as prescribed by EU directives.
determines the maximum liability per policy the policy period.
that can be written for each class on a gross Regulatory capital is calculated by applying The Group is exposed to the impact of large or net of facultative reinsurance basis and for fixed percentages to premiums and claims.
At catastrophe events such as windstorms, each underwriter.
These limits can be exceeded 31 December 2010, ACIs available regulatory earthquakes or terrorist incidents.
Exposure in exceptional circumstances but only with the capital was 341.9 million 2009: 308.0 to such events is controlled and measured approval of senior management.
Apart from million compared to a minimum requirement through loss modelling, but the accuracy of the UK and international comprehensive motor of 112.4 million 2009: 111.0 million.
this exposure analysis is limited by the quality of liability portfolios, which have unlimited liability, For wider commercial reasons, ACIs capital data and the effectiveness of the modelling.
The all policies have a per loss limit which caps the is managed so as to support its financial Groups broad risk appetite guidelines are set size of any individual claim.
For larger sum strength ratings.
It is possible that a catastrophe insured risks facultative reinsurance coverage event exceeds the maximum expected event The method by which the Group manages may be purchased.
The Group is also exposed loss.
This is particularly the case for the direct its capital base is described on page 46 to catastrophe losses which may impact many property proportion of the loss exposure where of the Performance section under Financial risks in a single event and again reinsurance models are used to calculate a damage factor Management.
is purchased to limit the impact of loss representing the amount of damage expected aggregation from such events.
These reinsurance In addition to regulatory capital requirements, to exposed aggregate insured values from arrangements are described in the reinsurance the Group believes that it should retain a level a particular scenario.
Errors, or incorrect arrangements section on page 109. of capital within the Group to allow it to grow its assumptions, in the damage factor calculation exposures materially in the aftermath of a major Insurance liabilities are written through can result in incurred catastrophe event insurance disaster, but also to respond to other individual risk acceptances, reinsurance treaties claims higher, or lower, than predicted due to opportunities to enhance long-term growth, for or through facilities whereby Amlin is bound by unforeseen circumstances or inadequacies in example through acquisition.
The overall capital other underwriting entities.
Facility arrangements the models used.
As explained on page 109 held by the Group is driven by the business mix, delegate underwriting authority to other reinsurance is purchased to protect against nature and objectives of each business unit and underwriters, or to agents acting as coverholders, the impact of any individual or series of its context within the wider Group.
that use their judgement to write risks on our severe catastrophes.
However, the price and behalf under clear authority levels.
availability of such cover is variable and the 3.
Risk disclosures amount of loss retained by the Group may 3.1 Underwriting risk The insurance liabilities underwritten by the therefore also increase or reduce.
The Group will The Group accepts underwriting risk in a Group are reviewed on an individual risk, or alter its insurance and reinsurance exposures range of classes of business through Lloyds contract, basis and through review of portfolio to take account of the change in reinsurance Syndicate 2001, Amlin Corporate Insurance performance.
Claims arising are reserved upon availability in order to remain within the risk N. V. ACI and Amlin AG including the latters notification.
Each quarter the entire portfolio appetite guidelines.
Syndicate of business is subject to a reserving process 2001s portfolio is underwritten by Amlin whereby levels of paid and outstanding advised Sections A to E below describe the business London, Amlin UK and through the Groups but not paid claims are reviewed.
Potential and the risks of Amlin London, Amlin UK, Amlin wholly owned French coverholder, Amlin France future claims are assessed with a provision for France, Amlin AG, Amlin Re Europe, Amlin formerly known as Anglo French Underwriters incurred but not reported IBNR claims being Bermuda and Amlin Corporate Insurance.
Amlin France also writes business on made.
This provision is subject to review by behalf of ACI.
The bias of the Groups portfolio senior executives and an independent internal is towards short-tail property and accident risk actuarial assessment is usually carried out by but liability coverage is also underwritten.
the in-house actuarial team to determine the adequacy of the provision.
Whilst a detailed and In underwriting insurance or reinsurance disciplined exercise is carried out to provide for policies the Groups underwriters use their skill, claims notified, it is possible that known claims knowledge and data on past claims experience could develop and exceed the reserves carried.
to evaluate the likely claims cost and therefore the premium that should be sufficient across Furthermore, there is increased uncertainty a portfolio of risks to cover claims costs, in establishing an accurate provision for IBNR expenses and to produce an acceptable profit.
claims and there is a possibility that claims may However, due to the nature of insurance risk arise which in aggregate exceed the reserve there is no guarantee that the premium charged provision established.
This is partly mitigated will be sufficient to cover claims costs.
This by the reserving policy adopted by the Group shortfall may originate either from insufficient which is to carry reserves in excess of the premium being calculated and charged or may actuarial best estimate.
result from an unexpected, or unprecedented, The review of claims arising may result in high level of claims.
underwriters adjusting pricing levels to cater for A number of controls are deployed to limit the an unexpectedly higher trend of claims advices amount of insurance exposure underwritten.
However, this may not be possible Each year a business plan is prepared and in a competitive market and underwriters may agreed which is used to monitor the amount of respond either by accepting business with lower premium income, and exposure, to be written expected profit margins or declining to renew 104 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 3.
Risk disclosures continued Per risk property reinsurance is also written A. iii Property insurance risks A. Amlin London Property classes on an excess of loss basis but covers loss or The geographic spread of all Amlin London 2010 Current 2010 damage to any single risk within the reinsureds Gross maximum Average classes is shown below: portfolio.
This portfolio protects insureds against premium line size line size large individual property losses and will also be m m m Gross premium by geography affected by large catastrophes.
Direct and Amlin London facultative Proportional reinsurance covers a proportional property 82 21 3.1 share of a reinsureds portfolio of business Binding subject to payment of commission and or authorities 36 2 0.3 profit commission.
Almost all proportional reinsurance written by the Group in this class Notes: is property business and risk exposure is limited 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted to sterling at a rate to US$7.5 million for any one risk.
of exchange of 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency rate of exchange changes may increase or reduce the The portfolio of reinsurance business is written sterling limits.
with the aim of achieving territorial diversification.
2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded However, a severe catastrophe to a major by specific proportional treaties to Amlin Bermuda.
economic zone in Europe, Japan, Australasia 3 Premium stated gross of acquisition costs.
or the USA is likely to result in an overall loss to the portfolio prior to retrocessional reinsurance.
Property cover is provided to large commercial Amlin London operates to a maximum loss limit enterprises with high value locations and or applicable to refined scenarios which is an many locations, and also for small commercial allocation of a total Group tolerance.
The perils covered include fire, flood, Africa 1% wind and earthquake damage.
Business A. ii Other reinsurance risks Asia 8% interruption cover is also provided for loss Caribbean 4% The Group also writes other reinsurance classes of earnings sustained due to the perils and Europe 11% which contribute diversified exposure to the North America 53% properties covered but may also be extended to portfolio.
The main classes with the maximum Oceania 3% connected enterprises.
Terrorism cover is given sum insured lines are shown below: South & Central America 2% on a limited basis particularly where required by UK 15% Aviation, marine and special risks reinsurance local regulation, but nuclear and bio-chemical Other 3% classes coverage is excluded in most territories.
2010 Current 2010 A. i Property reinsurance risks Gross maximum Average Direct and facultative property insurance is premium line size line size Reinsurance property classes written for the full value of the risk, on a primary m m m 2010 Current 2010 or excess of loss basis, through individual Gross maximum Average Aviation placements, or by way of delegated underwriting premium line size line size reinsurance facilities given to coverholders binding m m m per programme 1 33 3.3 authorities.
Binding authority arrangements Catastrophe Marine delegate the day to day underwriting to reinsurance reinsurance underwriting agents working on our behalf and per programme 232 62 5.0 per programme 17 81 2.3 therefore, for these contracts we are reliant on Per risk property Special risks 14 17 5.3 coverholders exercising underwriting judgement reinsurance on our behalf.
Coverholders must have local Notes: per programme 76 25 2.2 regulatory approval, be Lloyds registered and 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted to sterling at a rate Proportional of exchange of 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency rate also approved by the Amlin Binding Authority reinsurance 48 5 1.2 of exchange changes may increase or reduce the Committee.
For all binding authorities facilities sterling limits.
Notes: we receive a monthly or quarterly bordereau 2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted to sterling at a which is checked by our underwriting staff.
We by specific proportional treaties to Amlin Bermuda.
rate of exchange of 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency control the underwriting by setting clear authority rate of exchange changes may increase or reduce the 3 Premium stated gross of acquisition costs.
levels for coverholders stipulated within the sterling limits.
The business writes a portfolio of aviation and binding authority agreement, regularly monitoring 2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded marine reinsurance risk which protects insurers performance and periodically carrying out by specific proportional treaties to Amlin Bermuda.
against losses to their direct portfolios of underwriting visits and or commissioning third 3 Premium stated gross of acquisition costs.
This is written on an excess of party audits.
The coverholder is incentivised Catastrophe reinsurance protects insurance loss basis.
to produce an underwriting profit through the companies against catastrophic losses, such payment of profit commission.
However, with The special risks account is mostly terrorism as windstorm or earthquake, which may impact the day to day underwriting not controlled by excess of loss reinsurance emanating from more than one risk written by the client.
the Group, there is a risk that coverholder all parts of the world and written without underwriting or claim decisions are made This portfolio is a key part of the insurance risk excess of loss reinsurance protection.
which would not have been made by Amlin written by the Group.
Programmes are placed underwriters or claims staff.
The maximum value on a layered or excess of loss basis.
Territorial insured under the Binders class is currently exposures, from a number of programmes, are limited to US$3 million at any one location.
much higher, but are carefully recorded and analysed through loss simulations or realistic disaster scenarios.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 105 The property portfolio is also exposed to an Property and casualty other classes The hull and cargo account is worldwide, 2010 Current 2010 above average frequency of individual fire, covering property damage to ships and loss, or Gross maximum Average explosion or weather related claims.
The damage, to a large variety of cargo or goods in premium line size line size premium charged for the coverage given may transit.
The hull account can include machinery m m m not be sufficient to cover all claims made in any breakdown and the account written has Accident & year, particularly in a year in which there is an historically been targeted towards lower value health 3130.3 abnormal frequency of claims.
This account is tonnage, smaller brownwater vessels and Auto 2630.4 mainly situated in the USA and is therefore fishing boats.
However, as anticipated following Notes: exposed to large catastrophe events such as the employment of a new leading class California earthquake and hurricane losses.
1 Limits are set in US dollars converted to sterling at a rate underwriter in December 2009, larger blue of exchange of 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency rate water ocean hull risks such as cruise liners, A. iv US casualty risks of exchange changes may increase or reduce the tankers and bulk carriers have also been sterling limits.
The US casualty portfolio of business provides written.
These accounts can be impacted by insurance and reinsurance cover to individuals, 2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded attritional claims of a small size as well as a by specific proportional treaties to Amlin Bermuda.
or companies, in order to indemnify them single individual large claim.
The cargo account 3 Premium stated gross of acquisition costs.
against legal liability arising from their activities in particular could also be involved in a major and actions or for incidents occurring on their natural catastrophe loss.
In an economic The accident and health class is written through property.
The account is currently written to a recession, it is expected that premium income medical expense schemes in the USA and direct maximum liability of US$6 million on any one will fall from these areas as trade reduces and personal accident cover, or personal accident claim but average lines are US$0.8 million hull values are impacted by reduced freight reinsurance, worldwide.
Medical expense cover on any one claim.
This trend has occurred in 2010 with is subject to a high frequency of claim and was 47 million.
reductions in the quantity and value of cargo significant medical cost inflation.
Personal The portfolio is made up of specialist general shipments.
It is also possible that claims accident insurance and reinsurance could be casualty, professional indemnity, medical frequency could increase due to increased impacted by a single or series of accidents to malpractice and errors and omissions cover.
economic pressures affecting fraud and high value insured individuals or from a multiple Small amounts of directors and officers theft claims.
death and injury event such as an air crash or liability and auto liability are also written.
The energy portfolio is mainly offshore rig and class is mostly written on a claims notified basis construction policies which may be impacted by The auto class covers property damage responding to all claims made during a defined large individual claims from construction fault only fire, theft and collision in the USA period except for small amounts of general or property damage such as fire or explosion, and property damage and third party motor liability business which may be written on a but is also exposed to severe catastrophe losses liability combined cover in other international losses occurring basis the policy responds to in the North Sea and Gulf of Mexico.
This class could be impacted by losses which occur during the period even if includes control of well to limit loss of oil and unexpected claim frequency, a multi vehicle reported after the policy has expired.
avoid pollution and also some business event such as a severe flood and also large Claims from this class emanate from interruption cover which indemnifies companies bodily injury award claims emanating from professional error, negligence or an accident for loss of production.
which causes injury, damage or financial loss.
War business includes aviation, marine and The account is vulnerable to a high frequency A. vi Marine risks on land terrorism coverage.
The account is of claims, but not individual large losses as Syndicate 2001 writes a broad account of exposed to single incidents or a series of losses the cost to the Group of any individual claim marine risks with maximum lines as follows: arising from concerted action.
Claims frequency may be impacted Marine classes confiscation and contract frustration business by a generic claim type which impacts many 2010 Current 2010 is also written.
individuals and re insurance policies such as Gross maximum Average poor housing design or bad medical practice.
premium line size line size Specie business consists of the insurance m m m The size of many individual claims is subject to against damage or theft to fine art, the contents the decisions arising from the US court system Hull 28102.0 of vaults and other high value goods including which can be higher than anticipated.
There is jewellers block and cash in transit.
The fine art Cargo 26173.0 also the potential for US courts to impose a may be shown at exhibitions which have very Energy 57254.4 bad faith judgement on insurers if it is deemed high aggregate values at risk.
The class is War and that the insurer has acted improperly in trying therefore exposed to the potential for a terrorism 35 50 8.3 to avoid contractual obligations.
Such awards frequency of small claims and also large Specie 10242.5 can, in exceptional circumstances, be much individual losses.
Some specie is written in Bloodstock higher than the value of the insurance claim.
catastrophe zones e. g. California.
livestock 13 40.5 A. v Accident and health, auto and special risks The bloodstock account provides coverage for Yacht hull Syndicate 2001 also writes other property and death, illness or injury to horses mainly in the and liability 31 5 1.2 casualty classes which contribute diversified UK.
Business from the USA, Australia and Liability 28575.1 exposure to the portfolio.
South Africa is also written.
This covers racing Notes: or eventing horses and breeding studs.
The The main classes with the maximum sum 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted at a rate of average value insured is below 1 million but insured lines are shown below: exchange of 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency rate there is the potential for an aggregate loss, of exchange changes may increase or reduce the sterling limits.
2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded by specific proportional treaties to Amlin Bermuda.
3 Premium stated gross of acquisition costs.
106 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 Notes: 3.
Risk disclosures continued B. Amlin UK 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted at a rate of B. i Non motor risks such as a stable fire, which could cause exchange of 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency rate of Non motor classes multiple claims.
exchange changes may increase or reduce the sterling 2010 Current 2010 limits.
Crowe Livestock, a leading Lloyds coverholder Gross maximum Average 2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded by premium line size line size for the insurance of livestock, was acquired in specific proportional treaties to Amlin Bermuda.
This agency writes a broad 3 Premium stated gross of acquisition costs.
Employers portfolio of protection for livestock and specialist liability 21 27 10.0 products such as zoo animals, with a maximum The airline account is exposed to large claims Public products line of any one policy of US$10 million.
The arising from property damage, death or injury liability 22 12 3.8 company also writes employers liability cover for arising from aircraft accidents.
The domicile livestock business up to a limit of 10 million.
Professional of the airline and passengers has a notable Again, an event affecting several animals across indemnity 25 7 1.6 influence on the cost of claims, for example many policies such as disease could result in a US court awards are generally higher.
UK commercial loss significantly higher than this.
property package 88 52 0.5 The general aviation account covers smaller Financial Yacht business covers property damage and aircraft or cargo and covers owners or institutions third party injury for small leisure boats and operators, against loss or damage and third fidelity and craft.
The bulk of the account is smaller value party injury.
The risk excess account is a book liability 6 6 1.9 yachts in the UK and Europe, although there of general aviation reinsurance business written Notes: are a number of binders written by coverholders to protect a small number of insurers against elsewhere, such as Scandinavia, Canada and 1 Premium stated gross of acquisition costs.
There is an expectation of a large Amlin UK writes three classes of UK liability.
Airport liability insurance covers airport number of small claims, as average values are The vast majority of the business emanates operators, refuellers and air traffic controllers low in comparison to other claims written in from the UK with the balance mainly from against losses arising from injury caused by the Group.
Third party liability yacht claims Ireland and Canada.
their activities or occurring on their premises.
arise from injury or damage caused by one Product liability covers manufacturers against of our policyholders to third parties.
There is Employers liability insurance protects employers accidents arising from faulty parts or equipment, against accident or injury to employees.
This is also the potential for a large catastrophe loss or poor servicing of aircraft.
Both airport and such as a UK windstorm where there are large written on a losses occurring basis covering product liability coverage is written on a losses events that occurred in the policy period even if aggregate sums insured in coastal regions occurring basis meaning that claims advices such as southern England.
they are not notified until after expiry for limits can be made after the policy has expired.
Space up to 27 million per employer.
The marine liability portfolio is written to protect insurance covers property and liability during Public liability insurance provides coverage, ship-owners, harbours, charterers and energy launch and the operation of satellites whilst in often written in conjunction with employers companies against damage or injury to third orbit for a limited period, normally of one year.
liability, for accident or injury occurring to parties.
This includes the potential for pollution The aviation account is subject to both small clients, customers or another third party as a damage and clean up claims.
The account and large claims.
Claims involving loss of life result of contact with the insureds personnel, could suffer a large catastrophe incident from a or serious injury to high earning passengers or property or products.
This is written on a losses collision causing death of crew and passengers third parties are subject to the ongoing inflation occurring basis currently, for limits up to or an oil, or chemical, spill which could incur of court awards particularly in the US.
accidents involving the potential death of 500 A. vii Aviation risks Professional indemnity covers liability which or more passengers are feasible and could The Group, through Syndicate 2001, underwrites may arise from services provided by the assured, potentially result in a gross claim to the business direct and facultative aviation business domiciled for example as a result of negligence or error of more than the vertical reinsurance in most parts of the world.
Maximum lines are which may lead to financial or physical loss.
programme if, for example, two large aircraft as follows: This includes, but is not limited to, services were to collide.
Space losses are generally large from architects, engineers, surveyors, single claim amounts caused by launch failure Aviation classes advertising firms, medical professionals and or operational failure in orbit.
The principal 2010 Current 2010 financial advisers and is written on a claims Gross maximum Average aviation accounts are protected by a premium line size line size made basis covering losses notified in the reinsurance programme on both a risk sharing m m m policy period.
proportional and excess of loss basis.
The Airline hull & Group reinsurance arrangements are discussed Amlin UK package policies combine one liability 25 84 34.0 on page 109.
The space account is written with or more of the liability coverages, mainly General aviation risks shared with Amlin Bermuda but is not employers and public liability with motor hull & liability 15 57 18.5 protected by excess of loss reinsurance.
and or property damage protection.
Stand Risk excess alone property protection is also written within hull & liability 10 57 11.0 this class, mainly on a 100% basis for small and Airports liability 10 57 28.9 medium commercial and household properties.
Products 6 50 21.7 The property owners account has continued to develop since the recruitment of a specialist Space hull & liability 4 46 9.1 underwriting team in June 2009.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 107 Through AUA Insolvency Risk Services Ltd, Claims frequency has improved in recent years Amlin France classes 2010 Current 2010 an FSA registered broker, Amlin UK writes a due to car and road safety measures but can Gross Maximum Average portfolio of UK insolvency practitioners which fluctuate due to factors such as weather Premium line size Line Size provides protection against fraud or negligence conditions.
UK inflation is a key factor in m m m committed by the practitioners and also determining the size of motor claims.
Car Property protects the property assets under their values affect the size of theft claims and for Synd 2001 25 20 27 management.
physical damage claims size is linked to repair ACI 18 50 1.0 costs.
Inflationary pressure on court awards The Group also writes a small account of Marine within the UK and Irish legal systems impacts financial institutions policies covering fidelity, liability claim values.
Government intervention Synd 2001 4 10 1.8 professional indemnity and directors and such as liability award limit changes or expense Specie officers liability for companies providing recoveries for government bodies, including the Synd 2001 3 3 0.3 financial services.
The current maximum line National Health Service, will also impact claim Professional is 6 million.
Approximately half of the income size.
For the motor account, severe bodily injury indemnity is from Western European financial institutions and catastrophe damage claims e. g. UK flood with the balance spread broadly by territory.
Synd 2001 5 5 0.7 are limited through the purchase of a Coverage is given on a claims made basis.
Liability reinsurance programme, the highest layer ACI 2 13 2.1 The expected claims costs from these lines of which is unlimited.
of business may be impacted by larger than Notes: Motor insurance is a highly competitive area anticipated damage awards to injured parties as 1 Premium stated gross of acquisition costs.
of insurance and pricing levels fluctuate.
well as due to an unforeseen increase in generic 2 Maximum line size is shown after facultative reinsurance.
Whilst underwriters accept business subject claims such as industrial disease or other health to sufficient rates per vehicle, in a year where In respect of property, Amlin France acts as hazards.
It is expected that claims frequency there is an unexpectedly high level of claims both a leading underwriter and co-insurer for will increase during an economic downturn as the total premium may not be sufficient to industrial high hazard risks providing material unemployment leads to an increase in action cover all the claims.
There is also a risk that damage insurance for the industrial and against employers and people are more likely to legal changes impact bodily injury payments commercial premises of small and medium seek redress for third party advice or behaviour and result in a requirement to increase reserves sized enterprises.
Amlin France also provides which may have led to financial loss or injury.
a comprehensive package, including liability It is also possible that many claims could arise cover for discotheques, bowling alleys, C. Amlin France under many policies from a common cause restaurants, bars and casinos.
Perils offered such as financial advice or generic building In May 2010 Anglo French Underwriters SAS include fire, lightning and associated risks, AFU and the French operations of ACI were defect.
The financial institutions account could electrical damage, water damage, storm, be affected by a major fraud or a series of merged to form Amlin France.
Prior to the tempest, hail, snow and glass breakage.
merger AFU was the foremost managing related liability claims arising from banking, Optional coverages include business investment activity, stockbroking or other general agent serving Lloyds in France and ACI interruption, indirect losses, theft from had started to build a property and liability copractices.
The property portfolio could sustain individuals and theft from break-ins.
Building a large loss from the effects of a UK windstorm insurance business in France.
The merger has insurance is also offered for owners who are created a business with increased critical mass or flood event.
with greater recognition in the French market.
B. ii UK motor insurance risks In the marine field, Amlin France provides yacht Syndicate 2001s motor insurance risk is Drawing business from a large network of insurance which includes cover for damage, predominantly UK business covering fire, theft, brokers across France, Amlin France is able theft and liability as well as for the costs of collision and third party property and bodily to offer a wide range of direct and facultative marine assistance and marine personal accident.
2010 gross premium was insurance products designed to respond to Worldwide stock and transit insurance is also 126 million.
Under the requirements of UK the needs of both individuals and corporate provided with All Risks coverage granted on a law third party liability coverage is unlimited, clients.
Amlin Frances business is situated start to finish basis from the point of supplier to but matching reinsurance is purchased.
Transit cover includes all account is biased towards commercial clients Amlin France writes a diverse book of business periods when the goods are stocked, in whatever such as coach operators, haulage companies, on behalf of Syndicate 2001 including property, location and without any break in coverage.
commercial vehicle fleets and company cargo, professional liability and specie through executive fleets.
The Syndicate leads two Jewellers block cover is provided for high value a network of more than 1,350 independent facilities for fleets involved in the transportation contents.
All risks coverage is given for stock retail brokers.
Although the vast majority of of hazardous waste.
A small UK agriculture and within the premises, including for break-in, holdthese risks have been written on behalf of a specialist private car account is also written.
Cover is also given Syndicate 2001, there continue to be a limited for commercial retail premises such as gunsmiths, number of policies which do not involve the perfume and clothing shops and art galleries, Group.
The portfolio consists of the following including damage caused to art while on show classes with maximum and average line sizes: at exhibitions and damage to art kept in private residences.
A comprehensive multi-risk product is provided for retailers which includes an extension for fire and water damage within the premises, liability coverage and the preservation of goodwill or business interruption following a loss.
108 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 3.
Risk disclosures continued Amlin Bermudas direct business has strong Gross premium by geography Professional indemnity and financial guarantee similarities to the portfolio of the Reinsurance Amlin Bermuda insurance is provided to insurance and banking business unit of Syndicate 2001.
All of the intermediaries as well as financial advisers, real business written emanates from London broker estate agents and financial and investment markets and is frequently seasoned business consultants.
This is a multi-layered package already underwritten by Syndicate 2001.
Risk which responds to the particular needs of balance is provided by a whole account quota several regulated professions which may share of Syndicate 2001.
This is further require differing types of cover.
supplemented by a number of specific variable quota share treaties on short tail Amlin France also offers insurance for events, classes such as property and energy.
including cancellation cover, organisers liability, all risks exhibition cover and all risks Property reinsurance is written through treaty coverage on equipment belonging to, hired by arrangements on a proportional, individual risk or installed by the assured.
Amlin France also excess of loss, or catastrophe excess of loss provides personal accident insurance for basis.
The catastrophe reinsurance portfolio professions involving risk and the practice of is the largest class of insurance risk written by sporting activities which are deemed hazardous.
Exposures to each programme are currently limited to US$12.5 million per For ACI, Amlin France writes a portfolio of large Africa 1% risk and US$75 million any one catastrophe property and liability risks.
The property book Asia 8% programme.
Overall catastrophe loss limits are is mostly written on a co-insurance basis for Caribbean 5% applied in relation to specific scenarios as an Europe 8% commercial or industrial premises.
The liability allocation of total Group tolerances.
The current North America 61% account provides general liability coverage for highest modelled loss is US$239 million at Oceania 4% French industrial and commercial enterprises.
UK 12% D. Amlin AG The special risks account includes small Other 1% In October 2010 the Group re-domiciled its premium classes mostly relating to terrorism wholly-owned subsidiary, Amlin Bermuda Ltd, reinsurance but also includes nuclear, shortAmlin Bermuda has continued to write a portfolio from Bermuda to Switzerland following approval term trade credit and contingency which is of reinsurance business on a direct basis and to from the Swiss Financial Market Authority and written in all parts of the world.
reinsure part of the Syndicate 2001 portfolio.
The new The direct written portfolio consists of the Zurich-based underwriting business trading The accident and health class is written through following classes with maximum line sizes as Amlin Re Europe writes all major non-life medical expense schemes in the USA and provides and split by territory: reinsurance classes.
Personal accident reinsurance could be impacted by a Amlin Bermuda Ltd, which was established in Amlin Bermuda direct business risks single or series of accidents to high value insured December 2005, has become a Bermuda-based 2010 Current 2010 individuals or from a multiple death and injury Gross Maximum Average branch of Amlin AG.
event such as an air crash or natural catastrophe.
Premium line size Line Size D. i. Amlin Re Europe US$m US$m US$m To date Amlin Bermuda has written risks with Amlin Re Europe underwrites property Catastrophe limited reinsurance protection and therefore it catastrophe, property risk, marine, liability reinsurance has higher net retained exposures to individual and motor business on a proportional and per programme 266 75 7.2 risk losses or catastrophe than the Syndicate non-proportional basis.
The maximum line for Proportional currently bears.
all classes is 20m 20% for unlimited motor reinsurance 67 19 1.4 policies.
Business is sourced from Europe E. Amlin Corporate Insurance Per risk property and Israel.
By January 2011 Amlin Re Europe In July 2009 Amlin acquired Fortis Corporate reinsurance had written 3.1m of income attaching to Insurance N. V. subsequently renamed Amlin per programme 70 15 2.8 the 2010 underwriting year and a further Corporate Insurance N. V. ACI, a leading Special risks 26 32 5.5 66m in respect of 2011. commercial insurer operating in the Benelux.
As Marine described in Section C, ACIs French operation D ii.
Amlin Bermuda reinsurance 6 55 8.1 was merged with Amlin France in May 2010.
The geographic spread of all Amlin Bermuda Accident & health 3 7 3.4 classes is shown below: ACI writes four main classes of business: Bloodstock 1 1 1.1 motor, liability, property and marine, mainly Casualty 1 52.4 for commercial clients locally.
Exposures are Notes: predominantly in Belgium, the Netherlands and 1 Premium stated gross of acquisition costs.
France apart from marine transportation risks or where an insured has exposures overseas.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 109 ACI classes the book is cars, vans or commercial vehicles.
US$175 million for the first loss, although Current 2010 2010 There is a large underwriting agency book in aggregate cover is also provided at a lower Maximum Gross Average the Netherlands.
level for the third and additional loss excess line size Premium Line Size of US$100 million retention.
m m m Captive business is written in Belgium as fronting Property and for captive reinsurers of large industrial companies.
ACI buys a comprehensive programme for each engineering 141 50 3.9 ACI retains small amounts of these risks but class of business.
Specific cover is placed for receive a fronting fee.
Analysis is carried out engineering, personal accident, motor, liability, Hull 173 25 0.8 on captives to manage potential credit risk.
A general programme Cargo 180 25 0.9 is placed for the remaining marine exposures Builders risks 76 50 3.8 Reinsurance arrangements and the property account is protected by both Syndicate 2001 purchases proportional Liability 111 13 2.1 per risk and catastrophe excess of loss, which reinsurance to supplement line size and to Fleet Motor 59 unlimited unlimited is now combined with the Groups other UK reduce exposure on individual risks, notably for and French exposures.
Notes: aviation and large property risks.
A part of the 1 This analysis excludes captive companies where there is premium ceded under such facilities is placed There is no guarantee that reinsurance coverage little or minimum retention of risks.
with Amlin Bermuda and for risks incepting will be available to meet all potential loss 2 Maximum linesize is shown after facultative reinsurance.
during 2009, a separate proportional facility circumstances as, for very severe catastrophe 3 Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs.
is placed for the excess of loss reinsurance losses, it is possible that the full extent of the portfolio through a Special Purpose Syndicate cover bought is not sufficient.
Any loss amount ACIs property account is mainly large schedules at Lloyds, Syndicate 6106.
Syndicate 2001 which exceeds the programme would be retained of properties e. g. for municipalities written on also purchases a number of excess of loss by the Group.
It is also possible that a dispute a coinsurance basis in the Netherlands and reinsurances to protect itself from severe could arise with a reinsurer which reduces the larger commercial industrial clients in Belgium frequency or size of losses.
The structure of recovery made.
The reinsurance programme and France.
The company is a leader in both the programme and type of protection bought is bought to cover the expected claims arising territories.
Overseas exposure is written mainly will vary from year to year depending on the on the original portfolio.
However, it is possible from the large commercial industrial portfolio availability and price of cover.
for there to be a mismatch, or a gap in cover, where there are client operations overseas.
which would result in a higher than expected On large risks, individual facultative reinsurance The engineering book includes contractors retained loss.
may be bought which protects against a loss to all risks, machinery breakdown and some that specific risk.
Many parts of the programme also have limited computer equipment.
reinstatements and therefore the number of Specific risk excess of loss reinsurance is The marine portfolio covers general cargo, claims which may be recovered from second or purchased for each class of business.
The a large commodities book for Belgian trading subsequent major losses is limited.
It is possible amount of cover bought depends upon the line corporations, hull, land equipment, builders for the programme to be exhausted by a series size written for each class.
The deductibles or risk where ACI are a recognised market leader, of losses in one annual period and it may not be amounts borne prior to recovery vary from class inland hull and large yachts.
This portfolio is possible to purchase additional reinsurance at to class as do the amounts of co-reinsurance or being re-underwritten due to high loss ratios all or for an acceptable price.
This would result unplaced protection.
Specific programmes are in some sub-classes and the mix of business in the Group bearing higher losses from further purchased to deal with large individual risk is therefore likely to change.
It should also be noted that losses, such as fire or large energy losses, the renewal date of the reinsurance programmes ACI also underwrites a range of marine products and these programmes may be combined does not necessarily correspond to that of via an agency agreement with Raets Marine at a higher level into a general programme the business written.
Where business is not including marine liability, cargo and hull.
protected by risk attaching reinsurance which The non-marine liability portfolio in the UK and French direct property business is now provides coverage for the duration of all the Netherlands is professional indemnity and protected by a European wind programme policies written this reinsurance protection general liability written on a claims-made basis, which also protects ACIs Dutch and French could expire resulting in an increase in possible particularly for property related professions exposures.
loss retained by Syndicate 2001 if renewal and miscellaneous professions such as travel of the programme is not achieved.
The combined claims to Syndicate 2001 from operators.
In Belgium, ACI are a recognised several losses which aggregate in a single Amlin Bermuda purchased combined aggregate leader in medical liability and general liability catastrophe event are protected by catastrophe and catastrophe excess of loss protection in 2010 is written on a losses occurring form.
A separate excess of loss on excess of to protect its non-proportional and proportional Across the portfolio maximum and average loss programme is purchased to protect the treaty portfolio.
line sizes are higher for ACI than those written excess of loss reinsurance portfolio against ACI buys a comprehensive programme for each in Amlin London.
This reflects the leading such losses.
Since 2006, the amount of excess class of business.
Specific cover is placed for position of the company in the local industrial, of loss reinsurance purchased is lower and for engineering, personal accident, motor, liability, commercial and marine markets.
Furthermore, the first loss only responds to losses in excess energy and builders risks.
A general programme there is limited aggregation between this of US$135 million.
However, in 2010 combined is placed for the remaining marine exposures and portfolio and catastrophe reinsurance business aggregate and catastrophe protection was also the property account is protected by both per risk written elsewhere in the Group and all of ACIs purchased to provide some lower level cover and catastrophe excess of loss.
book is protected by reinsurance on a per risk in the event of multiple losses to the portfolio.
and catastrophe excess of loss basis.
Amlin Bermuda purchased combined aggregate The commercial motor account comprises and catastrophe excess of loss protection in of domestic company fleets including a large 2010 to protect its non-proportional and leasing and rental fleet written in the Netherlands proportional treaty portfolio in excess of and a smaller portfolio in Belgium.
Over 70% of 110 Aml Amlin plc Annual Repor in plc Annual Report 201 t 2010 0 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 3.
Risk disclosures continued There is no guarantee that the assumptions and method of acceptance and is also determined Realistic Disaster Scenario RDS analysis techniques deployed in calculating these event by the deductible of each policy written.
For The Group has a defined event risk appetite loss estimate figures are accurate.
casualty business, the policy form will determine which determines the maximum net loss that whether claims can be made on a claims made Furthermore, there could also be a loss which the Group intends to limit its exposure with as advised or on a losses occurring determined exceeds these figures.
The likelihood of such a respect to major modelled catastrophe event by date of loss basis.
This has a significant catastrophe is considered to be remote, but the scenarios.
Currently these are a maximum of impact on the reporting period in which claims most severe scenarios modelled are simulated 165 million for Syndicate 2001 and US$330 can be notified.
In setting the IBNR provision events and these simulations could prove to million for Amlin Bermuda any one zone or estimates are made for the ultimate premium be unreliable.
180 million for Syndicate 2001 and US$360 and ultimate gross claims value for each million for a multi-zonal loss.
ACI operates with Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets: underwriting year.
Allowance is then made for a maximum event limit of 30 million for the Calculation of incurred but not reported IBNR anticipated reinsurance recoveries to reach a and claims development modelled European storm event and Amlin AG net claim position.
Reinsurance recoveries are Amlin adopts a rigorous process in the calculation has a potential maximum of 100 million for a calculated for outstanding and IBNR claims, of an adequate provision for insurance claim European windstorm.
The Group Catastrophe sometimes through the use of historical liabilities.
The overriding aim is to establish risk team are responsible for aggregating recovery rates or statistical projections, and reserves which are expected to be at least potential scenarios and as at 1 January 2011 provisions are made as appropriate for bad debt adequate and that there is consistency from levels of exposure are significantly below or possible disputes.
The component of ultimate year to year.
Therefore, the level of reserves are the potential maximum tolerances, loss from IBNR provision estimates and reinsurance set at a level above the actuarial best estimate European windstorm scenario being 286 million recoveries that relates to future events position.
However, there is a risk that, due to for the Group.
At present the Group is not occurring to the existing portfolio is removed in unforeseen circumstances, the reserves carried utilising the full extent of its risk appetite.
order to reflect GAAP accounting practice.
are not sufficient to meet insurance claim These scenarios are extraordinary events with To assist with the process of determining liabilities reported in future years on policy an estimated occurrence probability of less than the reserves, triangulation statistics for each class periods which have expired.
1 in 100 years estimated for the natural peril or are produced which show the historical Process and methodology elemental losses.
The Group also adopts risk development of premium, as well as paid and The reserving process commences with appetite maximum net limits for a number incurred losses, for each underwriting year, from the proper recording and reporting of claims of other non-elemental scenarios, including inception to the date of review.
ACI has similar information which consists of paid and notified aviation collision and North Sea rig loss.
statistics based on the date of premium receipt or outstanding claims.
For the London market and claim advice rather than policy inception.
The risk appetite policy recognises that there business information is received through Each class triangulation is also independently may be circumstances in which the net event Xchanging the London market bureau and, analysed by the internal actuarial team using limit could be exceeded.
Such circumstances in the case of Amlin UK business, service actuarial software as appropriate.
The aim of the include changes in rates of exchange, non companies, ACI and Amlin Bermuda, directly actuarial exercise is to produce best estimate from brokers and policyholders.
Claims records renewal or delay in renewal of reinsurance ultimate premium and claims amounts which can protection, reinsurance security failure, are maintained for each class by the underwriting be compared to, or used to produce, the figures year to which the policy incepts.
For notified or or regulatory and legal requirements.
Amlin outstanding claims, a case reserve is established A detailed analysis of catastrophe exposures is London, Amlin UK, Amlin France and ACI based on the views of underwriting management carried out every quarter and measured against meetings are held in which executive and claims managers, using external legal or risk appetite.
The following assumptions and management, actuarial staff and business expert advice where appropriate.
This reserve procedures are used in the process: management discuss claims issues and analyse is expected to be sufficient to meet the claim the proposed and independently generated payment when it is finally determined.
For some The data used reflects the information reserves to conclude the provision to be carried.
classes of business, particularly liability business, supplied to the Group by insureds and settlement may be several years after the initial ceding companies.
This may prove to be For Amlin Bermuda, which commenced notification of the claim, as it may be subject to incomplete, inaccurate or could develop underwriting in 2005, historical statistics for complexities or court action.
For claims received during the policy period: Syndicate 2001s relevant classes of business from Xchanging, the market reserve is generally have been used as a guide for actuarial review The exposures are modelled using a mixture set by the lead underwriter, but there are in addition to Amlin Bermudas own data and the of stochastic models and underwriter input circumstances on larger claims where Amlin review discussion is conducted in conference or to arrive at damage factors these factors will post higher reserves than those notified.
are then applied to the assumed aggregate To establish a provision for IBNR claims, exposure to produce gross loss estimates.
Final reserve submissions are provided for the the underwriting and claims teams in the UK, The damage factors may prove to be approval of Boards, as required.
Bermuda and France use their experience and inadequate: Areas of uncertainty knowledge of the class of business to estimate The reinsurance programme as purchased The reserves established can be more or less the potential future development of each class is applied a provision for reinsurer than adequate to meet eventual claims arising.
ACI adopts a different The level of uncertainty varies significantly from counterparty failure is included in the approach with Group Actuarial producing a set analysis but may prove to be inadequate: class to class but can arise from inadequate case of best estimate reserves to which local and reserves for known large losses and catastrophes management add additional prudence based on or from inadequate provision for IBNR.
The their knowledge of the business.
Statistics are Reinstatement premiums both payable impact on profit before tax of a - 1% variation used in all cases to fully recognise the different and receivable are included.
in the total net claims reserves would be - potential development of each class of business.
The development period varies by class, by Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 111 Large loss case reserves are determined through The model requires the input of a large number in the eyes of rating agencies and clients.
This careful analysis of the individual claim, often with of explicit parameters.
Those inputs are based analysis includes our modelling of the Group, the advice of legal advisers.
Liability claims arising on many different sources of information including the ACI portfolio of assets and from events such as the 11 September 2001 including detailed historical data on premium liabilities.
The parameterisation of the ACI terrorist attacks in the US are examples of and claims, forecast income and exposures, portfolio is at a relatively immature stage and cases where there continues to be some estimated rating levels and catastrophe loss therefore the contribution of this element may uncertainty over the eventual value data from proprietary models applied to Amlins develop as our understanding improves.
It enables projection of an estimated new European reinsurance portfolio written by mean ultimate loss ratio and the distribution of Amlin Re Europe, modelling is at an early stage Property catastrophe claims, such as earthquake results around it.
The model explicitly recognises and will develop significantly over the next five or hurricane losses, can take several months, diversification credit, since class results are years.
or years, to develop as adjusters visit damaged not all strongly correlated and thus individual property and agree claim valuations.
Until all 2011 forecast m classes are unlikely to all produce losses or the claims are settled it requires an analysis of Underwriting risk 367 profits in the same year.
Due to the inherent the area damaged, contracts exposed and the Reserving risk 283 uncertainty of predicting the key drivers of use of models to simulate the loss against the business performance, including in particular Credit reinsurance portfolio of exposure in order to arrive at an claims levels, any individual simulation of the counterparty risk 53 estimate of ultimate loss to the Group.
There is model viewed in isolation cannot be relied upon Investment market risk 13 uncertainty over the adequacy of information as an accurate forecast.
However, the output Liquidity risk 3 and modelling of major losses for a period from many thousands of simulated results can Operational risk 61 of several months after a catastrophe loss.
provide a picture of the possible distribution of Account should also be taken of factors which Discounting credit 54 insurance business results.
This output is useful may influence the size of claims such as Diversified result 700 in developing an understanding of the losses increased inflation or a change in law.
which may be borne by the business at varying Notes: The long tail liability classes, for which a large levels of probability.
1 All figures are based on business plan forecasts which IBNR has to be established, represent the most There are a large number of uncertainties and are currently under review for changes in the trading difficult classes to reserve because claims environment, interest rate outlook and movements in difficulties in achieving accurate results from are notified and settled several years after rates of exchange.
Some of the key issues are: the expiry of the policy concerned.
This is 2 These figures are derived from Amlins Group DFA model particularly the case for US liability written The model is based on a best estimate view and based on data as at the end of Q4 2010. on a losses occurring basis.
of business volumes and rate expectations, 3 No dividend or tax is considered.
which may not be borne out in practice: 4 Investment market risk now includes explicit modelling The use of historical development data, adjusted of currency risk.
for known changes to wordings or the claims A significant change in the portfolio of 5 Non-sterling amounts have been converted at environment, is fundamental to reserving these business could result in the past not being market rates of exchange as at Q4 2010 US$1.56: classes.
It is used in conjunction with the advice a reliable guide to the future: C$1.55: 1.17. of lawyers and third party claims adjusters on Changing external environmental factors 6 Figures include an allowance for investment returns material single claims.
generated on assets backing the insurance liabilities may not be assessed accurately: i. e. discounting.
The discounting credit shown represents The allocation of IBNR to the reinsurance the release from the balance sheet by discounting the Model risk may be significant in such programme is an uncertain exercise as there mean best estimate reserves.
a complex and developing discipline: is limited knowledge of the size or number 7 Investment income includes Group corporate surplus assets.
Investment risk after diversification remains of future claims advices.
The assumption over Key assumptions over levels of correlation positive since at around the 1 in 200 level total investment future reinsurance recoveries may be incorrect between classes may over time prove to income on both surplus and technical assets exceeds the and unforeseen disputes could arise which would be incorrect: and investment income implicitly assumed via discounting on reduce recoveries made.
Catastrophe model inputs, which estimate the 8 No credit has been taken for carried reserve margins.
Dynamic financial analysis DFA modelling of risk severity and frequency of large catastrophes To improve our risk management capability, on the portfolio, may be incorrect.
and our assessment of capital requirements, The result reproduced in the table below Amlin has developed a stochastic model covering represents the modelled loss sustained by all entities of the Group.
This enables standalone the business from a single 1 in 200 bad year modelling for each entity as well as a consolidated i. e. at the 0.5 percentile.
This probability is the Group total position.
Amlin is now currently calculation benchmark required by the FSA working to incorporate Amlin Re Europe into and Lloyds.
However, it does not represent this model.
The output from the model includes the level of capital required for Amlin to support a distribution of outcomes from reserves for current and expected business levels, which prior written liabilities, investment performance, should be considered over a longer period of and new business underwriting performance.
Furthermore, Amlin is required to The result is a combined view of the expected carry higher levels of capital which are sufficient best estimate mean profitability and the range of possibilities around it.
112 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 3.
Risk disclosures continued Claims development The tables below illustrate the development of the estimates of ultimate cumulative claims for the consolidated Group excluding ACI, Amlin London, Amlin UK, Amlin France excluding ACI France and Amlin Bermuda after the end of the underwriting year, illustrating how amounts estimated have changed from the first estimates made.
Tables for ACI, which include ACI France, have been constructed on an accident year basis.
All tables are prepared excluding the effect of intra-group reinsurance arrangements and are prepared on an undiscounted basis.
Non-sterling balances have been converted using 2010 exchange rates to aid comparability.
In part, this arises from the Groups reserving philosophy which aims to make the most recent years, with the greatest uncertainty of result, prudently reserved leaving a potential for subsequent release.
This differs from the 126.9 million stated in the claims development table above as the table above is on an underwriting year basis and the surpluses in this narrative are on an annually accounted basis.
The table above excludes any net aggregate reserve releases from 2002 and prior years.
Also the table above excludes ACI, which is accounted for on an accident year basis and for which net reserve releases are 43.4 million 2009: 16.4 million.
The ACI table also excludes any net aggregate reserve releases from 2002 and prior years.
Further details on these reserve releases and other aspects of the underwriting performance are included in the Performance Section of this Annual Report.
The Group has two main categories of assets: Underwriting assets.
These are premiums received and held to meet future insurance claims.
These are the capital required by the regulators to support the underwriting business plus working capital and surplus funds.
Apart from the outstanding borrowings, these assets do not have specific current liabilities attached to them.
Investment governance The Group manages its investments in accordance with investment frameworks that are set by the Boards of Amlin plc and its subsidiaries.
These frameworks determine investment governance and the investment risk tolerance.
They are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that the Boards fiduciary and regulatory responsibilities are being met.
Day to day management of the investments is delegated to the Investment Management Executive or members of the relevant subsidiarys executive, who are advised by the Chief Investment Officer.
The Investment Management Executive comprises the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Chief Investment Officer, and meets at least quarterly to consider whether the strategic asset allocation and tactical asset allocation ranges are appropriate to optimise investment returns within the risk tolerances set by the Boards.
Group Investments, led by the Chief Investment Officer, is responsible for tactical asset allocation and the appointment of external investment managers and custodians.
The Investment Advisory Panel, which consists of external investment professionals as well as members of the Investment Management Executive, meets quarterly.
The Panel provides challenges to the Groups view of future economic activity and asset class performance.
In addition, Group Compliance and external lawyers provide advice on investment regulations.
Risk tolerance Investment risk tolerances are set by the Board of Amlin Plc and its subsidiaries.
The investment process is driven from the risk tolerance which is determined by reference to factors such as the underwriting cycle and the requirements of the capital providers.
In a hard underwriting market capital preservation is paramount in order to support the insurance business and, therefore, the risk tolerance for the capital assets will be low.
Conversely, the risk tolerance for the underwriting assets under these circumstances will be relatively high due to the strong cash flow.
In a soft underwriting market the opposite applies.
Investment risk is independently monitored by the Risk Assessment and Monitoring department using a bespoke investment risk model.
The Head of Investment Risk reports regularly to the Investment Management Executive and to the Group Risk Committee.
Strategic asset allocation Each of the Groups principal subsidiaries has its own strategic asset allocations which are set according to its risk tolerance and liabilities.
1 The strategic asset allocation for capital assets are set by using a Value at Risk VaR model, to determine the optimum asset allocation for the current risk tolerance which ensures that appropriate solvency levels are maintained.
The expected timescale for future cash flows in each currency is calculated by the Group Actuarial team.
The average durations are the neutral position for the strategic asset allocation for the policyholders funds.
Tactical ranges around these strategic asset allocations provide flexibility to ensure that an appropriate risk reward balance is maintained in changing investment markets.
1 VaR is a statistical measure, which calculates the possible loss over a year, in normal market conditions.
As VaR estimates are based on historical market data this should not be viewed as an absolute gauge of the level of risk to the investments.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 117 Investment management The investments are run on a multi-asset, multi-manager basis.
Exposure to the asset classes is achieved using physical or derivative instruments and 2 may be managed by Group Investments or by outsourced managers, on a segregated, pooled or commingled basis.
The manager selection is based on a range of criteria that leads to the expectation that they will add value to the funds over the medium to long-term.
The managers have discretion to manage the funds on a day-to-day basis within investment guidelines or prospectuses applicable to their funds that ensure that they comply with the investment frameworks.
The managers performance, compliance and risk are monitored on an ongoing basis.
The managers as at 31 December 2010 were as follows: Manager Asset class Segregated funds Aberdeen Fund Management Ltd US Dollar bonds ING Real Estate Investment Management Property manager of managers UK Funds Ltd Insight Investment Management Global Ltd Sterling and Euro bonds Taube Hodson Stonex Partners LLP Global equities Townsend Group Europe Ltd Global property Veritas Asset Management UK Ltd Active global equity Wellington Management International Ltd US and Canadian Dollar bonds Pooled vehicles BlackRock Inc. Sterling, Euro and US Dollar liquidity funds BlueBay Asset Management Ltd Euro bonds BNP Paribas Investment Partners Sterling, Euro and US Dollar liquidity funds Goldman Sachs Asset Management International Sterling, Euro and US Dollar liquidity funds and LIBOR plus fund HSBC Asset Management US Dollar liquidity funds Insight Investment Management Global Ltd Sterling liquidity fund JP Morgan Asset Management US Dollar liquidity funds Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP Insurance linked securities PIMCO Sterling and US Dollar bonds Western Asset Management US Dollar liquidity fund Commingled funds Corporation of Lloyds Treasury Services US Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Australian Dollar, South African and Japanese bonds Union Bank of Switzerland Canadian and US Dollar liquid funds The funds under management with each manager are shown below: AG Black BNP Corporation Goldman Leadenhall Aberdeen Insurance Rock BlueBay Paribas CAAM of Lloyds Sachs HSBC ING Insight JP Morgan Capital PIMCO THS Townsend UBS Veritas Wellington Western Total m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m Total as at 31 December 2010 253.6 119.5 337.5 130.4 84.3 734.0 241.7 43.9 776.6 54.1 74.9 605.6 244.9 30.7 27.3 130.0 390.4 20.8 4,300.2 % 5.9 2.8 7.8 3.0 2.0 17.1 5.6 1.0 18.1 1.3 1.7 14.1 5.7 0.7 0.6 3.0 9.1 0.5 100.0 Total as at 31 December 2009 356.3 432.9 35.1 108.4 24.1 61.9 70.9 516.8 91.8 74.2 974.4 41.9 67.5 569.3 184.3 28.0 423.1 11.24,072.1 % 8.7 10.6 0.9 2.7 0.6 1.5 1.7 12.7 2.3 1.8 23.9 1.0 1.7 14.0 4.5 0.7 10.4 0.3 100.0 Note: The table above excludes the Groups directly held securities of 25.4 million comprising index linked bonds 20.3 million, insurance linked securities 3.3 million and other liquid investments 1.8 million.
2 Segregated funds are managed separately for the Group.
Pooled funds are collective investment vehicles in which the Group and other investors purchase units.
Commingled funds combine the assets of several clients.
118 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 3.
Risk disclosures continued Asset allocation The analysis in this section covers the investments for which the Group investment team has management responsibility.
The total value of investments in the following tables is reconciled to note 17 Financial assets and liabilities as follows: 2010 2009 m m Net financial investments per note 17 4,300.4 3,965.0 Assets shown separately in the notes to the accounts: Accrued income 14.8 31.1 Net unsettled payables for investments sold 5.1 5.2 Net assets of operations classified as held for sale 63.7 Deposits with credit institutions 35.7 55.0 Assets not analysed in the investment risk tables that follow: Liquid investments 10.3 12.8 Unlisted equities 9.0 8.9 Spread syndicates 4.3 Derivative hedging instruments 0.9 11.5 Total investments in asset allocation tables 4,325.6 4,072.1 The asset allocation of the Groups investments is set out below.
Pooled vehicles held at 31 December 2010 are bond funds of which 31.8% were government agency bonds, 36.0% were corporate bonds, 20.0% were mortgage backed and asset backed securities and the remaining 12.2% was held in cash.
The industry and geographical splits were as follows: 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Corporate Global Corporate Global bonds equities Total bonds equities Total Industry % % % % % % Oil & Gas 6.4 13.3 10.5 1.0 13.6 4.0 Basic materials 1.6 3.0 2.4 2.1 0.5 Industrials 6.5 10.0 8.6 5.4 10.9 6.7 Consumer goods and services 7.9 23.0 16.9 3.5 28.3 9.5 Healthcare 2.3 11.3 7.7 2.1 6.7 3.2 Miscellaneous 0.3 0.1 0.1 Government guaranteed 17.7 7.2 0.5 0.4 Mortgage backed securities 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 Telecommunications 2.9 15.3 10.2 1.8 12.4 4.3 Utilities 4.8 1.8 3.0 1.9 2.4 2.0 Financials 46.6 17.4 29.2 82.5 20.9 67.9 Technology 2.9 4.9 4.1 1.0 2.7 1.4 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Note: The table above excludes government bonds but includes 42.2 million 2009: 102.9 million of corporate bonds with government guarantees and 4.2 million of mortgage backed securities 2009: 12.2 million.
Valuation risk The Groups earnings are directly affected by changes in the valuations of the investments held in the portfolios.
These valuations vary according to the movements in underlying markets.
Factors affecting markets include changes in the economic and political environment, risk appetites, liquidity, interest rates and exchange rates.
These factors have an impact on the Groups investments and are taken into consideration when setting strategic and tactical asset allocations.
The price of holdings can also vary due to specific risks, such as the corporate strategy and companies balance sheet structure, which may impact the value of individual equity and corporate bond holdings.
This is mitigated by holding diversified portfolios.
Group assets are marked to market at bid price.
Prices are supplied by the global custodian whose pricing processes are covered by their published annual audits.
In accordance with their pricing policy, prices are sourced from three market recognised pricing vendor sources including: FT Interactive, Bloomberg and Reuters.
These pricing sources use closing trades, or where more appropriate in illiquid markets, pricing models.
These prices are reconciled to the fund managers records to check for reasonableness.
Mark to market valuations for over the counter derivatives are supplied by the custodian and checked to the relevant counterparty and Bloomberg.
Property funds are based on the most recent price available, which in some instances may be a quarter in arrears.
Where a property transaction has taken place the transaction price is used if it is the most recent price available.
As an additional check, where available, prices as at 31 December 2010 have been verified by the Group using available quoted prices on Bloomberg to verify that the prices used are a good estimation for fair value.
A month to month price check was completed to ensure that any stale prices, defined as prices which are one month old or more, are identified and investigated.
As at 31 December 2010 no stale prices were identified.
Further details on the fair value measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities are included in note 3.3.
120 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 3.
Risk disclosures continued Interest rate risk 3 Investors expectations for interest rates will impact bond yields.
Therefore, the value of the Groups bond holdings is subject to fluctuation as bond 4 yields rise and fall.
If yields fall the capital value will rise, and vice versa.
The sensitivity of the price of a bond is indicated by its duration.
The greater the duration of a security, the greater its possible price volatility.
Typically, the longer the maturity of a bond the greater its duration.
The maturity bands of the Groups bond holdings at year end are shown below.
The duration of underwriting assets is set with reference to the duration of the underlying liabilities.
It should be noted that the liabilities are not currently discounted and therefore their value is not impacted by interest rate movements.
Cash is raised, or the duration of the portfolio reduced, if it is believed that yields may rise and therefore capital values will fall.
The average durations of the bond and cash portfolios for the underwriting assets and associated insurance liabilities of Syndicate 2001, Amlin AG and ACI at year end were as follows: 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Underwriting assets Years Years Years Years Sterling 1.4 3.9 2.4 3.2 US Dollars 0.9 1.9 2.0 3.2 Euro 1.9 4.7 3.1 3.1 Canadian Dollars 2.5 3.8 2.2 3.8 Note: The table above includes pooled investments.
The asset durations above are calculated by the custodian.
Some differences occur between custodian durations and those reported by the fund managers due to the use of different prepayment assumptions.
Using fund manager calculations for 31 December 2010, the following asset year durations would result: sterling 0.2: US dollars 0.4: euro 1.6: and Canadian dollars 2.5.
As an additional check, where available, durations as at 31 December 2010 have been verified by the Group using Bloomberg data.
In all instances, the duration differences are within the ranges permitted by the investment guidelines.
Liabilities durations are calculated by the Group actuarial team.
Sensitivity analysis An indication of the potential sensitivity of the value of the bond and cash funds to changes in yield is shown below.
The calculation is based on the coupon rate, length of time to maturity and the market price.
It assumes coupon interest paid over the life of the security is reinvested at the same rate.
4 The duration is the weighted average maturity of the securitys cash flows, where the present values of the cash flows serve as the weights.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 121 Foreign exchange risk Underwriting assets are held in the base currencies of sterling, euros, US dollars and Canadian dollars, which represent the majority of the Groups liabilities by currency, thus limiting the underwriting foreign exchange rate risk.
However, foreign exchange exposure does arise when business is written in non-base currencies.
These transactions are converted into sterling, euro, US dollars and Canadian dollars depending where the business is written at the prevailing spot rate once the premium is received.
Consequently, there is exposure to currency movements between the exposure being written and the premium being converted.
Payments in non-base currencies are converted back into the policy currency at the time a claim is to be settled, therefore, the Group is exposed to exchange rate risk between the claim being made and the settlement being paid.
If a liability in a currency not listed above is considered to be sufficiently large following a major event, for example such as the 2010 New Zealand earthquake, that currency will be bought and held to cover the potential liability.
Further foreign exchange risk arises until non-sterling profits or losses are converted into sterling.
Foreign exchange risk is mitigated by converting the subsidiaries non-base currency profits into the base currency.
Given the inherent volatility in some business classes, a cautious approach is adopted on the speed and level of sales, but the Group seeks to extinguish all currency risk on earned profit during the second year after the commencement of each underwriting year.
This approach avoids the inherent dangers of lumpier sales.
It is not the intention to take speculative currency positions in order to make currency gains.
The Groups assets and liabilities by currency are presented in the table below.
These were transacted with banks with a short-term rating of at least A1 and are marked to market in investment valuations.
The Group is subject to foreign exchange risk as a result of the translation into sterling of Group companies balance sheets that have a non-sterling functional currency.
At 31 December 2010 the material balance sheets that have a non-sterling functional currency were Amlin AGs Bermuda branch with net assets of US$1,573.9 million and Amlin Corporate Insurance with net assets of 320.5 million 2009: US$1,580.6 million and 316.6 million.
Foreign exchange gains and losses on investments in overseas subsidiaries are taken directly to reserves in accordance with IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
The gain taken to reserves for the year ended 31 December 2010 was 17.6 million 2009: 92.8 million loss.
This reflects the movement in the US dollar rate from 1.61 at the start of the year to 1.56 at the balance sheet date and the movement in the euro rate from 1.13 at the start of the year to 1.17 at the balance sheet date.
In order to mitigate the impact of these currency fluctuations, the Group adopts a policy of hedging up to 50% of the net currency exposure resulting from these subsidiaries using options that were accounted for as hedges of net investment in overseas subsidiaries in line with the hedge accounting rules of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Consequently all realised and unrealised fair value gains and losses on the hedging instruments are taken to reserves to match the underlying movement in the valuation of the net investment in overseas subsidiaries, which includes applicable fair value adjustments and goodwill.
At the year end, hedges were in place for US$729.0 million and 204.0 million.
These were in the form of long sterling calls US dollar puts funded by short sterling puts US dollar calls and long sterling calls euro puts funded by short sterling puts euro calls.
The net valuation of these trades was a 1.4 million asset 2009: 7.0 million asset at the year end.
The net realised and unrealised loss from hedging options recognised in reserves was 4.2 million 2009: 29.3 million gain at the year end.
122 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 3.
Risk disclosures continued If the USD GBP exchange rate were to deteriorate improve by 10%, the movement in the net underwriting assets and liabilities and borrowings of the Group, excluding overseas subsidiaries, would result in a 13.7 million foreign exchange gain or 12.5 million loss in the Group income statement at 31 December 2010.
If the EUR GBP exchange rate were to deteriorate improve by 10%, the movement in the net underwriting assets and liabilities and borrowings of the Group, excluding overseas subsidiaries, would result in a 3.9 million foreign exchange gain or 3.5 million loss in the Group income statement at 31 December 2010.
In relation to translation of overseas subsidiaries, the same exchange rate improvement would result in a decrease of 127.3 million in exchange gain through consolidated reserves.
This decrease would be offset by a valuation gain of 36.0 million on the hedges in place.
The same exchange rate deterioration would result in an additional 128.2 million exchange gain through consolidated reserves.
This gain would be offset by a valuation loss of 34.4 million on the hedges in place.
Liquidity risk It is important that the Groups companies can pay their obligations as they fall due.
Levels of cash are therefore managed on a daily basis and buffers of liquid assets are held in excess of the immediate requirements.
This is to reduce the risk of being forced sellers of any of the Groups assets, which may result in realising prices below fair value, especially in periods of below normal investment market liquidity.
The Group funds its insurance liabilities with a portfolio of cash and debt securities exposed to market risk.
The following table indicates the contractual timing of cash flows arising from assets and liabilities for management of insurance contracts as of 31 December 2010: Contractual cash flows undiscounted 31 December 2010 No stated Carrying Financial assets maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount m m m m m m Shares and other variable yield securities 346.5 0.6 347.1 Debt and other fixed income securities 1,575.8 231.4 580.3 439.7 139.2 2,880.1 Property funds 60.2 60.2 Liquidity funds and other liquid investments 1,033.6 0.1 1,033.5 Derivative financial instruments, net 4.7 4.7 Total 3,020.8 231.9 580.3 439.7 139.2 4,325.6 Expected cash flows undiscounted No stated Carrying Insurance liabilities maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount m m m m m m Insurance contracts 671.1 557.4 198.4 137.7 1,564.6 Less assets arising from reinsurance contracts held 87.9 82.2 38.6 29.9 238.6 Total 58.2 475.2 159.8 107.8 1,326.0 Difference in contractual cash flows 3,020.8 351.3 105.1 279.9 31.4 2,999.6 The expected cash flows and carrying amount for the ACI insurance liabilities have not been included in the table above.
The carrying amount of these liabilities is 922.8 million.
Contractual cash flows undiscounted 31 December 2009 No stated Carrying Financial assets maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount m m m m m m Shares and other variable yield securities 153.1 14.2 167.3 Debt and other fixed income securities 1,139.8 310.4 711.5 771.6 523.1 3,221.8 Property funds 118.8 6.9 125.7 Liquidity funds and other liquid investments 555.9 1.4 557.3 Derivative financial instruments, net 11.5 11.5 Total 1,979.1 332.9 711.5 771.6 523.1 4,083.6 Expected cash flows undiscounted No stated Carrying Insurance liabilities maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount m m m m m m Insurance contracts 945.2 862.3 300.5 362.7 2,431.4 Less assets arising from reinsurance contracts held 159.6 139.5 58.0 70.3 421.1 Total 785.6 722.8 242.5 292.4 2,010.3 Difference in contractual cash flows 1,979.1 452.7 11.3 529.1 230.7 2,073.3 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 123 Liquidity, in the event of a major disaster, is tested regularly using internal cash flow forecasts and realistic disaster scenarios.
In addition pre-arranged revolving credit facilities are available from bank facilities note 27.
If a major insurance event occurs the investment strategy is reviewed to ensure that sufficient liquidity is also available in the assets.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the Group becomes exposed to loss if a specific counterparty fails to perform its contractual obligations in a timely manner impacting the Groups ability to meet its claims as they fall due.
Credit risk can also arise from underlying causes that have an impact upon the creditworthiness of all counterparties of a particular description or geographical location.
The Group is exposed to credit risk in its investment portfolio and with its premium and reinsurance receivables.
The table below shows the breakdown at 31 December 2010 of the exposure of the bond portfolio 5 and reinsurance receivables by credit quality.
The quality of these receivables is not graded, but based on historical experience there is limited default risk relating to these amounts.
Premium credit risk is managed through a number of controls that include broker approval, annual financial review and internal rating of brokers and regular monitoring of premium settlement performance.
The reinsurance receivables represent the amounts due at 31 December 2010 as well as amounts expected to be recovered on unpaid outstanding claims including IBNR in respect of earned and unearned risks.
Reinsurance receivables are stated net of provisions for bad and doubtful debts.
The credit risk in respect of reinsurance receivables is primarily managed by review and approval of reinsurance security by the Groups Reinsurance Security Committee, prior to the purchase of the reinsurance contract.
Guidelines are set, and monitored, that restrict the purchase of reinsurance security based on the Groups own ratings for each reinsurer and Standard & Poors ratings.
The Group holds collateral from certain reinsurers including those that are non-rated.
At 31 December 2010 the Group held collateral of 124.5 million as security against potential default by reinsurance counterparties 2009: 75.8 million.
Provisions are made against the amounts due from certain reinsurers, depending on the age of the debt and the current rating assigned to the reinsurer.
The impact on profit before tax of a 1% variation in the total reinsurance receivables would be 4.4 million 2009: 4.7 million.
The details of overdue reinsurance assets and insurance receivables are provided in notes 18 and 19.
Investments As well as failure of a counterparty to perform its contractual obligations, the price of corporate bond holdings will be affected by investors perception of a borrowers creditworthiness.
Credit risk within the investment funds is managed through: restrictions on the exposures by credit rating, as determined by the rating agencies, the credit research carried out by the investment managers and by holding diversified portfolios.
2.5 million of bonds held at 31 December 2010 were subject to downgrades during the year 2009: 26.5 million.
The Groups largest non-government counterparty as at 31 December 2010, excluding liquidity funds, was valued at 46.8 million.
5 Credit ratings on debt securities are State Street composite ratings based on Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch, depending on which agency agencies rate each bond.
124 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 3.
Risk disclosures continued The table below shows the credit rating of the Groups non-government bonds.
Non-government bonds Total 31 December 2010 m AAA AA A BBB Other Corporate Financials 107.2 8.9% 41.8% 48.9% 0.4% Corporate Other 84.4 17.9% 58.2% 23.9% Mortgage backed securities 153.4 90.3% 4.2% 0.4% 5.1% Asset backed securities 72.4 82.3% 10.4% 3.4% 1.0% 2.9% Insurance linked securities 55.5 100.0% Non-government bonds Total 31 December 2009 m AAA AA A BBB Other Corporate Financials 342.4 20.8% 30.5% 42.3% 4.1% 2.3% Corporate Other 89.9 29.3% 47.3% 23.4% Mortgage backed securities 148.4 89.8% 2.1% 1.2% 0.7% 6.2% Asset backed securities 76.0 85.9% 1.7% 4.1% 6.5% 1.8% Insurance linked securities 66.7 100.0% The table excludes 42.2 million 2009: 102.9 million of corporate bonds with explicit government guarantees.
The table includes 4.2 million 2009: 12.2 million of government agency mortgage backed securities.
3.3 Fair value methodology For financial instruments carried at fair value we have categorised the measurement basis into a fair value hierarchy as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
An active market is one in which transactions for the asset occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide readily and regularly available quoted prices.
Level 2 Inputs to a valuation model other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3 Inputs to a valuation model for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs and are significant to the overall fair value measurement.
Unobservable inputs may have been used to measure fair value to the extent that observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date or market information for the inputs to any valuation models.
As such, unobservable inputs reflect the assumptions it is considered that market participants would use in pricing the asset.
Shares and other variable yield securities Listed equities traded on a primary exchange are classified as Level 1.
Unlisted equities are valued using internal models, based principally upon managements assumptions, and are classified as Level 3.
Debt and other fixed income securities The fair value is based upon quotes from pricing services where available.
These pricing services derive prices based on an average of quotes provided by brokers.
Where multiple quotes are not available, the fair value is based upon evaluated pricing services, which typically use proprietary cash flow models and incorporate observable market inputs, such as credit spreads, benchmark quotes and other trade data.
If such services do not provide coverage of the asset, then fair value is determined manually using indicative broker quotes, which are corroborated by recent market transactions in similar or identical assets.
Where there is an active market for these assets and their fair value is the unadjusted quoted market price, these are classified as Level 1.
This is typically the case for government bonds.
Level 1 also includes exchange-traded bond funds, where fair value is based upon quoted market prices and the funds are actively traded.
Where the market is inactive or the price is adjusted, but significant market observable inputs have been used by the pricing sources, then these are considered to be Level 2 inputs.
This is typically the case for government agency debt, corporate debt, mortgage and asset backed securities and catastrophe bonds.
Certain assets, for which prices or other market inputs are unobservable, are classified as Level 3.
Property funds The fair value is based upon valuations provided by the fund manager.
The inputs into that valuation are primarily unobservable and, as such, these assets are classified as Level 3.
Participation in investment pools These are investment funds and the value is based upon unadjusted, quoted and executable prices provided by the fund manager.
These are classified as Level 1, except where there is evidence these are not being actively traded at the fund managers price.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 125 Derivatives Listed derivative contracts, such as futures, that are actively traded are valued using quoted prices from the relevant exchange and are classified as Level 1.
Over-the-counter currency options are valued by the counterparty using quantitative models with multiple market inputs.
The market inputs are observable and the valuation can be validated through external sources.
These are classified as Level 2.
Certain derivatives for which prices or other market inputs are unobservable, are classified as Level 3.
This is typically the case for catastrophe swaps.
Fair Value Hierarchy Fair Value Hierarchy Total Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2009 m m m m m m m m Assets Financial assets held for trading at fair value through income Shares and other variable yield securities 347.2 347.2 167.3 167.3 Debt and other fixed income securities 2,268.1 597.4 20.5 2,886.0 2,236.4 923.0 6.2 3,165.6 Property funds 60.2 60.2 125.7 125.7 Other financial assets at fair value through income Participation in investment pools 987.4 987.4 500.6 500.6 Deposits with credit institutions 18.3 18.3 6.7 6.7 Derivative instruments 0.5 9.7 10.2 0.2 24.2 24.4 Other 0.9 5.7 6.6 1.3 8.5 9.8 Available for sale financial assets Unlisted equities 9.0 9.0 8.9 8.9 Total assets 3,621.5 608.0 95.4 4,324.9 2,911.2 948.5 149.3 4,009.0 Liabilities Derivative instruments 0.4 8.1 1.2 9.7 0.3 12.6 12.9 Total liabilities 0.4 8.1 1.2 9.7 0.3 12.6 12.9 Net financial assets 3,621.1 599.9 94.2 4,315.2 2,910.9 935.9 149.3 3,996.1 Assets shown separately in the notes to the accounts Accrued income 14.8 31.1 Net financial investments note 17 4,300.4 3,965.0 The presentation of the fair value hierarchy in 2009 has been improved to enhance comparability with 2010.
This has resulted in a gross up of debt and other fixed income securities in the fair value hierarchy by 5.2 million for net unsettled payables for investments sold and purchased, which are already shown separately in the notes to the accounts.
This change in presentation has no impact on the primary financial statements.
The table below analyses the movements in assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 investments during the 2010 calendar year: Debt and other fixed income Derivative Unlisted securities Property funds instruments Other equities Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 6.2 125.7 8.5 8.9 149.3 Total net losses recognised in investment return in the income statement 0.1 2.2 2.3 Sales 5.3 93.7 2.7 101.7 Purchases 33.8 0.2 0.1 34.1 Assets of operation previously classified as held for sale 20.5 1.2 19.3 Transfers out of Level 3 0.6 0.6 Foreign exchange losses 0.2 3.4 0.3 3.9 At 31 December 2010 20.5 60.2 1.2 5.7 9.0 94.2 Total losses for the period included in income for assets and liabilities held at the end of the reporting period 0.5 126 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 3.
Risk disclosures continued There were no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year.
There were no significant transfers into or out of Level 3 during the year.
The table below analyses the movements in assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 investments during the 2009 calendar year: The table below analyses the movements in assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 investments during the 2009 calendar year: Debt and other fixed Debt and income Property Unlisted other fixed securities funds Other equities Total income Property Unlisted m m m m m securities funds Other equities Total m m m m m At 1 January 2009 0.2 83.5 8.6 92.3 Tot At 1 a lJanua net ga ry in 200 s lo 9s ses recognised in investment return in the income statement 0.2 0.5 83.5 17.5 8.6 92.3 17.0 Sales Total net gains losses recognised in investment return in the income statement 0 0.5.
9 AcquisiPurchases tions through business combination 0.7 5.1 60.18.1 8.
0.3 5 73.79.1 Fo Acquisi reign e tions through busi xchange gains lnes osss e com s bination 5.
9 At 3 Tota1 l l o Dec ssee s mb for th er 2 e009 period included in income for assets and liabilities held 6.2 125.7 8.5 8.9 149.3 at the end of the reporting period 16.9 Total losses for the period included in income for assets and liabilities held at the end of the reporting period 16.9 The majority of the Groups investments are valued based on quoted market information or other observable market data.
The Group holds 2.2% 2009: 3.7% of its assets at a fair value based on estimates and recorded as Level 3 investments.
Where estimates are used, these are based on a The majority of the Groups investments are valued based on quoted market information or other observable market data.
The Group holds 2.2% combination of independent third party evidence and internally developed models, calibrated to market observable data where possible.
While such 2009: 3.7% of its assets at a fair value based on estimates and recorded as Level 3 investments.
Where estimates are used, these are based on a valuations are sensitive to estimates, it is believed that changing one or more of the assumptions to reasonably possible alternative assumptions would combination of independent third party evidence and internally developed models, calibrated to market observable data where possible.
While such not change the fair value significantly.
valuations are sensitive to estimates, it is believed that changing one or more of the assumptions to reasonably possible alternative assumptions would not change the fair value significantly.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 127 4.
Segmental reporting Management has determined the Groups operating segments based on the management information reviewed by the Board of Directors of the Company that are used to make strategic decisions.
All operating segments used by management meet the definition of a reportable segment under International Financial Reporting Standard 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8.
The Group is organised into six operating segments.
Segments represent the distinct units through which the Group is organised and managed.
These segments are as follows: Amlin London, consisting of the Reinsurance, Property & Casualty, Marine and Aviation business units, underwritten via Syndicate 2001: Amlin UK, underwriting commercial insurance in the UK domestic market, also via Syndicate 2001: Amlin France, which writes a diverse book of specialty business in France, via Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Corporate Insurance: Amlin Bermuda, which writes predominantly property reinsurance business, including reinsurance ceded by Syndicate 2001.
Amlin Corporate Insurance, a leading provider of corporate property and casualty insurance in the Netherlands and Belgium: and Other corporate companies, comprising all other entities of the Group including holding companies.
Transactions between segments are carried out at arms length.
The revenue from external parties reported to the Board of Directors is measured in a manner consistent with that in the income statement.
Revenues are allocated based on the country in which the insurance contracts are issued.
Management considers its external customers to be the individual policyholders, and as such the Group is not reliant on any individual customer.
1 Other operating income is mainly commission receivable by service companies: 2 Agency expenses allocated to segments represent fees and commission payable to Amlin Underwriting Limited: 3 Finance costs are incurred in support of the entire business of the Group and have not been allocated to particular segments: 4 Amlin Re Europe was established in October 2010 to write Continental European non-life reinsurance business.
The business written by Amlin Re Europe in 2010 was not material to the Group and is reported within the Amlin Bermuda segment.
Amlin Re Europe generated gross written premium of 2.7 million and incurred expenses of 3.7 million in 2010.
128 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 4.
Segmental reporting continued Amlin Other Intra Assets and liabilities Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Corporate corporate group by business segment London UK France Bermuda Insurance companies items Total At 31 December 2010 m m m m m m m m Assets 1,821.3 495.5 37.4 1,681.6 1,720.3 3,526.0 3,167.5 6,114.6 Liabilities 1,591.9 493.1 36.6 604.3 1,440.7 2,096.6 1,878.5 4,384.7 Total net assets 229.4 2.4 0.8 1,077.3 279.6 1,429.4 1,289.0 1,729.9 Included in assets are the following: Amlin Other Intra Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Corporate corporate group London UK France Bermuda Insurance companies items Total At 31 December 2010 m m m m m m m m Investments in joint venture 2.2 2.2 Additions to non-current assets 0.2 9.8 13.5 23.5 The net assets of Amlin Bermuda are located in Bermuda, the US and Continental Europe.
The majority of the other assets of the Group are located in the UK, the US, Continental Europe and Canada.
The corresponding liabilities are also concentrated in these countries, but given the nature of the Groups business some of the liabilities will be located elsewhere in the world.
The Groups total non-current assets are 199.2 million of which 184.1 million is located in the UK and 15.1 million is located in foreign countries such as Bermuda, the US, Continental Europe and Canada.
Depreciation has been charged on property and equipment for the year amounting to 3.5 million 2009: 4.8 million of which 0.8 million 2009: 1.3 million has been charged to Amlin London, 0.8 million 2009: 0.8 million to Amlin UK, nil to Amlin France 2009: 0.2 million, 0.3 million to Amlin Bermuda 2009: 0.5 million, 0.9 million to Amlin Corporate Insurance 2009: 2.0 million and 0.7 million to Other corporate companies.
No impairment losses in respect of intangible assets have been recognised during the year.
Amlin Other Intra Income and expenses Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Corporate corporate group by business segment France London UK Bermuda Insurance companies items Total Year ended 31 December 2009 m m m m m m m m Analysed by geographic segment UK 120.9 164.5 185.6 157.1 313.9 US 434.7 0.1 161.7 596.5 Europe 88.8 7.4 28.9 19.9 83.8 228.8 Worldwide 63.5 15.5 141.4 220.4 Other 147.8 3.4 33.0 0.1 184.3 Gross written premium 855.7 190.9 28.9 400.2 225.2 0.1 157.1 1,543.9 Net written premium 567.7 157.8 25.2 396.4 187.8 12.3 1,322.6 Gross earned premium 788.7 167.6 22.6 374.7 321.8 0.6 134.4 1,541.6 Reinsurance premium ceded 251.2 26.2 3.0 3.5 55.5 115.1 224.3 Net earned premium 537.5 141.4 19.6 371.2 266.3 0.6 19.3 1,317.3 Insurance claims and claims settlement expenses 234.7 94.2 11.9 138.5 173.0 1.6 85.6 565.1 Reinsurance recoveries 81.4 19.5 2.1 0.1 17.9 0.2 84.5 0.9 Expenses for the acquisition of insurance contracts 156.9 27.6 5.4 58.7 41.0 0.3 22.5 267.4 Underwriting expenses 72.3 11.6 1.9 12.3 23.2 5.7 4.3 119.9 Profit attributable to underwriting 155.0 27.5 2.5 161.8 11.2 7.8 365.8 Investment return 40.6 22.9 0.4 72.3 53.8 17.5 207.5 1 Other operating income 0.1 0.1 1.9 0.8 7.2 10.1 2 Agency expenses 16.5 3.8 0.4 20.7 Other non-underwriting expenses 1.7 0.3 13.6 11.4 51.5 51.3 3 Finance costs 23.0 Profit before taxation 509.1 Combined ratio 71% 81% 87% 56% 96% 72% 1 Other operating income is mainly commission receivable by service companies: 2 Agency expenses allocated to segments represent fees and commission payable to Amlin Underwriting Limited: 3 Finance costs are incurred in support of the entire business of the Group and have not been allocated to particular segments.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 129 Amlin Other Intra Assets and liabilities Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Corporate corporate group by business segment London UK France Bermuda Insurance companies items Total At 31 December 2009 m m m m m m m m Assets 1,917.3 771.0 17.3 1,430.0 1,592.0 3,588.5 3,643.1 5,673.0 Liabilities 1,694.4 723.3 13.9 448.3 1,311.8 1,802.1 1,913.9 4,079.9 Total net assets 222.9 47.7 3.4 981.7 280.2 1,786.4 1,729.2 1,593.1 Included in assets are the following: Amlin Other Intra Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Corporate corporate group London UK France Bermuda Insurance companies items Total At 31 December 2009 m m m m m m m m Investments in joint venture 1.7 1.7 Additions to non-current assets 1.9 1.1 0.3 10.3 56.1 5.4 75.1 5.
Net earned premium 2010 2009 m m Insurance contracts premium Gross written premium 2,172.5 1,543.9 Change in unearned premium provision 170.1 2.3 Gross earned premium 2,002.4 1,541.6 Reinsurance premium Reinsurance premium payable 262.2 221.3 Change in unearned reinsurance premium provision 7.9 3.0 Reinsurance earned premium 254.3 224.3 Net earned premium 1,748.1 1,317.3 6.
Investment return 2010 2009 m m Investment income dividend income 5.8 5.2 interest income 54.0 84.7 cash and cash equivalents interest income 0.5 3.4 60.3 93.3 Net realised gains losses on assets held for trading equity securities 13.8 86.4 debt securities 64.0 72.8 property funds 22.9 6.0 on assets classified as other than trading derivative instruments 3.7 37.9 31.0 57.5 Net unrealised gains losses on assets held for trading equity securities 40.6 115.5 debt securities 18.4 39.3 property funds 20.1 10.9 on assets classified as other than trading derivative instruments 2.0 26.2 assets of operations previously classified as held for sale 6.1 1.6 liability to purchase non-controlling interest in Amlin France Holdings SAS 0.5 83.7 171.7 175.0 207.5 Improvements have been made to the disclosure of 2009 comparative values to unrealised gains recorded on assets of operations previously classified as held for sale.
130 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 7.
Insurance claims and loss adjustment expenses 2010 2009 m m Gross claims and loss adjustment expenses Current year insurance claims and loss adjustment expenses 1,313.6 781.6 Reduced costs for prior period insurance claims 145.0 216.5 1,168.6 565.1 Reinsurance claims Current year insurance claims and loss adjustment expenses recoverable from reinsurers 98.0 43.3 Additional reduced costs for prior period claims recoverable from reinsurers 11.5 42.4 109.5 0.9 Total net insurance claims and loss adjustment expenses 1,059.1 564.2 8.
Expenses for the acquisition of insurance contracts 2010 2009 m m Expenses for the acquisition of insurance contracts 378.7 276.6 Changes in deferred expenses for the acquisition of insurance contracts 39.6 9.2 339.1 267.4 9.
Other operating expenses 2010 2009 m m Expenses relating to underwriting Employee expenses, excluding employee incentives 77.5 44.7 Lloyds expenses 17.7 13.6 Other administrative expenses 46.8 34.3 Underwriting exchange losses note 15 5.8 27.3 147.8 119.9 Other expenses Employee expenses, excluding employee incentives 21.7 16.4 Employee incentives 27.7 36.6 Asset management fees 6.2 4.7 Other administrative expenses 17.5 15.1 ACI integration costs 16.6 11.2 Non-underwriting exchange losses gains note 15 6.5 32.7 96.2 51.3 244.0 171.2 Employee and other administrative expenses not relating to underwriting represent costs associated with the corporate activities of the Group.
Directors remuneration The aggregate remuneration of the directors of the Company, including amounts received from subsidiaries, was: 2010 2009 m m Emoluments of executive directors including payments made under long term incentive plans 4.1 5.0 Fees to non-executive directors 0.6 0.5 4.7 5.5 Pension contributions 0.2 0.2 4.9 5.7 Details of directors remuneration and pension benefits, including those of the highest paid director, are included in the Remuneration Report in the Governance section of the Annual Report.
Payments were made to both a defined benefit pension scheme and stakeholder defined contribution scheme for one 2009: one executive director and to stakeholder defined contribution schemes for two 2009: two other executive directors.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 131 11.
Employee benefit expenses The average number of persons employed by the Group, including individuals on fixed term contracts and directors, were: 2010 2009 Underwriting divisions Underwriting, claims and reinsurance 657 659 Administration and support 294 215 Central functions Operations 171 115 Finance 115 105 Internal audit and compliance 12 13 1,249 1,107 2010 2009 By location UK 791 681 Bermuda 33 28 Continental Europe excluding UK 417 391 Singapore 7 5 US 1 2 1,249 1,107 The aggregate payroll costs incurred by Group companies are analysed as follows: 2010 2009 m m Wages and salaries 93.6 58.8 Employee incentive and related social security costs 28.3 36.6 Share options granted to directors and employees note 24 3.1 2.4 Social security costs 11.1 7.4 Pension costs defined contribution schemes note 28 5.4 4.1 Pension costs defined benefit schemes note 28 1.9 2.3 143.4 111.6 12.
Finance costs 2010 2009 m m Letter of credit commission 2.1 1.5 Subordinated bond interest 21.7 20.7 Other similar charges 3.6 0.8 27.4 23.0 132 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 13.
Profit before tax Profit before tax is stated after charging crediting the following amounts: 2010 2009 m m Depreciation owned assets note 21 3.5 4.9 Amortisation note 22 5.5 4.3 Operating lease expenditure note 33 9.7 5.5 Foreign exchange losses gains note 15 12.3 5.4 Fees paid to the Groups auditors during the period of their appointment as auditors are set out below: 2009 000 2010 000 PwC Deloitte Amounts charged to the income statement Audit of the Groups annual accounts 266.5 120.4 32.9 Audit of subsidiary companies 730.7 626.9 14.6 Taxation advice 108.8 165.6 US market research 268.7 ACI acquisition advisory fees 1,346.5 Other non-statutory fees 100.4 16.5 1,475.1 929.4 1,394.0 14.
Tax 2010 2009 m m Current tax current year Corporation tax 81.0 94.8 Foreign tax suffered 3.6 0.6 Double tax relief 3.0 81.6 94.2 Current tax adjustments in respect of previous years Corporation tax 10.9 1.0 Deferred tax current year Movement for the year 38.8 38.2 Deferred tax adjustments in respect of previous years Movement for the year 7.9 0.7 Effect of reduced tax rate on opening net liability 2.5 Taxes on income 37.3 54.3 In addition to the above, tax of 4.6 million credit 2009: 15.0 million on taxable items taken through other comprehensive income and deferred tax of 0.4 million charge 2009: 0.5 million on taxable items taken through equity have been taken directly to reserves as follows: 2010 2009 m m Current tax on losses on revaluation of hedge instruments 5.3 12.7 Current tax on foreign exchange losses gains on translation of overseas operations 2.1 3.1 Current tax on taxable foreign exchange gains on translation of intangibles arising from investments in overseas operations 0.4 Deferred tax on defined benefit pension fund actuarial gains losses 2.8 5.8 Taxes credited to other comprehensive income 4.6 15.0 Deferred tax on employee share option scheme 0.4 0.5 Taxes charged to equity 0.4 0.5 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 133 Underwriting profits and losses are recognised in the technical account on an annual accounting basis, recognising the results in the period in which they are earned.
UK corporation tax on Syndicate 2001s underwriting result is charged in the period in which the underwriting profits are actually paid by the Syndicate to the corporate member subsidiary.
Deferred tax is provided on the underwriting result with reference to the forecast ultimate result of each of the years of account.
Where this is a taxable loss, deferred tax is only provided on the movement on that year of account to the extent that forecasts show that the taxable loss will be utilised in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax before netting off has been provided on the underwriting result for this accounting period of 68.9 million 2009: 96.5 million.
Reconciliation of tax expense The UK standard rate of corporation tax is 28.0% 2009: 28.0%, whereas the tax charged for the year ended 31 December 2010 as a percentage of profit before tax is 14.4% 2009: 10.7%.
The reasons for this difference are explained below: 2010 2010 2009 2009 m % m % Profit before tax 259.2 509.1 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 72.6 28.0 142.5 28.0 Non-deductible or non-taxable items 0.7 0.2 2.4 0.5 Tax rate differences on overseas subsidiaries 29.7 11.5 69.7 13.7 Over provision in respect of prior periods 3.0 1.2 Irrecoverable overseas tax 0.6 0.3 Release of deferred tax provision on prior year Bermudian profits 16.1 3.1 Deferred tax rate change 2.5 1.0 Taxes on income 37.3 14.4 54.3 10.7 The Groups Bermudian reinsurance subsidiary, Amlin Bermuda Ltd, was re-domiciled to Switzerland during the year.
The company was subsequently re-named Amlin AG, with a new division, Amlin Re Europe, operating in Switzerland and the Bermuda business operating as a Bermudian branch.
The Groups tax provision for 2010 has been prepared on the basis that both Amlin AG and Amlin Bermuda Holdings Ltd are non-UK resident for UK corporation tax purposes and are exempt from the UK controlled foreign company regime.
The corporation tax rate for profits earned by Amlin Bermuda Holdings Ltd and the Bermudian branch of Amlin AG is currently nil% 2009: nil%.
The combined rate which is applicable to profits arising for the Zurich operation only, of Swiss cantonal and federal taxes is 21.2%.
Deferred tax has been provided for at the local tax rate in force when the temporary differences are expected to reverse.
The tax rates used are: UK 27% 2009: 28%, with the exception of temporary differences expected to reverse in 2011 for which a tax rate of 27.25% has been applied: Netherlands 25.0% 2009: 25.5% : Bermuda nil% 2009: nil% : and Switzerland 21.2% 2009: n a.
The UK tax rate applied for deferred tax purposes 27.0% was enacted in July 2010.
Further reductions in the UK corporation tax rate have been announced, which will ultimately reduce the corporation tax rate to 24.0% on 1 April 2014.
However, these subsequent reductions have not yet been enacted or substantively enacted and therefore the rate at which deferred tax is provided remains 27.0%.
An estimate of the impact of the future reduction in the UK corporation tax rate can be found in note 39 Subsequent events.
The Group is subject to US tax on US underwriting profits.
No provision has been made in respect of such tax arising in 2010 2009: nil as any net provision is likely to be immaterial.
Deferred tax The deferred tax asset is attributable to temporary differences arising on the following: Provisions for Other Pension Other timing losses provisions provisions differences Total m m m m m At 1 January 2009 1.0 4.7 1.8 3.6 11.1 Opening balance in acquisition 17.1 17.1 Movements in the year 0.8 1.0 4.7 4.0 0.9 At 31 December 2009 0.2 5.7 6.5 16.7 29.1 Movements in the year 13.6 4.8 6.5 16.7 14.4 At 31 December 2010 13.8 0.9 14.7 134 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 14.
Tax continued The deferred tax liability is attributable to temporary differences arising on the following: Underwriting Unrealised Syndicate Overseas Other timing results capital gains capacity earnings differences Intangibles Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2009 122.9 5.3 16.1 0.3 144.6 Opening balances on acquisition 4.4 2.0 16.6 23.0 Movements in the year 26.4 0.8 16.1 1.6 0.7 42.6 At 31 December 2009 96.5 4.4 6.1 0.7 17.3 125.0 Movements in the year 53.0 9.3 0.8 8.3 2.6 37.2 At 31 December 2010 43.5 13.7 6.9 9.0 14.7 87.8 Deferred tax of 26.6 million 2009: 20.9 million is expected to be settled after more than 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Net foreign exchange losses gains The Group recognised net foreign exchange losses of 12.3 million 2009: 5.4 million net gain in the income statement during the year.
The Group writes business in many currencies and although a large proportion of the Groups balance sheet assets and liabilities are matched, minimising the effect of movements in foreign exchange rates on the Groups result, it is not possible, or practical, to match exactly all assets and liabilities in currency.
Accounting standards also require that certain classes of assets and liabilities be translated at different rates see foreign currency translation accounting policy.
Included within the Groups foreign exchange losses gains in the income statement are: 2010 2009 m m Net losses gains on underwriting transactions and translation of underwriting assets and liabilities at closing rates 3.2 1.7 Losses arising from the treatment of net non-monetary assets and liabilities at historical average rates 2.6 29.0 Underwriting exchange losses 5.8 27.3 Losses gains on long-term US dollar borrowings 2.0 6.4 Gains on sterling capital assets held in Amlin Bermuda 25.2 Net losses gains on non-underwriting transactions and translation of non-underwriting assets and liabilities at closing rates 4.5 1.1 Non-underwriting exchange losses gains 6.5 32.7 12.3 5.4 In addition, the following exchange movements have been charged directly to other comprehensive income: 2010 2009 m m Gains losses on translation of overseas subsidiaries: Amlin Bermuda 27.8 98.5 Amlin Singapore 0.2 Amlin France 0.2 Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. 7.7 7.3 20.5 91.2 Losses gains on derivative instruments that hedge investments in overseas operations 4.2 29.3 Losses on translation of intangibles arising from investments in overseas operations 2.9 1.6 13.4 63.5 16.
Cash and cash equivalents 2010 2009 m m Cash and cash in hand 66.9 68.9 Short-term deposits 14.6 1.4 81.5 70.3 Cash and cash equivalents represent cash at bank and in hand and short-term bank deposits which can be recalled within 24 hours.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 135 17.
Financial assets and financial liabilities At valuation At valuation At cost At cost 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Assets Financial assets held for trading at fair value through income Shares and other variable yield securities 347.1 167.3 306.5 161.8 Debt and other fixed income securities 2,876.9 3,127.7 2,811.2 3,162.7 Property funds 60.2 125.7 64.7 147.2 Other financial assets at fair value through income Participation in investment pools 984.7 508.2 976.0 499.1 Deposits with credit institutions 9.8 6.4 9.5 6.4 Derivative instruments 14.4 24.4 5.2 4.5 Other 8.0 9.3 7.9 9.2 Available for sale financial assets Unlisted equities 9.0 8.9 9.0 8.9 Total financial assets 4,310.1 3,977.9 4,190.0 3,999.8 Liabilities Derivative instruments 9.7 12.9 1.3 Total financial liabilities 9.7 12.9 1.3 Net financial assets 4,300.4 3,965.0 4,188.7 3,999.8 Listed investments included above are as follows: Shares and other variable yield securities 347.1 167.3 306.5 161.8 Debt and other fixed income securities 2,824.5 3,127.7 2,758.9 3,162.7 3,171.6 3,295.0 3,065.4 3,324.5 Debt and other fixed income securities include pooled exchange-traded funds, investing in bonds.
The valuation of these funds is 1,523.5 million 2009: 1,076.1 million.
Participation in investment pools includes units held in money market funds.
The reconciliation of opening and closing financial investments is as follows: 2010 2009 m m At 1 January 3,965.0 2,868.1 Exchange losses 47.0 128.0 Net purchases 214.1 13.1 Realised gains losses on disposals 31.0 57.5 Unrealised investment gains 77.1 170.1 Acquisitions through business combination 1,069.9 Assets of operation previously classified as held for sale 64.4 Losses gains on derivative hedging instruments realised and unrealised taken through other comprehensive income 4.2 29.3 At 31 December 4,300.4 3,965.0 Improvements have been made to the disclosure of 2009 comparative values for unrealised gains recorded on assets of operation previously classified as held for sale.
136 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 18.
Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 2010 2009 Insurance Insurance contract Reinsurance Net contract Reinsurance Net liabilities share liabilities liabilities share liabilities Claims reserves m m m m m m At 1 January 2,431.4 421.1 2,010.3 1,692.8 360.8 1,332.0 Claims incurred during the current year 1,313.6 98.0 1,215.6 781.6 43.3 738.3 Movements arising from prior year claims 145.0 11.5 156.5 216.5 42.4 174.1 Claims paid during the year 977.3 147.0 830.3 664.1 56.7 607.4 Acquisitions through business combination 943.6 160.0 783.6 Novation of liability 2.0 0.4 1.6 42.1 42.1 Accretion of fair value adjustment 4.0 0.7 3.3 0.7 0.1 0.6 Other movements 3.2 3.2 Exchange adjustments 7.2 4.0 11.2 64.6 1.9 62.7 At 31 December 2,631.9 383.1 2,248.8 2,431.4 421.1 2,010.3 Further information on the calculation of claims reserves and the risks associated with them is provided in the risk disclosures in note 3.
Claims reserves are further analysed between notified outstanding claims and incurred but not reported claims below: 2010 2009 m m Notified outstanding claims 1,892.4 1,722.7 Claims incurred but not reported 739.5 708.7 Insurance contracts claims reserve 2,631.9 2,431.4 The current and non-current portions for claims reserves are expected to be as follows: 2010 2009 Insurance Insurance contract Reinsurance Net contract Reinsurance Net liabilities share liabilities liabilities share liabilities Claims reserves m m m m m m Current portion 1,047.2 129.6 917.6 857.6 151.7 705.9 Non-current portion 1,584.7 253.5 1,331.2 1,573.8 269.4 1,304.4 2,631.9 383.1 2,248.8 2,431.4 421.1 2,010.3 2010 2009 Insurance Insurance contract Reinsurance Net contract Reinsurance Net liabilities share liabilities liabilities share liabilities Unearned premium reserves m m m m m m At 1 January 744.8 52.8 692.0 549.4 31.0 518.4 Premiums written during the year 2,172.5 262.2 1,910.3 1,543.9 221.3 1,322.6 Premiums earned during the year 2,002.4 254.3 1,748.1 1,541.6 224.3 1,317.3 Acquisition through business combinations 203.1 28.5 174.6 Other movements 4.0 4.0 Exchange adjustments 0.5 1.4 0.9 10.0 3.7 6.3 At 31 December 914.4 55.3 859.1 744.8 52.8 692.0 The current and non-current portions for unearned premium reserves are expected to be as follows: 2010 2009 Insurance Insurance contract Reinsurance Net contract Reinsurance Net liabilities share liabilities liabilities share liabilities Unearned premium reserves m m m m m m Current portion 865.3 45.5 819.8 717.4 43.2 674.2 Non-current portion 49.1 9.8 39.3 27.4 9.6 17.8 914.4 55.3 859.1 744.8 52.8 692.0 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 137 In connection with the purchase accounting for the acquisition of ACI, the Group adjusted claims reserves and related reinsurance recoveries to fair value on acquisition.
The reduction to the original carrying value of 39.1 million and 6.4 million to claims reserves and reinsurance recoveries respectively is being recognised through a charge to the income statement over the period the claims are settled.
This net charge is 3.3 million in 2010 2009: net charge 0.6 million.
The fair value was based on the present value of the expected cash flows with consideration for the uncertainty inherent in both the timing of, and the ultimate amount of, future payments for losses and receipts of amounts recoverable from reinsurers.
The nominal amounts were discounted to their present value using an applicable risk-free discount rate.
The total reinsurers share of claims reserves and unearned premium reserves is set out in the table below: 2010 2009 m m Reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 454.4 481.5 Less provision for impairment of receivables from reinsurers 16.0 7.6 Reinsurance assets 438.4 473.9 The Group assesses its reinsurance assets for impairment on a quarterly basis by reviewing counterparty payment history and credit grades provided by rating agencies.
The credit ratings of the Groups reinsurance assets are shown in note 3.2.
As at 31 December 2010 reinsurance assets at a nominal value of 4.0 million 2009: 3.1 million were greater than 3 months overdue and provided for to the value of 4.0 million 2009: 3.1 million.
The Group holds collateral of 124.5 million 2009: 75.8 million in relation to reinsurance assets.
The Group has recognised a total impairment loss of 20.0 million 2009: 25.6 million on reinsurance assets and insurance receivables.
The carrying amounts disclosed are reasonably approximate to the fair value at the reporting date.
Loans and receivables, including insurance and reinsurance receivables 2010 2009 m m Receivables arising from insurance and reinsurance contracts 820.1 687.4 Less provision for impairment of receivables from contract holders and agents 24.5 21.5 Insurance and reinsurance receivables 795.6 665.9 Other receivables 39.4 45.4 Prepayments and other accrued income 48.7 18.9 Other loans and receivables 88.1 64.3 883.7 730.2 The current and non-current portions are expected to be as follows: 2010 2009 m m Current portion 868.6 703.5 Non-current portion 15.1 26.7 883.7 730.2 Receivables arising from reinsurance contracts are comprised principally of amounts recoverable from reinsurers in respect of paid claims and premium receivables on inward reinsurance business, including reinstatement premium.
The Group assesses its insurance and reinsurance receivables for impairment on a quarterly basis by reviewing counterparty payment history.
As of 31 December 2010 insurance and reinsurance receivables at a nominal value of 117.2 million 2009: 108.5 million were greater than 3 months overdue and provided for on the basis of credit rating to the value of 24.2 million 2009: 5.5 million.
The carrying amounts disclosed above are reasonably approximate to the fair value at the reporting date.
The ageing analysis of insurance and reinsurance receivables overdue, before impairment provision, is as follows: 2010 2009 m m 3 to 6 months 18.9 22.0 6 to 9 months 14.0 3.6 Greater than 9 months 84.3 82.9 117.2 108.5 Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V Netherlands business does not currently produce an ageing report for insurance receivables due to the interaction of local market practice and the offices internal systems.
The total level of insurance receivables in the Netherlands is 68.1 million 2009: 65.0 million.
Other receivables comprise principally of amounts receivable from investment managers for financial investments sold, input VAT and other sundry debtors.
138 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 20.
Deferred acquisition costs The reconciliation of opening and closing deferred acquisition costs is as follows: m At 1 January 2009 114.0 Expense deferred 180.7 Amortisation 171.5 Acquisition through business combination 21.6 Exchange adjustment 1.0 At 31 December 2009 145.8 Expense deferred 274.5 Amortisation 234.9 Exchange adjustment 0.4 At 31 December 2010 185.8 The current and non-current portions are expected to be as follows: 2010 2009 m m Current portion 176.0 136.2 Non-current portion 9.8 9.6 185.8 145.8 21.
Property and equipment Fixtures, fittings and Freehold land Computer leasehold and buildings Motor vehicles equipment improvements Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 4.1 0.2 26.8 9.9 41.0 Foreign exchange losses 0.2 0.2 Additions 4.7 1.5 6.2 Disposals 0.4 0.1 0.5 At 31 December 2010 4.1 0.2 30.9 11.3 46.5 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2010 0.3 0.1 22.7 8.0 31.1 Foreign exchange gains 0.2 0.2 Charge for the year 2.8 0.7 3.5 Disposals 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2010 0.3 0.1 24.9 8.7 34.0 Net book value At 31 December 2010 3.8 0.1 6.0 2.6 12.5 At 1 January 2010 3.8 0.1 4.1 1.9 9.9 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 139 Fixtures, fittings and Freehold land Computer leasehold and buildings Motor vehicles equipment improvements Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2009 4.1 0.2 23.6 6.8 34.7 Foreign exchange losses 0.1 0.1 Additions 2.9 3.1 6.0 Acquisitions through business combination 0.3 0.1 0.4 At 31 December 2009 4.1 0.2 26.8 9.9 41.0 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2009 0.2 0.1 19.8 6.2 26.3 Foreign exchange gains 0.1 0.1 Charge for the year 0.1 3.0 1.8 4.9 At 31 December 2009 0.3 0.1 22.7 8.0 31.1 Net book value At 31 December 2009 3.8 0.1 4.1 1.9 9.9 At 1 January 2009 3.9 0.1 3.8 0.6 8.4 There were no assets held under finance lease and hire purchase contracts at 31 December 2010 2009: nil.
Intangible assets Broker and Syndicate customer Computer Other Goodwill participations relationships software intangibles Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 64.3 63.2 39.3 2.5 169.3 Additions 17.4 17.4 Acquisition through business combination 13.0 13.0 Adjustments to prior acquisitions 0.4 0.4 Foreign exchange losses 1.7 1.2 2.9 At 31 December 2010 62.2 63.2 51.1 17.4 2.5 196.4 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2010 0.4 5.4 0.7 6.5 Charge for the year 5.0 0.5 5.5 Foreign exchange gains 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2010 0.4 10.3 1.2 11.9 Net book value At 31 December 2010 61.8 63.2 40.8 17.4 1.3 184.5 At 1 January 2010 63.9 63.2 33.9 1.8 162.8 140 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 22.
Intangible assets continued Broker and Syndicate customer Computer Other Goodwill participations relationships software intangibles Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2009 34.3 63.2 12.4 2.5 112.4 Acquisition through business combination 32.6 26.8 59.4 Adjustments to prior acquisitions 0.9 0.9 Foreign exchange losses 1.7 0.1 1.6 At 31 December 2009 64.3 63.2 39.3 2.5 169.3 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2009 0.4 1.6 0.2 2.2 Charge for the year 3.8 0.5 4.3 At 31 December 2009 0.4 5.4 0.7 6.5 Net book value At 31 December 2009 63.9 63.2 33.9 1.8 162.8 At 1 January 2009 33.9 63.2 10.8 2.3 110.2 Syndicate participations represent the ongoing rights to trade on Syndicate 2001 within the Lloyds insurance market.
Goodwill and the asset in relation to Syndicate participations are considered to have an indefinite life.
As such, they are tested for impairment annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Groups cash generating units CGUs identified according to country of operation and business segment.
The intangible asset relating to the syndicate participations supports the underwriting in Amlin London, Amlin UK and Amlin France.
Given the nature of the participation rights, it is not practical to split this asset between the three CGUs.
Accordingly, impairment testing has been performed based on aggregate Syndicate 2001 profit forecasts.
The analysis of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets by CGU is shown below: 2010 2009 m m Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Corporate Amlin Amlin Corporate London France Insurance Total London France Insurance Total Goodwill 7.6 25.0 29.2 61.8 8.2 28.1 27.6 63.9 Syndicate participations 63.2 63.2 Total 7.6 25.0 29.2 125.0 8.2 28.1 27.6 127.1 When testing for impairment, the recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value in use calculations.
Value in use is calculated for each CGU using a discounted cash flow projection based on business plans and growth assumptions approved by management and discounted at an appropriate discount rate.
Key assumptions used in the calculation are: Budgeted operating profit for an initial 5 year period for Amlin London and a 4 year period for Amlin France and Amlin Corporate Insurance represents the operating profit in the business plans.
As such this reflects the best estimate of future profits based on historical trends and expected growth rates.
The most significant assumptions used to derive the operating profit include our assessment of the market cycle, retention rates, claims inflation, outwards reinsurance expenditure and long-term investment return.
In order to extrapolate future cash flows beyond the business plan period, a long-term average growth rate of 2.5% has been assumed for all CGUs.
A risk adjusted post-tax discount rate of 8.0%, has been applied to each CGUs cash flow projection.
The results of this exercise indicate that the recoverable amount exceeds in each case the intangibles carrying value and would not be sensitive to reasonable possible changes in assumptions.
Computer software represents the costs that the Group has incurred on internally developed software relating to a new underwriting platform for Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. This software will be amortised over ten years from the date that it is completed.
The Group acquired the trade and assets of a United Kingdom insolvency practitioners insurance business from Lockton, Inc during the year and capitalised the existing customer relationships of the business see note 38.
This intangible is being amortised over 13 years.
Broker and customer relationship intangibles also include those acquired in relation to Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. and Amlin France Holdings SAS, the net book value being 24.0 million 2009: 26.8 million and 4.7 million 2009: 6.4 million respectively.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 141 23.
Share capital Authorised share capital 2010 2010 2009 2009 Number m Number m Allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary shares At 1 January issued ordinary shares of 28.125p each 2009: 28.125p 502,076,006 141.2 478,573,439 134.6 Shares issued to fund the acquisition of Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. 23,502,567 6.6 At 31 December issued ordinary shares of 28.125p each 2009: 28.125p 502,076,006 141.2 502,076,006 141.2 Issued redeemable non-cumulative preference shares B shares At 1 January issued B shares of 22.4p each 5,335,475 1.2 B shares redemption 5,335,475 1.2 At 31 December issued B shares of 22.4p each The Company transferred 1,288,723 shares out of treasury shares at a cost of 3.3 million 2009: 1,599,228 shares at a cost of 4.1 million.
The shares have been transferred to meet exercises of employee share options, leaving 5,875,701 shares in Treasury at 31 December 2010 2009: 7,164,424 shares.
On 3 June 2009, the Group placed 23,502,567 new ordinary shares with institutional investors representing approximately 5% of Amlins issued ordinary share capital, in order to finance part of the consideration for acquiring ACI.
The placing proceeds were 75.0 million net of expenses.
The B shares detailed above were issued on 17 December 2007 to existing shareholders on the basis of one B share for each ordinary share held on 14 December 2007.
Each such B share was redeemable by the shareholder at 22.4 pence per share at various dates up to August 2009 at which time the balance was then mandatorily redeemed.
Share options and share-based incentive awards During the year ended 31 December 2010 the Group operated a number of long-term employee incentive schemes.
The total cost recognised in the income statement under International Financial Reporting Standard 2 Share-based payments IFRS 2 for the Groups share-based payment arrangements is shown below: 2010 2009 m m Equity settled schemes 3.1 2.4 Cash settled scheme Capital Builder Plan 5.9 Total expense arising from share-based payments 3.1 8.3 i Equity settled schemes Details of Amlins Executive Share Option Schemes ESOS, Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, Performance Share Plan PSP, Share Incentive Plan SIP and Sharesave plans are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report in the Governance section.
At 31 December 2010 the total options over new or treasury shares outstanding, or committed to be met by the Groups Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT, under these schemes are summarised below: a Amlin Executive Share Option Schemes ESOS ESOS options are potentially exercisable for seven years following their initial vesting date.
The changes to new or treasury shares under option pursuant to the ESOS during the year were as follows: Weighted average Weighted average exercise price per exercise price per Number of shares share Number of shares share 2010 pence 2009 pence At 1 January 2,090,148 234.62 3,544,973 224.94 Exercised during the year 918,746 229.08 1,425,455 212.14 Lapsed during the year 16,959 293.00 29,370 139.51 Total shares outstanding and exercisable at 31 December 1,154,443 238.18 2,090,148 234.62 142 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 24.
Share options and share-based incentive awards continued Details of the outstanding ESOS options are as follows: Number of Exercise price per Weighted average Number of Exercise price per Weighted average outstanding shares share remaining outstanding shares share remaining contractual under option pence contractual life under option pence life 2010 2010 years 2009 2009 years 2001 Executive grant 7,770 108.99 0.30 7,770 108.09 1.30 2002 Executive grant 38,455 76.33 1.30 54,155 76.33 2.30 2003 Executive grant 43,463 110.82 2.30 79,994 110.82 3.30 2004 Executive grant 149,117 152.85 3.25 211,252 152.85 4.25 2005 Executive grant 188,230 161.77 4.25 492,747 161.77 5.25 2006 Executive grant 727,408 293.00 5.25 1,244,230 293.00 6.25 The weighted average share price at date of exercise during the year was 413.82 pence.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the ESOS options outstanding at 31 December 2010 was 4.6 years 2009: 5.6 years.
b Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP awards are subject to an arrangement whereby the Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT was committed at the year end to provide up to 2,582,748 shares pursuant to options, normally exercisable from three years after grant.
During 2010, the period for options exercise following such three years was extended from 6 to 30 months.
In addition, conditional share awards have been made over 142,064 and 87,055 shares to participants in the Netherlands and Belgium, and France, respectively.
Such awards may vest from three years after the award date.
The following reconciliation shows the changes made to the LTIP options and share awards during the year: Number of shares Number of shares under option or under option or conditional award conditional award 2010 2009 At 1 January 2,125,719 1,605,360 Granted awarded during the year 1,274,498 747,533 Exercised during the year 481,944 77,970 Lapsed during the year 30,296 149,204 Total outstanding shares at 31 December 2,887,977 2,125,719 Total exercisable shares at 31 December The exercise price for each option exercise is 1 in total per exercise and the cost of acquiring shares through a conditional share award vesting is nil.
Details of the outstanding LTIP options and share awards are as follows: Number of shares Weighted average Number of shares Weighted average under option or remaining under option or remaining contractual conditional award contractual life conditional award life 2010 years 2009 years 2007 LTIP grant 474,525 0.80 2008 LTIP grant 857,065 2.80 881,930 1.80 2009 LTIP grant 683,625 3.80 693,154 2.80 2010 LTIP grant 1,042,058 4.80 2008 French LTIP grant 54,608 0.90 54,608 1.90 2009 French LTIP grant 21,502 1.20 21,502 2.20 2010 French LTIP grant 87,055 2.20 2010 ACI LTIP grant 142,064 2.20 The weighted average share price at date of exercise during the year was 417.88 pence.
The weighted average fair value i. e. share price at date of grant for awards granted during 2010 was 413.60 pence.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the LTIP options awards outstanding at 31 December 2010 was 3.63 years 2009: 1.91 years, the material increase being due to the extension of exercise periods mentioned above.
c Performance Share Plan PSP The PSP awards are subject to an arrangement whereby the ESOT was committed at the year end to provide up to 1,966,608 shares pursuant to options, normally exercisable from five years after grant.
During 2010, the period of exercise following such five years was extended from 6 to 30 months.
In addition, conditional share awards have been made over 101,152 and 46,515 shares to participants in the Netherlands and Belgium, and in France, respectively.
Such awards may vest from five years after the award date.
The following reconciliation shows the changes made to the PSP options and share awards during the year: Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 143 Number of shares Number of shares under option or under option or conditional award conditional award 2010 2009 At 1 January 2,053,682 2,154,676 Granted awarded during the year 661,558 435,181 Exercised during the year 498,300 499,366 Lapsed during the year 36,809 Total outstanding shares at 31 December 2,216,940 2,053,682 Total exercisable shares at 31 December The exercise price for each option exercise is 1 in total per exercise and the cost of acquiring shares through a conditional share vesting is nil.
Details of the outstanding PSP options and share awards are as follows: Number of shares Weighted average Number of shares Weighted average under option or remaining under option or remaining contractual conditional award contractual life conditional award life 2010 years 2009 years 2005 PSP grant 488,918 0.80 2006 PSP grant 316,997 2.80 322,649 1.80 2007 PSP grant 350,256 3.80 353,986 2.80 2008 PSP grant 462,988 4.80 462,988 3.80 2009 PSP grant 322,476 5.80 322,476 4.80 2010 PSP grant 513,891 6.80 2009 French PSP grant 26,969 3.50 26,969 4.50 2010 French PSP grant 46,515 4.20 2009 ACI PSP grant 75,696 3.66 75,696 4.66 2010 ACI PSP grant 101,152 4.20 The weighted average share price at date of exercise during the year was 398.78 pence.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the PSP options awards outstanding at 31 December 2010 was 4.87 years 2009: 2.80 years, the material increase being due to the extension of exercise periods mentioned above.
d Share Incentive Plan SIP SIP shares are awards made on an all employee basis, including to employees in France, the Netherlands and Belgium.
Under the main SIP, the shares are held in trust by Yorkshire Building Society and usually sourced from market purchases.
For continental European staff, awards were made under appropriately adapted local versions of the SIP involving shares being provided on vesting from new or treasury shares.
The following reconciliation sets out the changes impacting the shares issued under the SIP during the year: Number of shares Number of shares 2010 2009 At 1 January 1,407,867 1,129,334 Awarded during the year 823,753 278,533 Transferred to participants during the year 110,561 Forfeited during the year 59,822 Total outstanding shares at 31 December 2,061,237 1,407,867 Total shares transferable to participants at 31 December 433,564 A summary of the outstanding awards is presented below: Number of Number of outstanding awards outstanding awards 2010 2009 2007 SIP grant 433,564 533,940 2008 SIP grant 560,873 595,394 2009 SIP grant 162,355 173,511 2010 SIP grant 506,063 2009 French SIP grant 10,792 10,792 2010 French SIP grant 36,284 2009 ACI SIP grant 94,230 94,230 2010 ACI SIP grant 257,076 144 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 24.
Share options and share-based incentive awards continued The weighted average fair value i. e. share price at date of grant for awards granted during 2010 was 388.60 pence.
e Sharesave Sharesave options are usually exercisable for six months starting on the first month of exercise after the three or five year savings period.
The changes during the year to new or treasury shares under option pursuant to the Sharesave plans were as follows: Number of shares Weighted average Number of shares Weighted average under option exercise price under option exercise price 2010 pence 2009 pence At 1 January 1,318,122 258.66 1,326,393 228.22 Granted awarded during the year 448,975 334.00 271,719 329.00 Exercised during the year 369,977 224.18 168,773 148.38 Lapsed during the year 82,000 275.01 111,217 234.79 Total outstanding shares at 31 December 1,315,120 293.06 1,318,122 258.66 Total exercisable shares at 31 December 16,259 181.99 2,438 134.11 Details of the outstanding Sharesave options are as follows: Number of Exercise price per Weighted average Number of Exercise price per Weighted average outstanding shares share remaining outstanding shares share remaining contractual under option pence contractual life under option pence life 2010 2010 years 2009 2009 years 2004 Sharesave 5 years grant 2,438 134.11 2005 Sharesave 5 years grant 11,429 146.49 0.50 138,250 146.49 1.50 2007 Sharesave 3 years grant 4,830 266.00 250,179 266.00 1.00 2007 Sharesave 5 years grant 146,053 266.00 2.00 166,981 266.00 3.00 2008 Sharesave 3 years grant 270,342 246.00 1.50 289,377 246.00 2.50 2008 Sharesave 5 years grant 186,248 246.00 3.50 201,225 246.00 4.50 2009 Sharesave 3 years grant 153,328 329.00 2.50 167,831 329.00 3.50 2009 Sharesave 5 years grant 96,170 329.00 4.50 101,841 329.00 5.50 2010 Sharesave 3 years grant 252,382 334.00 3.50 2010 Sharesave 5 years grant 194,338 334.00 5.50 The weighted average remaining contractual life of the Sharesave options outstanding at 31 December 2010 was 2.17 years 2009: 2.8 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise during the year was 391.83 pence.
The weighted average fair value i. e. share price at date of grant for awards granted during 2010 was 333.38 pence.
In addition to the executive options and awards and to the SIP, a charge has been made to the income statement for options granted after 7 November 2002 pursuant to the 1998 Sharesave option schemes, or from the 2007 grants the 2007 Sharesave option plan.
f Options from the ESOT The trustee of the ESOT held 2,811,679 ordinary shares as at 31 December 2010 2009: 1,056,440 ordinary shares to meet potential future exercises of executive options and long-term incentive plans.
The ESOT shares are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The market value of Amlin plc ordinary shares at 31 December 2010 was 408.9 pence per share 2009: 358.7 pence per share.
In addition to the options and awards included above, the following options have been committed to be met from shares held by the ESOT: Weighted average Weighted average Number of shares remaining Number of shares remaining contractual under option contractual life under option life 2010 years 2009 years 2008 Amlin Special Tranche 1 23,595 0.75 23,595 1.75 2008 Amlin Special Tranche 2 13,694 1.66 13,694 2.66 2010 Amlin Special 23,595 2.42 2010 Amlin Special 586 2.75 The assets, liabilities, income and costs of the ESOT are incorporated into the consolidated financial statements.
The ESOT waives the right to dividends on ordinary shares in excess of 0.01 pence per share ranking for an interim or final dividend.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 145 Assumptions The weighted average share price of Amlin plc throughout the year was 397.59 pence per share 2009: 358.15 pence per share.
The Black Scholes option pricing model has been used to determine the fair value of the option grants and share awards listed above.
The assumptions used in the model are as follows: 2010 2009 Weighted average share price on grant pence 249.63 227.19 Weighted average exercise price pence 194.21 189.09 Expected volatility 30.00% 30.00% Expected life years 3.00 7.50 3.00 7.50 Risk free rate of return 2.00% 5.00% 2.00% 5.00% Expected dividend yield 2.00% 7.00% 2.00% 7.00% Volatility The volatility of the Amlin share price is calculated as a normalised standard deviation of the log of the daily return on the share price.
In estimating 30% volatility, the volatility of return for six months, one year and three year intervals are considered.
As a guide to the reasonableness of the volatility estimate similar calculations are performed on a selection of Amlins peer group.
Interest rate The risk free interest rate is consistent with government bond yields.
Dividend yield The assumptions are consistent with the information given in the report and accounts for each relevant valuation year.
Staff turnover The option pricing calculations are split by staffing grades as staff turnover is higher for more junior grades.
Furthermore historical evidence suggests that senior employees tend to hold their options for longer whereas more junior levels within the organisation appear to exercise earlier.
In addition, senior employees hold a larger proportion of the options but represent a smaller group of individuals.
Market conditions The Group issues options that include targets for the Groups performance against a number of market and non-market conditions.
Failure to meet these targets can reduce the number of options exercisable.
In some circumstances no options may be exercised.
Assumptions are made about the likelihood of meeting the market and non-market conditions based on the outlook at the time of each option grant.
ii Cash-settled scheme The Group rewards senior underwriters through payments under the Capital Builder Plan the Plan if they achieve performance below the target loss ratio for their class es of business or business area over the five year period of each award under the Plan.
Under the scheme rules, the Group has the option to settle the awarded bonus in the shares of the Company as an alternative to cash payment.
In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, the Plan is deemed to be a cash-settled share-based payment arrangement.
Provision for payments of an award under the Plan is calculated every year where actual profits exceed the target profit on a cumulative basis over the performance period to date under the Plan.
The rate of accrual for each five year performance period is determined at the start of the period reflecting the share of the excess return payable and committed under the terms of the Plan.
Under this approach, the services received and the related liability are recognised as the services are rendered, in that the liability at any point in time for the Plan reflects the level of actual performance by underwriters in relation to the target.
The carrying amount and the intrinsic value of the liability under this Plan at the end of 2010 is 8.7 million 2009: 8.9 million and included in note 26 for other payables.
Restricted assets At 31 December 2010, Syndicate 2001 holds gross assets of 2,821.0 million 2009: 2,705.6 million which are held within individual trust funds and the Group cannot obtain or use them until such time as each Syndicate underwriting year is closed and profits are distributed, or an advance profit release is made.
At 31 December 2010, US$181.7 million 2009: US$145.1 million of Amlin Bermudas assets are restricted for use by the Group.
These assets are collateral for the LOC facility drawn at the end of the year.
Details are included in note 27 for borrowings.
At 31 December 2010, Leadenhall Value Insurance Linked Investments Funds Plc and Leadenhall Diversified Insurance Linked Investment Funds Plc, hold a combined 5.0 million in money market funds.
These assets are held as collateral for insurance-linked securities.
The Leadenhall funds hold an encumbered cash balance of US$14.4 million as collateral for FX forward contracts and insurance-linked securities held.
The market values at 31December 2010 for the insurance-linked securities are a debit of US$49.2 million and a credit of 1.6 million.
The market values at 31 December 2010 for FX forward contracts are a debit of US$36.8 million and a credit of 27.5 million.
146 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 26.
Other payables, including insurance and reinsurance payables and deferred income 2010 2009 26.
Other payables, including insurance and reinsurance payables and deferred income m m 2010 2009 Insurance and reinsurance payables 245.9 243.7 m m Trade payables 53.9 51.9 Insurance and reinsurance payables 245.9 243.7 Accrued expenses 79.3 87.0 Trade payables 53.9 51.9 Social security and other tax payables 6.5 4.9 Accrued expenses 79.3 87.0 Other payables 139.7 143.8 Social security and other tax payables 6.5 4.9 385.6 387.5 Other payables 139.7 143.8 385.6 387.5 The current and non-current portions are expected to be as follows: The current and non-current portions are expected to be as follows: 2010 2009 m m 2010 2009 Current portion 360.5 352.6 m m Non-current portion 25.1 34.9 Current portion 360.5 352.6 385.6 387.5 Non-current portion 25.1 34.9 385.6 387.5 The carrying amounts disclosed above are reasonably approximate to the fair value at the reporting date.
Insurance payables are comprised principally of premium payable for reinsurance, including reinstatement premium.
Borrowings m m 2010 2009 Subordinated debt 318.0 316.4 m m Subordinated debt 318.0 316.4 The borrowings in the above table are all non-current.
The borrowings in the above table are all non-current.
The Groups borrowings comprise four issues of subordinated debt.
Details of the subordinated debt issues are as follows: The Groups borrowings comprise four issues of subordinated debt.
Details of the subordinated debt issues are as f Inte oll re ows: st rate to Interest rate from reset date reset date to maturity date Interest rate to Interest rate from reset date Issue date Principal amount Reset date Maturity date % % reset date to maturity date 1 23 November 2004 US$50m November 2014 November 2019 7.11 LIBOR 3.48 Issue date Principal amount Reset date Maturity date % % 1 1 15 March 2005 US$50m March 2015 March 2020 7.28 LIBOR 3.32 23 November 2004 US$50m November 2014 November 2019 7.11 LIBOR 3.48 1 1 25 April 2006 230m December 2016 December 2026 6.50 LIBOR 2.66 15 March 2005 US$50m March 2015 March 2020 7.28 LIBOR 3.32 2 1 15 October 2003 30m N A October 2018 6.50 N A 25 April 2006 230m December 2016 December 2026 6.50 LIBOR 2.66 2 15 1 fide Octo bt iss ber 2 ued by 003 Amlin p lc 30m N A October 2018 6.50 N A 2 Debt issued by Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. 1 Debt issued by Amlin plc 2 Debt issued by Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. The subordinated debt will be redeemed on the maturity dates at the principal amounts, together with any outstanding accrued interest.
For the US dollar and sterling bonds, the Group has the option to redeem the bonds in whole, subject to certain requirements, on the reset dates or any interest The subordinated debt will be redeemed on the maturity dates at the principal amounts, together with any outstanding accrued interest.
For the US payment date thereafter at the principal amount plus any outstanding accrued interest.
The euro bond was acquired by the Group as part of the dollar and sterling bonds, the Group has the option to redeem the bonds in whole, subject to certain requirements, on the reset dates or any interest acquisition of Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. ACI.
payment date thereafter at the principal amount plus any outstanding accrued interest.
The euro bond was acquired by the Group as part of the acquisition of Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. ACI.
The directors estimation of the fair value of the Groups borrowings is 384.6 million 2009: 380.2 million.
The aggregate fair values of borrowings are based on a discounted cash flow model.
This model uses a current yield curve appropriate for the remaining terms to maturity.
The discount rate The directors estimation of the fair value of the Groups borrowings is 384.6 million 2009: 380.2 million.
The aggregate fair values of borrowings used was 2.80% 2009: 3.41%.
are based on a discounted cash flow model.
On 3 September 2008 the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a renegotiated debt facility with its banks which is available for five years from the date of signing and provides an unsecured 250 million multi-currency revolving credit facility available by way of cash advances and On 3 September 2008 the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a renegotiated debt facility with its banks which is available for five a secured US$200 million LOC.
The facility is guaranteed by the Companys subsidiaries Amlin Corporate Services Limited and Amlin Overseas years from the date of signing and provides an unsecured 250 million multi-currency revolving credit facility available by way of cash advances and Holdings Limited.
The secured LOC is secured by a fixed charge over a portfolio of assets managed by Insight Investment Management Global a secured US$200 million LOC.
The facility is guaranteed by the Companys subsidiaries Amlin Corporate Services Limited and Amlin Overseas Limited with State Street Bank and Trust Company as custodian.
As at 31 December 2010 the facility was undrawn 2009: undrawn.
The secured LOC is secured by a fixed charge over a portfolio of assets managed by Insight Investment Management Global Limited with State Street Bank and Trust Company as custodian.
Amlin AG has a secured US$200 million LOC facility with Lloyds TSB Bank plc and the Royal Bank of Scotland plc as lead arrangers.
The facility is secured by a registered charge over a portfolio of assets managed by Aberdeen Asset Management Inc with State Street Bank and Trust Company Amlin AG has a secured US$200 million LOC facility with Lloyds TSB Bank plc and the Royal Bank of Scotland plc as lead arrangers.
The facility is as custodian.
As at 31 December 2010, US$174.6 million of LOC were issued 2009: US$124.9 million.
The total value of restricted assets as at secured by a registered charge over a portfolio of assets managed by Aberdeen Asset Management Inc with State Street Bank and Trust Company 31 December 2010 was US$181.7 million 2009: US$145.1 million.
The total value of restricted assets as at 31 December 2010 was US$181.7 million 2009: US$145.1 million.
In June 2009, ACI entered into a credit facility with Fortis Bank Nederland N. V. as arranger.
The facility provides a guarantee to a third party of up to 10.0 million and a guarantee standby LOC for up to 22.5 million.
As at 31 December 2010, 28.7 million of guarantees were issued In June 2009, ACI entered into a credit facility with Fortis Bank Nederland N. V. as arranger.
The facility provides a guarantee to a third party of 2009: 26.7 million.
There are no restricted assets to secure the facility.
However, in the situation of default, the general credit conditions will apply.
up to 10.0 million and a guarantee standby LOC for up to 22.5 million.
As at 31 December 2010, 28.7 million of guarantees were issued 2009: 26.7 million.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 147 28.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group participates in a number of pension schemes, including defined benefit, defined contribution and personal pension schemes.
The total charge to the income statement for these schemes is shown in the table below: 2010 2009 m m Defined contribution schemes 5.4 4.1 Defined benefit schemes: Lloyds Superannuation Fund 0.2 1.0 ACI defined benefit schemes 2.1 1.3 7.3 6.4 a Defined benefit schemes i The Lloyds Superannuation Fund funded defined benefit scheme Scheme description The scheme is operated as part of the Lloyds Superannuation Fund the Fund.
Historically the Fund has catered for a number of employers in the Lloyds market.
As a consequence of the consolidation in the market, employers closing final salary schemes and some companies failing, there are now only 3 2009: 3 employers with active members in the Fund.
A large proportion of the liability of the Fund relates to employers no longer participating in the Fund.
The assets of the Fund are pooled and the current active employers are responsible collectively for the funding of the Fund as a whole.
For the purposes of determining contributions to be paid, the Trustee has split the Fund into a number of notional sections.
This is a notional split and has no legal force.
Previously this notional split allowed for separate sections in respect of each employers active members and one combined section for non-employed members of all current and former employers.
With effect from 31 December 2002, the Trustee altered this notional split so that, from that date, the active employers contributing to the Fund, including the Amlin Group, have individual notional sections comprising the notionally allocated assets in respect of their active employees, deferred pensioners and pensioners, and their corresponding liabilities.
A separate notional fund is maintained for members whose former employers no longer contribute to the Fund Orphan Schemes.
The Group is also liable for a proportion of the Orphan Schemes liabilities.
Since this alteration and the exit of other employers the Group has been able to more clearly identify its expected contribution requirement to the Fund and able to ascertain its share of the assets and liabilities with sufficient certainty to account for the pension as a defined benefit scheme and bring the assets and liabilities of the scheme onto the balance sheet of the Group.
Fund contributions No additional contribution was made in 2010 2009: 5.0 million to reduce the size of the deficit in the scheme.
Contributions are paid to provide for the cost of benefit accrual.
The rate of contribution agreed with the Trustee is 19% 2009: 19% paid by the employer plus 5% 2009: 5% member contributions, in each case of pensionable earnings, and totalled 0.9 million 2009: 0.9 million.
The expected contribution to the fund for the year ending 31 December 2011 is 0.7 million by the Group and 0.2 million by plan participants.
The total amounts paid in respect of the Fund are analysed in the table below: 2010 2009 m m Contributions relating to: One off top up payment Amlin scheme 5.0 Ongoing funding 0.7 0.7 Group share of total payment 0.7 5.7 Funding assessment assumptions The funding position of the Fund is assessed every three years by an independent qualified actuary.
Contributions are made at the funding rates recommended by the actuary, which vary across different sections of the Fund reflecting the notional sections then adopted, and typically include adjustments to amortise any funding surplus or shortfall over a period.
Amounts paid under the scheme are charged to Syndicate 2001 or other Group companies.
Actuarial amounts quoted below are for the Groups notional share of the scheme.
148 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 28.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The last completed formal valuation of the Fund was as at 31 March 2007 and was carried out by Mr N Wharmby, Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, and used the projected unit credit actuarial method.
The formal valuation at 31 March 2010 will be completed in 2011.
For the purpose of providing disclosure in accordance with International Accounting Standard 19 Employee Benefits IAS 19, the Group has requested the actuary to update the 2007 valuation to 31 December 2010 using appropriate techniques and the following assumptions: 2010 2009 % pa % pa Price inflation 3.6 3.7 Rate of increase in pensions payment: LPI maximum 5% pa 3.5 3.5 LPI minimum 3% pa, maximum 5% pa 3.8 3.9 LPI maximum 3% pa 2.6 2.7 Rate of increase of statutory revaluation on deferred pension 2.9 3.7 Discount rate 5.4 5.6 During 2005 the Group reviewed its remaining defined benefit arrangements and made a number of changes to the schemes operations, which were implemented during 2006.
In particular, in order to remove much of the risk associated with salary inflation, the scheme was changed to allow members to continue accruing additional years service under the schemes, but these accruals would be generally based on March 2006 pensionable salaries.
Future salary increases are pensionable through the defined contribution schemes.
Therefore the salary inflation assumption used for the ongoing valuation is now nil% 2009: nil%.
In 2010 the UK Government announced that inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index CPI rather than the Retail Price Index RPI would be used as the measure for minimum increases to occupational pensions.
In accordance with the Funds revaluation rules, CPI has been used as an assumption in valuing the defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2010.
The mortality assumptions used in the latest valuation included the following life expectancies: 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Male Female Male Female Life expectancy years at age 60 for a member currently: Aged 60 25.5 28.5 25.4 28.4 Aged 45 26.8 29.6 26.7 29.5 The table below shows the impact on the defined benefit obligation that a change in certain key assumptions would have: Defined benefit obligation impact m Assumption change Increase decrease in discount rate by 0.25% 11 13 Decrease Increase in inflation rate by 0.25% 6 6 Increase in floor mortality improvements for males of 1.5% and females of 1.0% per annum 6 ii ACI defined benefit plans Scheme description ACI operates defined benefit pension plans covering the majority of its employees.
These plans are funded partly by means of employee contributions.
Under these plans, benefits are based on years of service and level of salary.
Pension obligations are determined based on mortality, employee turnover, wage increases and economic assumptions such as inflation, value of plan assets and discount rate.
The discount rate is set on the basis of the yield on the valuation date of debt securities issued by blue-chip companies.
In addition to pension charges, costs of defined benefit plans also include other post-employment benefits such as reimbursement of part of the health insurance premiums and favourable conditions on financial products e. g. mortgage loans, which continue to be granted to employees after retirement.
The assets and liabilities of the Netherlands pension plan were acquired as part of the ACI acquisition.
Prior to acquisition, employees of the Belgian office were employed by another company within the Fortis group.
Immediately following the acquisition, 109 ACI Belgian employees from a total of 130 transferred their employment to ACI.
Consequently the net pension obligation with respect to these employees was recognised by the Group immediately after the completion of the acquisition.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 149 Funding assessment assumptions The table below shows the actuarial assumptions used: The Netherlands Belgium 2010 2010 % % Discount rate for pension benefits 5.15 4.7 Discount rate for Jubilee benefits 4.0 3.8 Discount rate for farewell premium 4.4 Discount rate for post retirement medical 5.1 Expected return on plan assets 5.15 4.0 Expected wage increases general 2.0 2.0 Expected wage increases merit 0-6.75 1.5 Inflation 2.0 2.0 Indexation for active employees 2.0 Indexation for formerly active employees 2.0 Medical trend rate 4.0 The mortality assumptions used in the latest valuation included the following life expectancies: The Netherlands Belgium Male Female Male Female Life expectancy years at age 60 for a member currently: Aged 60 24.5 27.4 22.1 25.9 Aged 45 26.6 28.4 22.1 25.9 The table below shows the impact on the defined benefit obligation that a change in certain key assumptions would have: Defined benefit obligation impact m Assumption change Increase decrease in discount rate by 0.25% 2.7 2.9 Decrease increase in inflation rate by 0.25% 3.0 2.7 Increase in floor mortality improvements for males of 1.5% and females of 1.0% per annum 0.2 Fund contributions The expected contribution to the funds by the Group during 2011 is 3.1 million 2010: 3.6 million.
iii Amounts recognised in the Groups financial statements for defined benefit schemes Amounts recognised in income statement in respect of the defined benefit schemes are as follows: 2010 2009 m m Current service cost 2.5 1.2 Interest cost 19.7 17.0 Expected return on scheme assets 18.8 15.9 Reversal of provision for additional pension payments 1.5 Total debited to income statement included in staff costs 1.9 2.3 Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income are as follows: 2010 2009 m m Recognition of net gains losses 11.9 23.7 Ceiling limit on asset gains 6.0 Gains losses recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 5.9 23.7 150 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 28.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Groups obligations in respect of its defined benefit retirement benefit schemes is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 364.9 359.0 Fair value of scheme assets 355.6 334.5 Deficit in schemes 9.3 24.5 Restriction to defined benefit asset due to asset ceiling 6.0 Liability recognised in the balance sheet 15.3 24.5 The Lloyds Superannuation Fund is in surplus at 31 December 2010.
The Funds rules do not allow the Group to receive a refund of contributions in any circumstances.
As such, the recognition of the defined benefit asset is restricted and the surplus is reduced to nil.
Of the total liability of 15.3 million, 0.8 million is expected to be settled within 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations during the year is as follows: 2010 2009 m m At 1 January 359.0 260.0 Employer service cost 2.5 1.2 Interest cost 19.7 17.0 Contributions from scheme members 0.7 0.4 Actuarial gains losses 2.1 53.6 Benefits paid from plan assets 13.4 13.2 Acquisition through business combination 32.6 Transfer of ACI Belgium scheme liabilities post-acquisition 6.6 Foreign exchange 1.5 0.8 At 31 December 364.9 359.0 The expected total benefit payments to plan participants during 2011 is 12.5 million for the Lloyds Superannuation Fund LSF and 1.2 million for the ACI defined benefit schemes 2010: LSF 12.7 million and ACI schemes 0.8 million.
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets during the year is as follows: 2010 2009 m m At 1 January 334.5 256.0 Expected return on scheme assets 18.8 15.9 Difference between expected and actual return 19.3 30.1 Employer contributions 5.4 6.8 Plan participant contributions 0.7 0.4 Benefits paid 13.4 13.2 Administrative expenses 0.2 Acquisition through business combination 35.3 Transfer of ACI Belgium scheme assets post-acquisition 2.4 Foreign exchange losses gains 1.3 1.0 Other movements 8.4 At 31 December 355.6 334.5 Other movements include a decrease of 8.4 million in the fair value of plan assets in respect of the ACI Netherlands defined benefit pension scheme.
The fair value of the plan assets reflects a more prudent assessment of the assumed benefits that accrue to ACI under the insurance policy taken out to meet its obligations.
This is in line with a market-wide reassessment of assumptions.
This movement is included in the actuarial loss in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 151 The analysis of the plan assets and the expected rate of return at the balance sheet date are as follows: Asset mix Long term rate of return 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 ACI Fund ACI Fund LSF LSF LSF Belgium LSF Belgium Equities 28.0% 30.0% 8.1% 4.0% 8.2% Bonds 64.0% 70.0% 4.9% 4.0% 5.0% 4.0% Property 8.0% 7.5% The long-term rates of return are estimated by the Directors based upon current expectations of future investment performance.
The five-year history of experience adjustments is as follows: 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m LSF Asset experience Fair value of scheme asset 320.0 295.0 256.0 318.0 315.0 Asset gain loss during period 18.7 30.3 71.5 9.0 Asset gain loss as percentage of plan assets 5.8% 10.3% 27.9% 3.0% Liability experience Present value of defined benefit obligations 314.0 315.0 260.0 295.0 304.0 Liability loss gain during period 0.5 6.7 5.0 Liability gain loss as percentage of plan assets 0.2% 2.6% 2.0% Liability assumptions Liability gain loss over period 6.0 51.0 47.0 15.0 2.0 Liability gain loss as percentage of defined benefit obligations 1.9% 16.2% 18.1% 5.0% 1.0% 2010 2009 m m ACI Asset experience Fair value of scheme asset 35.6 39.5 Asset loss during period 7.8 0.2 Asset loss as percentage of plan assets 21.8% 1.0% Liability experience Present value of defined benefit obligations 50.9 44.0 Liability loss during period 0.2 Liability loss as percentage of plan assets 0.3% Liability assumptions Liability loss over period 4.2 2.6 Liability loss as percentage of defined benefit obligations 8.2% 5.9% The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in other comprehensive income for all defined benefit schemes is 21.9 million of which 5.5 million relates to the acquisition of ACI.
b The stakeholder defined contribution scheme The defined contribution scheme operated by the Group is a stakeholder arrangement.
The total contributions for the year ended 31 December 2010 to the scheme were 5.4 million 2009: 4.1 million.
The estimated amounts of contributions to the Groups defined contribution pension scheme for the year ending 31 December 2011 are approximately 5.7 million 2010: 4.0 million.
c Amlin AGs pension scheme In accordance with Swiss legislation, Amlin AG provides for occupational pension insurance, the regulations of which, as may be amended from time to time, apply to both Amlin AG and the employee.
The insured salary is based on the agreed compensation exclusive of bonus and or other benefits granted by Amlin AG.
The employees carry the portion of the premiums determined in the applicable pension fund regulations.
During 2010 Amlin AG commenced hiring employees based in Switzerland.
Swiss employees are provided with a pension fund which meets the classification of a defined benefit plan under IAS 19.
Due to the fact that the contributions were not material for 2010 Amlin AG has accounted for the plans as defined contribution plans.
Once the amounts are material the appropriate accounting and disclosures will be made.
The total contributions for the year ended 31 December 2010 to the scheme were 0.2 million.
The estimated amounts of contributions to the scheme for the year ending 31 December 2011 are approximately 0.8 million.
152 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 28.
Retirement benefit obligations continued d Other arrangements Other pension arrangements include an occupational money purchase scheme which provides Death In Service protection for all employees.
Regular contributions, expressed as a percentage of employees earnings, are paid into this scheme and are allocated to accounts in the names of the individual members, which are independent of the Groups finances.
There were no outstanding contributions at 31 December 2010 2009: nil.
Earnings and net assets per share Earnings per share are based on the profit attributable to shareholders and the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT and treasury shares are excluded from the weighted average number of shares.
Basic Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax by the weighted average number of issued shares during the year.
Diluted Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax by the adjusted average number of shares in issue.
The adjusted average number of shares assumes conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares, being shares from the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS, Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, Performance Share Plan PSP, Share Incentive Plan SIP and the Sharesave scheme.
Basic and diluted earnings per share are as follows: 2010 2009 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company 221.8m 454.7m Weighted average number of shares in issue 493.0m 483.1m Dilutive shares 6.6m 6.2m Adjusted average number of shares in issue 499.6m 489.3m Basic earnings per share 45.0p 94.1p Diluted earnings per share 44.4p 92.9p Net assets and tangible net assets per share are as follows: 2010 2009 Net assets 1,729.9m 1,593.1m Adjustments for intangible assets 184.5m 162.8m Tangible net assets 1,545.4m 1,430.3m Number of shares in issue at end of the year 502.1m 502.1m Adjustment for ESOT and treasury shares 8.7m 8.2m Basic number of shares after ESOT and treasury shares adjustment 493.4m 493.9m Basic net assets per share 350.6p 322.6p Basic tangible net assets per share 313.2p 289.6p 30.
Dividends The amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders are as follows: 2010 2009 m m Group Final dividend for the year ended: 31 December 2009 of Amlin Plus Limited to minority shareholders 0.1 31 December 2008 of Amlin Plus Limited to minority shareholders 0.1 31 December 2008 of 11.0 pence per ordinary share 51.6 Interim dividend for the year ended: 31 December 2010 of 7.2 pence per ordinary share 35.6 31 December 2009 of 6.5 pence per ordinary share 32.1 Second interim dividend for the year ended: 31 December 2009 of 13.5 pence per ordinary share 66.8 102.5 83.8 The final ordinary dividend of 15.8 pence per ordinary share for 2010, amounting to 78.0 million, payable in cash, was agreed by the Board on 1 March 2011, subject to shareholder approval, and has not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2010.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 153 31.
Principal exchange rates The principal exchange rates used in translating foreign currency assets, liabilities, income and expenditure in the production of these financial statements were: Average rate Year end rate 2010 2009 2010 2009 US dollar 1.55 1.57 1.56 1.61 Canadian dollar 1.59 1.78 1.55 1.69 Euro 1.17 1.12 1.17 1.13 32.
Contingent liabilities The Group has no contingent liabilities at 31 December 2010 31 December 2009: nil.
Commitments a Capital commitments There were no capital commitments at the end of the financial year except the commitments made to Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP as described in note 36. b Operating lease commitments where Group companies are the lessees The Group leases various offices under cancellable operating lease agreements.
The Group is required to give various notice for the termination of these agreements.
The lease expenditure charged to the income statement during the year is disclosed in note 13.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows.
The comparative numbers have been amended to reflect revised information, resulting in an increase in future aggregate minimum lease payments of 13.5 million.
This has no impact on reported profit before tax.
Cash generated from operations 2010 2009 Notes m m Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 259.2 509.1 Adjustments: Depreciation charge 13 3.5 4.9 Amortisation charge 13 5.5 4.3 Finance costs 12 27.4 23.0 Interest received 6 54.5 88.1 Dividends received 6 5.8 5.2 Gains on investments realised and unrealised 6 114.7 114.2 Movement in operating assets and liabilities: Net purchases of financial investments 17 214.1 11.5 Exchange losses on investments 17 47.0 128.0 Assets of operations previously classified as held for sale 17 64.4 Decrease increase in assets of operation classified as held for sale 63.7 63.7 Decrease increase in loans and receivables 63.8 69.0 Decrease increase in reinsurance contract assets 94.2 52.8 Increase decrease in insurance contract liabilities 353.7 98.5 Increase in other payables 7.2 10.0 Decrease in retirement benefits 6.8 Increase in investments in jointly owned entities 0.5 Exchange losses gains on long-term borrowings 1.1 5.7 Exchange losses gains on other non-operating assets and liabilities 20.2 91.2 Other non-cash movements 6.6 7.8 Cash generated from operations 183.6 324.5 154 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 35.
Principal subsidiary companies The principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2010 which are consolidated in these financial statements, all of which are wholly owned unless otherwise stated, operate in the UK, Belgium, Bermuda, France, the Netherlands, Singapore and Switzerland: Subsidiary undertakings Principal activity Registered in Amlin Underwriting Limited Lloyds managing agency England and Wales Amlin Corporate Services Limited Group service, employing and intermediate holding company England and Wales Allied Cedar Insurance Group Limited Intermediate holding company England and Wales Amlin Underwriting Services Limited Lloyds service company England and Wales Amlin Plus Limited Lloyds service company England and Wales Amlin Corporate Member Limited Corporate member at Lloyds England and Wales Amlin Overseas Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company England and Wales AUA Insolvency Risk Services Limited Regulated broker England and Wales Amlin AG Reinsurance company Switzerland Amlin Singapore Pte Limited Lloyds service company Singapore Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. Insurance company Netherlands Amlin France Holdings SAS Intermediate holding company France Amlin France SAS Lloyds coverholder France Crowe Livestock Underwriting Limited Lloyds coverholder England and Wales Leadenhall Diversified Insurance Linked Investments Fund PLC Fund management Ireland Leadenhall Value Insurance Linked Investments Fund PLC Fund management Ireland Some subsidiaries have been omitted from this statement to avoid providing particulars of excessive length but none materially affects the results or assets of the Group.
60% owned by the Group Amlin AG was re-domiciled from Bermuda during the year and renamed from Amlin Bermuda Ltd, after which it operated both in Switzerland and through a branch in Bermuda.
96.5% owned by the Group 96.3% owned by the Group 36.
Other Group companies Jointly owned entity Amlin Corporate Services Limited has an investment of 1.7 million in a jointly owned entity, Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP LCP.
LCP was established as a new asset management company focused on insurance linked investments.
LCP is incorporated in England and Wales.
The Group holds 50% of the voting rights.
The Group has committed to pay up to a further US$4 million to support the operations of the agency as part of the joint venture agreement.
The Groups share of LCPs profit for the current and prior years is nil.
Summary financial information for LCP is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Assets 4.8 2.6 Liabilities 1.9 1.8 Revenues 2.6 1.7 Profit for the year 0.6 0.4 All of LCPs assets and liabilities are classified as current.
During the year, LCP charged the Group management fees of 2.6 million 2009: 1.6 million.
The Group charged LCP 0.4 million 2009: 0.2 million under the terms of the service agreement.
At 31 December 2010, the Group held a debtor of 1.2 million due from LCP.
No amounts were provided for doubtful recovery of this debtor and no expense was recognised during the year in respect of bad or doubtful debts from LCP.
Associates During 2010, Amlin Corporate Services Limited invested 0.5 million to acquire 25% of the voting rights in Manchester Underwriting Management Limited MUM.
MUM was established as a managing general agent and is initially underwriting professional indemnity insurance.
The majority of the business written by MUM is underwritten by Amlin UK.
Operations held for sale At 31 December 2009, the Group classified its controlling interest in Leadenhall Capital Partners two insurance-linked funds, the Leadenhall Diversified Insurance Linked Investments Funds and the Leadenhall Value Insurance Linked Investments Fund, totalling 63.7 million, as held for sale.
The Group retained this controlling interest at 31 December 2010.
Whilst the management of Leadenhall Capital Partners remains optimistic of attracting external investment to the funds over the next twelve months, there is insufficient evidence to demonstrate that it is highly probable the Group will dispose of its controlling interest by way of dilution in that time frame.
As such, the Groups investment in the Leadenhall funds was reclassified from operation classified as held for sale on 31 December 2010 and subsequently fully consolidated.
The carrying value of the assets and liabilities of the funds at 31 December 2010 is 73.1 million.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the accounts 155 37.
Related party transactions i Transactions and balances with related parties Amlin Plus Amlin Underwriting Limited and Lycetts Holdings Limited, the owners of Lycett, Browne-Swinburne and Douglas Limited and Lycetts Hamilton Limited, own 60% and 40% respectively of the share capital of Amlin Plus Limited Amlin Plus.
The business of Amlin Plus bloodstock insurance is written under a binding authority agreement with Syndicate 2001, some of which is sourced through a single broker, Lycett, Browne-Swinburne and Douglas Limited.
Syndicate 2001 is managed by Amlin Underwriting Limited.
The capacity on Syndicate 2001 is underwritten by a fellow subsidiary in the Amlin Group.
All transactions between Amlin Plus and its related parties are conducted on an arms length basis.
During the year Amlin Plus wrote 12.3 million 2009: 12.8 million of premium under the binding authority agreement, of which 5.8 million 2009: 6.7 million was produced by Lycett, Browne-Swinburne and Douglas Limited earning brokerage commission of 1.0 million 2009: 1.1 million on this business.
At the year end, Syndicate 2001 was owed 2.8 million 2009: 3.3 million by Amlin Plus and Lycett Browne-Swinburne and Douglas Limited owed 1.6 million 2009: 1.5 million to Amlin Plus.
Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP At 31 December 2010, the Group had a balance receivable from Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP of 1.2 million 2009: 1.0 million.
The Group enters into transactions with its joint venture in the normal course of business.
The sales to and purchases from related parties are made at normal market prices.
Details of the Groups joint venture are given in note 36.
Syndicate 6106 For the 2009 underwriting year of account, the Group commenced operating a Special Purpose Syndicate S 6106 to write a 15% quota share contract of the excess of loss reinsurance account of Syndicate 2001.
The transactions provide external members capital to support 2009 underwriting, enabling Syndicate 2001 to take advantage of strong opportunities in peak zones in the US, Japan and Europe.
Brian Carpenter, a director of the Company, held a 0.07% share of capacity as a Name on S6106 for the 2009 year of account 2010 year of account: nil%.
All transactions with S6106 are undertaken on an arms length basis.
ii Compensation of key management personnel Key management personnel are those directors and senior managers responsible for planning and control of the activities of the Group.
Key management comprises eleven executive directors and employees and seven non-executive directors 2009: nine and seven respectively.
Compensation during the year to key management personnel is analysed below: 2010 2009 m m Short-term employee benefits 8.5 7.7 Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.4 Equity-settled share-based payments 1.0 0.7 Cash-settled share-based payments 1.2 10.0 10.0 Cash-settled share-based payments have been included in the above table, including the addition to 2009, to better reflect the total compensation paid to key management personnel.
iii Transactions with directors Certain directors of the Company are also directors of other companies, as described in the directors biographical details on page 74 of the Annual Report.
Such other companies and or their subsidiaries may, and in some cases do, conduct business with companies in the Amlin Group, including GeoVera Insurance Holdings Ltd of which Mr Feinstein is a non-executive director and TrygVesta A S of which Mrs Bosse was Chief Executive Officer until 31 January 2011, which both purchase reinsurance or whose subsidiaries purchase reinsurance from the Amlin Group.
In all cases transactions between the Amlin Group and such other companies are carried out on normal arms length commercial terms.
iv Internal reinsurance arrangements During the current and prior year, there were a number of reinsurance arrangements entered into in the normal course of trade between various Group companies, i. e. the reinsurance contract between Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Bermuda, and that between Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. The related results of these transactions have been eliminated on consolidation.
38. Business Combinations i Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. Adjustments to the provisional fair values of the assets and liabilities of Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. acquired on 22 July 2009 total 2.3 million net of tax, resulting in an increase in goodwill.
The adjustments have been made to adjust the recoverable amount of reinsurance assets and loans and receivables.
ii AUA Insolvency Risk Services Limited On 22 January 2010, the Group acquired the trade and assets of a United Kingdom insolvency practitioners insurance business from Lockton, Inc.
The purchase consideration was 13.0 million cash.
AUA Insolvency Risk Services Limited introduces insurance business to the Group.
The fair value of the tangible net assets acquired was nil and the fair value of intangible assets acquired was 13.0 million, resulting in the recognition of no goodwill on acquisition.
The intangible asset acquired related to the existing customer relationships of the business see note 22.
This acquisition has had no material impact on the revenue or profit or loss of the Group for the period.
156 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2010 39.
Subsequent events i Corporation tax rate The Emergency Budget in June 2010 announced a change in the main rate of UK corporation tax.
A new rate of 27.0% will apply from 1 April 2011, with the rate falling to 24.0% by 1 April 2014.
The rate of 27.0% was enacted in July 2010.
Subsequent reductions of the rate from 26.0% to 24.0% have not yet been enacted or substantively enacted.
The impact of the reduction from 27.0% to 24.0% will be a reduction in the net deferred tax liability of 2.6 million.
ii Business combinations The Group has completed the acquisition of two subsidiaries subsequent to the balance sheet date but prior to the issue of the Annual Report.
On 25 January 2011 Amlin Corporate Services Ltd acquired the entire share capital and voting rights of J R Clare Holding Company Limited and its subsidiary undertaking J R Clare Underwriting Agencies Limited, which is a managing general agent of UK household and commercial insurance.
The purchase consideration was an initial 1.1 million with two further amounts of 1.0 million payable 24 months and 36 months after the acquisition date.
The fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired was 2.1 million net liability and the fair value of the consideration was 2.8 million, resulting in the recognition of 4.9 million of goodwill on acquisition.
The goodwill arose from the premium paid for acquiring a new book of household and commercial insurance business.
On 3 February 2011 Amlin Corporate Services Ltd acquired the entire share capital and voting rights of Lead Yacht Underwriters Limited, an underwriting agency of yacht insurance.
The total consideration was 16.0 million, consisting of an initial 10.0 million paid on completion and a further 6.0 million payable between 2012 and 2016, subject to the financial performance of Lead Yacht Underwriters Limited.
The fair value of the net assets acquired was 4.2 million and the fair value of the consideration was 14.6 million, resulting in the recognition of 10.4 million of goodwill on acquisition.
The goodwill arose from the premium paid for acquiring a platform to further develop the Groups existing yacht business and diversify its underwriting portfolio.
The consideration and net assets are stated at their provisional fair values and may be amended in 2011 when further evidence of the appropriate fair values is expected to be received.
iii Insurance claims The start of 2011 was marked by heavy flooding and tropical cyclone Yasi in Queensland, Australia, and the earthquake in Christchurch, New Zealand.
The Group is still in the process of estimating the impact of these events.
Initial estimates indicate that the losses in Australia are within the Groups expected claims levels for 2011.
However, it is too early to be able to make a definitive statement concerning the event in New Zealand, given the timing and uncertainty of the losses arising.
These are non-adjusting events and therefore are not reflected in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Parent company financial statements 157 Independent Auditors Report To the members of Amlin plc Independent Auditors Report To the members of Amlin plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Amlin plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet, the Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows, the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the accounting policies and the related notes 40 to 51.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in We th hav eir e pr audit epare at d iotn he pa is ap rent plicab colmpan e law and y fin ancial statements of Amli International Financial Re np p ort lcin fo gr St thanda e year rd e s nId FR ed S 3 s 1 a D s e ad ce om ptb ee d by r 20 10 the w Eur hico h co pean Un mprise ionth.
e Parent Company Balance Sheet, the Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows, the Parent Company Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Statement of Changes in Equity, the accounting policies and the related notes 40 to 51.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 88, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the pa Rerent spective responsibilities company financial st of atdi em re ent ctors s inan ac d co au rdanc ditors e with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards re As e quire us xplained to comp more f ly ull wi y i th th n the e Audi Statem ting Pr ent of Di actice re s Boards E ctors resptonsi hical S bilitta iendar s setd o s for ut on Audi pag tor e 8 s. 8, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 Scope of the audit of the financial statements of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting po Scope licies of ar the e ap audit propof riat the e to financial the pare st nt atements companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of sig An au nifidit can invo t acc lvo es un obt ting a e ins ing timat evi ed senc mae fide about by th te h d e a ire m ct ou ornt s:s a ann dd t d he is ov cloera sures i ll prn es the enta fitnanci ion of a t l h state e finm an ec nia tsl s st uat ffie ci m ent to gi ents.
five reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Opinion on financial statements policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of In our opinion the parent company financial statements: significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its cash flows for the year then ended: Opinion on financial statements In ou hav r o e been pinion pro thep pa erly pr rent c epar omed pany in acc financia ordan l st ce wit atemh ent IFR s: Ss as adopted by the European Union: and h ga ive a true and fair view o five been prepared in acc fo the state of rdance with the requiremen the companys affairs ts of th as e at 31 CompDecember 2010 anies Act 2006. and of its cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opi the infor nion: mat ion given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent Matters on which we are required to report by exception with the parent company financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from Matters on which we are required to report by exception branches not visited by us: or We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from accounting records and returns: or branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the we have accounti not ng records and r received all te hte urns: inform or ation and explanations we require for our audit.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Other matter we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Amlin plc for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Other matter We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Amlin plc for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Andrew Kail Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Andrew Kail Senior Statutory Auditor London for and on behalf of  LLP 1 March 2011 Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 1 March 2011
