Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 01 11 12 27 28 48 49 88 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance withapplicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to Under applicable law and regulations, prepare Group and parent Company the Directors are also responsible for financial statements for each financial year.
preparing a Directors report, Directors Under that law they are required to Remuneration report and Corporate prepare the Group financial statements in governance statement that comply with accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the that law and those regulations.
EU and applicable law and have elected The Directors are responsible for the to prepare the parent Company financial maintenance and integrity of the corporate statements on the same basis.
and financial information included on Under company law the Directors the Companys website.
Legislation in must not approve the financial statements the UK governing the preparation and unless they are satisfied that they give a dissemination of financial statements may true and fair view of the state of affairs of differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the Group and parent Company and of Responsibility statement of the their profit or loss for that period.
Directors in respect of the annual In preparing each of the Group and financial report parent Company financial statements, We confirm that to the best of our theDirectors are required to: knowledge: select suitable accounting policies and the financial statements, prepared in then apply them consistently: accordance with the applicable set make judgments and estimates that are of accounting standards, give a true reasonable and prudent: and fair view of the assets, liabilities, state whether they have been prepared financial position and profit or loss of in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Company and the undertakings the EU: and included in the consolidation taken prepare the financial statements on asawhole: and the going concern basis unless it is the Directors report includes a inappropriate to presume that the fair review of the development Group and the parent Company will and performance of the business continue in business.
and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the The Directors are responsible for consolidation taken as a whole, keeping adequate accounting records togetherwith a description of the that are sufficient to show and explain principal risks and uncertainties that the parent Companys transactions and they face.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that Michael Benson its financial statements comply with the Chairman Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 13 September 2010 reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Ashmore Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 33
