Governance 121 Performance review Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 10.
Remuneration policy in practice for EDs Table 6, below, summarises Avivas remuneration policy as it is applied in practice to EDs.
Table 6: Remuneration Policy in practice Policy How delivered Total remuneration Total remuneration package levels are informed by relevant pay data, in particular for 2010 the Basic salary lower quartile to median range of the FTSE 30 and the median to upper quartile range of the ABP FTSE 50.
OATTV Plan 2010 only These reference points are chosen to reflect Avivas market capitalisation and comparability LTIP to other large, sophisticated multi-national companies and the positioning that is appropriate to Long-term savings Aviva in those different comparator groups.
Aviva Staff Pension Scheme ASPS As outlined above, from 2011, this pay data will be based on the median of 25 FTSE companies, Benefits either side of Avivas market capitalisation.
All employee schemes Basic salary Benchmarked as for total remuneration but with positioning and progression taking account of Monthly in cash individual and business performance and the levels of increase provided for the broader UK Reviewed annually in February, with employee population basic salaries of the UK staff increased by 2% on average in 2010. changes taking effect from 1 April.
The committee takes seriously institutional investors concerns on the upward ratchet of basic salaries and is rigorous in its review of market position and salary.
ABP The ABP is intended to motivate executives to achieve the annual business plan, based on a series Annually, one-third is paid in cash and of key financial, employee and customer performance indicators KPIs, which make up 70% of two-thirds in deferred shares.
the bonus opportunity, and personal objectives which make up 30%.
75% of basic salary is payable for on target performance and up to 150% for stretch performance.
Two-thirds of bonus is deferred into shares and the deferred shares vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to reduced vesting for certain leaver circumstances for deferrals made prior to March 2011.
For all deferrals made from March 2011, on resignation during the three-year deferral period, all of the grant is forfeited.
Additional shares are awarded at vesting in lieu of the dividends paid on the deferred shares during the deferral period.
OATTV Plan The OATTV Plan rewards executives for growth in EPS over a three-year period.
As previously Annually, a proportion of the deferred approved by shareholders, the 2010 award was the final award under this plan.
element of the ABP is matched in shares.
The plan matches 100% of the deferred ABP shares for the group chief executive 75% for Shares vest based only upon the other EDs.
achievement of demanding EPS For the 2010 awards, the vesting of these matched shares is dependent on the achievement of growth targets.
an EPS of 49.2 pence per share and then compounded annual growth targets as follows: Less than 14.9% growth pa Nil 14.9% growth pa 0.1 for 1 57.5% growth pa 1 for 1 Matching is on a straight-line basis for performance from 14.9% to 57.5% and beyond, up to a maximum award of 2 for 1.
No additional shares are awarded for the dividends paid during the three-year performance period on those shares that vest.
The methodology for establishing the targets of each OATTV award was not adjusted following the financial crisis of 2008.
Therefore, the outcome of each award is likely to be well below anticipated value.
LTIP The LTIP is intended to motivate the achievement of the Companys longer-term objectives, Annual awards in shares that vest, subject to aid the retention of key personnel and to align executive interests to those of shareholders.
to ROCE and relative TSR performance In 2010 the group chief executive was eligible to receive an annual award of shares equal to conditions being met at the end of a 175% of basic salary.
Other EDs were eligible to receive an annual award of shares equal to three-year performance period.
From 2011 onwards, the standard awards will be 275% and 225% Awards that do not vest lapse.
The Company operates a phantom scheme in the US for its US-based employees.
Levels of awards reflect US market practice.
For awards made prior to 2011, no additional shares are awarded for the dividends paid during the three-year performance period on those shares that vest.
From 2011 onwards, dividend equivalent awards will be paid, in line with the current market practice.
Long-term savings The Aviva Capital Accumulation Plan ACAP is a long-term savings vehicle which aids retention Discretionary payments into a trust where whilst recognising a need for flexibility in long-term wealth planning.
they are held for a minimum of five years.
Company contributions are discretionary and vary year on year, but would not normally exceed 50% of basic salary.
Contributions for the EDs are shown in the table on page 135.
No ED who participates in the ACAP is currently accruing benefits in the ASPS.
A resignation or departure for breach of contract generally results in forfeiture of contribution for the relevant year.
ASPS The UK Aviva Staff Pension Scheme ASPS provides a competitive post-retirement package.
Deferred cash payable on retirement in the Lump sum death in service benefit of four times basic salary is provided, as is a spouses or form of a lump sum monthly payment.
partners pension equal to two-thirds of actual or, on death in service and in certain other circumstances, prospective pension.
Post-retirement increases are equivalent to the Retail Price Index up to a maximum of 10%.
Retirement benefits can be accessed from age 60.
