170 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Accounting policies Aviva plc the Company, a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom UK, together with its subsidiaries collectively, the Group or Aviva transacts life assurance and long-term savings business, fund management and most classes of general insurance and health business through its subsidiaries, associates and branches in the UK, Ireland, continental Europe, United States US, Canada, Asia, Australia and other countries throughout the world.
The Group is managed on a regional basis, reflecting the management structure whereby a member of the Executive Management team is accountable to the group chief executive for the operating segment for which he is responsible.
Further details of the reportable segments are given in note 4.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
A Basis of presentation Since 2005, all European Union listed companies have been required to prepare consolidated financial statements using International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and endorsed by the European Union EU.
The date of transition to IFRS was 1 January 2004.
In addition to fulfilling their legal obligation to comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the Group and Company have also complied with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and applicable at 31 December 2010.
In 2008, the IASB issued revised versions of IFRS 3, Business Combinations, and IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
The former introduced a number of changes in accounting for such transactions that impact the amount of goodwill recognised, the reported results in the period an acquisition occurs and future reported results.
The latter now requires a change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary without loss of control to be accounted for as an equity transaction, rather than giving rise to goodwill or a gain or loss.
Consequential amendments were made to IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows, IAS 12, Income Taxes, IAS 21, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, IAS 28, Investments in Associates, and IAS 31, Interests in Joint Ventures.
During 2008 and 2009, the IASB also issued amendments to IFRS 1, First Time Adoption of IFRS, IFRS 2, Share-Based Payment, IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and the results of its annual improvements project.
IFRIC interpretation 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, issued in 2008, has also been endorsed by the EU.
These are all applicable for the first time in the current accounting period and are now reflected in the Groups financial reporting, with no material impact other than on presentation as described in note 2 b.
Further amendments to IFRS 1, IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, and IAS 32, Financial Instruments Presentation, and the results of its next annual improvements project have been issued and endorsed by the EU, while other amendments to IFRS 1, IFRS 7, Financial Instruments Disclosures, and IAS 12 have been issued but have not yet been so endorsed.
These are applicable prospectively for accounting periods commencing 1 February 2010 or later, and are therefore not applicable for the current accounting period.
On adoption, they will not have any material impact on the Groups financial reporting.
In 2009, the IASB issued IFRS 9, Financial Instruments Classification and Measurement, followed by additional requirements on accounting for financial liabilities in 2010.
These are the first two parts of a replacement standard for IAS 39.
They are applicable prospectively for accounting periods commencing 1 January 2013 or later, and are therefore not applicable for the current accounting period.
IFRS 9 has not yet been endorsed by the EU but, on adoption, will require us to review the classification of certain financial instruments while allowing us to retain fair value measurement as we deem necessary.
We have not yet completed our assessment of its impact.
IFRIC interpretation 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, and an amendment to interpretation 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction, were issued during 2008 and 2009 and have been endorsed by the EU.
These are applicable prospectively for accounting periods commencing 1 July 2010 or later, and are therefore not applicable for the current accounting period.
On adoption, they will not have any impact on our financial reporting.
In accordance with IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts, the Group has applied existing accounting practices for insurance and participating investment contracts, modified as appropriate to comply with the IFRS framework and applicable standards.
Further details are given in policy F below.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured in the currency of the primary economic environment in which that entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are stated in sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Unless otherwise noted, the amounts shown in these financial statements are in millions of pounds sterling m. As supplementary information, consolidated financial information is also presented in euros.
The separate financial statements of the Company are on pages 306 to 314.
B Operating profit The long-term nature of much of the Groups operations means that, for managements decision-making and internal performance management, short-term realised and unrealised investment gains and losses are treated as non-operating items.
The Group focuses instead on an operating profit measure also referred to as adjusted operating profit that incorporates an expected return on investments supporting its long-term and non-long-term businesses.
Operating profit for long-term business is based on expected investment returns on financial investments backing shareholder and policyholder funds over the reporting period, with allowance for the corresponding expected movements in liabilities.
Variances between actual and expected investment returns, and the impact of changes in economic assumptions on liabilities, are disclosed separately outside operating profit.
For non-long-term business, the total investment income, including realised and unrealised gains, is analysed between that calculated using a longer-term return and shortterm fluctuations from that level.
Further details of this analysis and the assumptions used are given in notes 8 and 9.
C Critical accounting policies and the use of estimates The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to select accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect items reported in the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of financial position, other primary statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements.
