Financial statements IFRS 179 Performance review Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Derivative instruments for hedging On the date a derivative contract is entered into, the Group designates certain derivatives as either: i a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability fair value hedge ii a hedge of a future cash flow attributable to a recognised asset or liability, a highly probable forecast transaction or a firm commitment cash flow hedge : or iii a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge Hedge accounting is used for derivatives designated in this way, provided certain criteria are met.
At the inception of the transaction, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, as well as the risk management objective and the strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment of whether the hedge is expected to be, and has been, highly effective in offsetting the risk in the hedged item, both at inception and on an ongoing basis.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as net investment or cash flow hedges, and that prove to be highly effective in relation to the hedged risk, are recognised in other comprehensive income and a separate reserve within equity.
Gains and losses accumulated in this reserve are included in the income statement on disposal of the relevant investment or occurrence of the cash flow as appropriate.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges against assets carried at amortised cost are adjusted against the carrying value of the hedged asset to the extent those changes relate to the hedged risk.
This adjustment is then amortised to the income statement over the anticipated remaining life of the hedged instrument.
Where the hedge is against the value of AFS securities, changes in its value are recognised in the income statement, partially or wholly offset by a transfer from the investment valuation reserve for the change in value of the hedged item.
The Group discontinues hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
For a variety of reasons, certain derivative transactions, while providing effective economic hedges under the Groups risk management positions, do not qualify for hedge accounting under the specific IFRS rules and are therefore treated as derivatives held for trading.
Their fair value gains and losses are recognised immediately in other trading income.
U Loans Loans with fixed maturities, including policyholder loans, mortgage loans on investment property, securitised mortgages and collateral loans, are recognised when cash is advanced to borrowers.
The majority of these loans are carried at their unpaid principal balances and adjusted for amortisation of premium or discount, non-refundable loan fees and related direct costs.
These amounts are deferred and amortised over the life of the loan as an adjustment to loan yield using the effective interest rate method.
Loans with indefinite future lives are carried at unpaid principal balances or cost.
For certain mortgage loans, the Group has taken advantage of the revised fair value option under IAS 39 to present the mortgages, associated borrowings and derivative financial instruments at fair value, since they are managed as a portfolio on a fair value basis.
This presentation provides more relevant information and eliminates any accounting mismatch that would otherwise arise from using different measurement bases for these three items.
The fair values of mortgages classified as FV are estimated using discounted cash flow forecasts, based on a risk-adjusted discount rate which reflects the risks associated with these products, calibrated using the margins available on new lending or with reference to the rates offered by competitors.
They are revalued at each period end, with movements in their fair values being taken to the income statement.
At each reporting date, we review loans carried at amortised cost for objective evidence that they are impaired and uncollectable, either at the level of an individual security or collectively within a group of loans with similar credit risk characteristics.
To the extent that a loan is uncollectable, it is written down as impaired to its recoverable amount, measured as the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate of the loan, including any collateral receivable.
Subsequent recoveries in excess of the loans written-down carrying value are credited to the income statement.
V Collateral The Group receives and pledges collateral in the form of cash or non-cash assets in respect of stock lending transactions, as well as certain derivative contracts and loans, in order to reduce the credit risk of these transactions.
Collateral is also pledged as security for bank letters of credit.
The amount and type of collateral required depends on an assessment of the credit risk of the counterparty.
Collateral received in the form of cash, which is not legally segregated from the Group, is recognised as an asset in the statement of financial position with a corresponding liability for the repayment in financial liabilities note 50.
However, where the Group has a currently enforceable legal right of set-off, the collateral liability and associated derivative balances are shown net, in line with market practice.
Non-cash collateral received is not recognised in the statement of financial position unless the Group either sells or repledges these assets in the absence of default, at which point the obligation to return this collateral is recognised as a liability.
Collateral pledged in the form of cash, which is legally segregated from the Group, is derecognised from the statement of financial position with a corresponding receivable for its return.
Non-cash collateral pledged is not derecognised from the statement of financial position unless the Group defaults on its obligations under the relevant agreement, and therefore continues to be recognised in the statement of financial position within the appropriate asset classification.
W Deferred acquisition costs and other assets The costs directly attributable to the acquisition of new business for insurance and participating investment contracts excluding those written in the UK are deferred to the extent that they are expected to be recoverable out of future margins in revenues on these contracts.
For participating contracts written in the UK, acquisition costs are generally not deferred as the liability for these contracts is nd FRS 27.
For non-participating investment and investment fund calculated in accordance with the FSAs realistic capital regime a management contracts, incremental acquisition costs and sales enhancements that are directly attributable to securing an investment management service are also deferred.
