Governance 119 Performance review Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 6.
FSA Remuneration Code: Aviva Investors The FSA Remuneration Code does not apply to Avivas businesses with the exception of Aviva Investors and two small subsidiaries within the UK business.
The Company is in full compliance with the Codes requirements and expects Solvency II and other Europeanbased legislation to further define requirements in this area in the future.
Specifically, Aviva Investors policy on remuneration takes into account its status as a Tier 4 organisation as defined in the FSA Remuneration Code 2010, and as such is fully compliant with the Code.
Aviva Investors reward principles and arrangements are designed to accurately and appropriately incentivise and reward employees for achieving stated business goals in a manner that is consistent with our approach to sound and effective risk management.
Effective risk management is central to how the company and Aviva Investors perform and the risk profile of each business is also taken into account in compensation decisions.
The approach to performance and reward is designed to drive sustainable performance, ensuring that remuneration policies support the business strategy and long term interests of the Company.
Future actions and changes The Company does not anticipate any significant changes to the structure of EDs compensation packages in 2011, other than those outlined in section 2 and as detailed below: Changes to UK pension taxation Following announcements by the UK government during 2010, the Company is reviewing its approach to pension provisions for those employees whose pension contributions will exceed the newly reduced annual allowance and from April 2012, the newly reduced Lifetime Allowance.
The Company fully supports, where possible, the continued tax-efficient provision of retirement benefits.
In addition, the manner in which contributions to the Aviva Capital Accumulation Plan ACAP will be taxed is also changing.
In reviewing the ongoing retirement benefit plan changes, no arrangements will be entered into which materially increase the costs to the Company.
Any impact of these proposals that is experienced by the EDs will be disclosed in the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts.
Alignment with Group strategy and target setting The committee considers alignment between Group strategy and the remuneration of its senior executives, including EDs, to be critical.
It believes that senior executives should be highly rewarded on a market competitive basis for the delivery of stretching goals but should receive reduced rewards when the business performs poorly.
The pay and employment conditions of employees of the Company and the Group were also taken into account when determining directors remuneration for the financial year, in addition to the Group Reward policies and framework.
lignment Avivas remuneration package is leveraged, with a suitable percentage of pay at risk against the To achieve this a achievement of stretching goals, which is aligned with the Companys risk profile and employee behaviour.
Furthermore two-thirds of any bonus for EDs and EC members and any LTIP grants are delivered in the form of Aviva shares.
In 2010, the element of deferred bonus that is matched under the OATTV Plan only vests if very demanding Earnings Per Share EPS targets are met.
The requirements lue of executive remuneration to the to defer bonus, participation in the LTIP and the OATTV Plan closely tie the long-term va Companys share price performance.
Senior executives thus have high exposure to the same benefits and drawbacks of share price movement as all shareholders.
The belief that senior executives should be shareholders is reinforced through formal guidelines requiring EDs to build up and maintain a significant holding of shares in the Company.
Section 2 outlines the critical changes being implemented in 2011, following the Strategic Reward Review.
The committees considerations shown below relate to reward decisions made in 2010.
The Groups strategic priorities and targets are set out elsewhere in this report.
Those priorities are reflected closely in the remuneration package.
The committee also considers how, given changing economic circumstances, the Groups priorities, and consequently the targets underpinning its bonus structures, need to change.
Financial targets sit alongside targets on customer advocacy and employee engagement that the committee believes are critical to long-term organisational health.
The personal objectives of EC members are reviewed by the committee to ensure they adequately reflect the strategic aims of the Group, good governance and best practice.
Basic Salary: Internal and external equity in basic salary positioning is an important contributor to a motivational remuneration package.
A range of market data is used to inform decision making taking into account the Companys benchmarking policy with regard to the relevant FTSE market during 2010 and the new group of 25 FTSE companies either side of Avivas position for 2011 and beyond.
Annual Bonus Plan: Bonus structures are effective only if they drive, through the targets, the maintenance of the Company on a sound financial footing and sustained profitable growth.
In addition, the targets must not provide an incentive to promote behaviours which could be detrimental to the Companys long-term interests.
Management must justify the targets it recommends.
The committee is satisfied that the targets provide appropriate incentives, are sufficiently challenging, are aligned to shareholders interests and are within the Groups risk appetite.
OATTV Plan: This plan was introduced to reward the growth in EPS.
The plan, approved by shareholders in 2008, expired after the third annual grant.
Therefore, the awards made in 2010 were the last awards under the plan.
LTIP: The LTIP encourages a longer-term management focus on Return on Capital Employed ROCE and relative TSR.
These metrics measure how the Company is performing in both absolute and relative terms.
