Governance 135 Performance review Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 24.
Directors interests in Aviva shares The interests held by each person who was a director at the end of the financial year and their connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown in Table 24 below.
All the disclosed interests are beneficial.
The table also summarises the interests in shares held through the Companys various share incentive plans.
Details of the options and long-term incentive awards are shown below.
Shares are the directors beneficial holdings in the ordinary shares of the Company and in respect of the EDs include shares held in trust under the Companys AESOP being shares purchased by them under the partnership element and shares granted under the free share element.
In respect of Mark Hodges and Andrew Moss, it also includes the remaining restricted shares held in trust from their ABP awards, and for Patrick Regan it includes the remaining restricted shares held in trust from his RRSA and BRDSA awarded under the rules of the CFO Recruitment Share Awards Plan.
ABP relates to entitlements to shares arising through the Aviva Annual Bonus Plan.
Under these plans some of the earned bonuses are paid in the form of restricted shares or conditional shares and deferred for three years.
The transfer of the shares to the director at the end of the period is not subject to the attainment of performance conditions but a proportion of the shares can be forfeited if the executive leaves service before the end of the period.
In respect of Mark Hodges and Andrew Moss, these shares are restricted shares.
In respect of Patrick Regan, these shares represent the RRSA and BRDSA awarded under the rules of the CFO Recruitment Share Awards Plan and are restricted shares.
Awards granted under the LTIP which vest only if the performance conditions are achieved.
OATTV Plan awards are granted as a match to the bonus plan awards under the ABP and vest only if the performance conditions are achieved.
Options are options over shares granted under the SAYE and the Aviva Executive Share Option Plan 2005.
Patrick Regan was appointed as a director on 22 February 2010.
On this date he held no shares, awards or options.
7 These shares represent the RRSA and BRDSA awarded under the rules of the CFO Recruitment Share Awards Plan and are restricted shares.
These shares represent the OATTV awarded under the rules of the CFO Recruitment Share Awards Plan.
The interests of connected persons to the directors are included in the directors interests above The following changes to directors interests which relate to shares acquired each month under the partnership element of the AESOP during the period 1 January 2011 to 1 March 2011 have been reported to the Company.
Number of shares Mark Hodges 57
