Financial statements IFRS 305 Performance review Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 60 Related party transactions This note gives details of the transactions between Group companies and related parties which comprise our joint ventures, associates and staff pension schemes.
The Group receives income from related parties from transactions made in the normal course of business.
Loans to related parties are made on normal arms-length commercial terms.
Services provided to related parties 2010 2009 Income earned Receivable at Income Receivable at in year year end earned in year year end m m m m Associates 47 49 3 Joint ventures 18 375 17 327 Employee pension schemes 10 2 9 2 75 377 75 332 Income from associates predominantly relates to our investments in the Royal Bank of Scotland RBS life and collective investment companies prior to their restructuring described in note 3 a.
Under management service agreements with these associates, our UK life insurance companies provided administration services, the cost of which was recharged to the RBS companies.
In addition, our fund management companies provided fund management services to these associates, for which they charged fees based on the level of funds under management.
Movements in loans made to our associates may be found in note 19.
Transactions with joint ventures relate to the property management undertakings.
At 31 December 2010, there were 16 such joint ventures, the most material of which are listed in note 18 b.
Our interest in these joint ventures comprises a mix of equity and loans, together with the provision of administration services and financial management to many of them.
Our UK life insurance companies earn interest on loans advanced to these entities to fund property developments, including shopping, business and distribution centres, and properties in Europe, as well as a film studio development in the UK, movements in which may be found in note 18 a.
Our fund management companies also charge fees to these joint ventures for administration services and for arranging external finance.
Our UK fund management companies manage most of the assets held by the Groups main UK staff pension scheme, for which they charge fees based on the level of funds under management.
The main UK scheme and the Dutch scheme hold investments in Group-managed funds and insurance policies with other Group companies, as explained in note 48 e iii.
The related parties receivables are not secured and no guarantees were received in respect thereof.
The receivables will be settled in accordance with normal credit terms.
Details of guarantees, indemnities and warranties provided on behalf of related parties are given in note 52 h. Services provided by related parties There were no services provided by related parties in 2009 or 2010.
Key management compensation The total compensation to those employees classified as key management, being those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, including the executive and non-executive directors is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Salary and other short-term benefits 48 39 Post-employment benefits 8 5 Equity compensation plans 21 16 Termination benefits 4 1 Total 81 61 Information concerning individual directors emoluments, interests and transactions is given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
