142 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Limited liability partnerships classified as joint ventures Our principal objective in managing our liquidity and capital As part of their investment strategy, the UK and certain European resources is to maximise the return on capital to shareholders, long-term business policyholder funds have invested in a number while enabling us to pay the dividends, service our debt and our of property limited partnerships PLP, either directly or via holding companies cash flows.
In the context of a financial property unit trusts PUT, through a mix of capital and loans.
services company, where our working capital is largely The PLPs are managed by general partners GP, in which the representative of our liquidity, we believe our working capital is long-term business shareholder companies hold equity stakes sufficient for our present operational requirements.
For additional and which themselves hold nominal stakes in the PLPs.
The PUTs information, see Financial Statements IFRS Note 57 Risk are managed by a Group subsidiary.
Accounting for the PUTs and PLPs as subsidiaries, joint Extraordinary market conditions ventures or other financial investments depends on the Starting in mid-September 2008, the global financial markets shareholdings in the GPs and the terms of each partnership experienced unprecedented disruption, adversely affecting the agreement.
If a partnership is managed by a contractual business environment in general, as well as financial services arrangement agreement such that no party exerts control, companies in particular.
Markets have improved but continue to notwithstanding that the Groups partnership share or economic be fragile.
A return to adverse financial market conditions could interest in the PLP including its indirect stake via the relevant significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs and obtain PUT and GP may be greater than 50%, such PUTs and PLPs capital, although management believes that we have liquidity and have been classified as joint ventures.
Of the PLPs accounted capital resources to meet business requirements under current for as joint ventures at 31 December 2010, the Groups economic market conditions.
interest exceeded 50% in respect of one partnership, The Mall At 31 December 2010, total consolidated net cash and Limited Partnership, in which the Group had a 50.5% cash equivalents amounted to 24,698 million, an increase of economic interest.
Financial statements IFRS Note 18 Interests in, and loans Processes for monitoring and managing liquidity risk, to, joint ventures provides a list of PLPs accounted for as joint including liquidity stress models, have been enhanced to take into ventures, as well as summarised information on the revenue, account the extraordinary market conditions, including the impact expenses, assets and liabilities of the Groups interests in its joint on policyholder and counterparty behaviour, the ability to sell ventures in aggregate.
In respect of these PLPs, there are no various investment assets and the ability to raise incremental significant contingent liabilities to which we are exposed, nor do funding from various sources.
Management has taken steps to we have any significant contingent liabilities in relation to our strengthen liquidity in light of its assessment of the impact of interests in them.
External debt raised by the PLPs is secured on market conditions, such as issuing 200 million long-term their respective property portfolios, and the lenders are only subordinated debt in March 2009, and will continue to monitor entitled to obtain payment of both interest and principal to the the situation closely.
extent there are sufficient resources in the respective PLPs.
The lenders have no recourse whatsoever to the policyholder Management of capital resources and shareholders funds of any companies in the Aviva Group.
We seek to maintain an efficient capital structure using a At 31 December 2010, we had nil capital commitments to these combination of equity shareholders funds, preference capital, PLP joint ventures.
This structure is consistent with our risk profile and the regulatory and market requirements Liquidity and capital resources of our business.
Treasury function In managing our capital, we seek to: The treasury function of our business is managed by our Match the profile of our assets and liabilities, taking into centralised treasury team, headed by the group treasurer.
The account the risks inherent in each business: group treasurer acts as owner of Group policies for liquidity, Maintain financial strength to support new business growth derivatives and foreign exchange risk management within the while still satisfying the requirements of policyholders, Group risk governance and oversight framework.
Changes in regulators and rating agencies: policy require the agreement of the chief risk officer.
Significant Retain financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity, changes in policy require, in addition, the approval of the Assets access to a range of capital markets and significant and Liabilities Committee, the Executive Committee and then the unutilised committed credit lines: Risk and Regulatory Committee of the Board.
These policies are Allocate capital efficiently to support growth and repatriate independently implemented and monitored by each of our excess capital where appropriate: and businesses.
Our central treasury team is split into distinct Manage exposures to movements in exchange rates by functions: a Group team, which develops our overall treasury aligning the deployment of capital by currency with our strategy and our treasury team at Aviva Investors, which manages capital requirements by currency.
and monitors our treasury and cash flow positions for our holding companies.
Each business unit is responsible for monitoring its We are subject to a number of regulatory capital tests and employ own cash and liquidity positions, as well as its ongoing funding realistic scenario tests to allocate capital and manage risk.
It is our policy to make the majority of our impact of these regulatory capital tests on our ability to transfer financing arrangements at the parent company level for our capital around the Group through dividends and capital injections business units, primarily through external borrowings and equity is discussed later in this section under the headings Sources of offerings.
This enables us to achieve the efficiencies afforded by Liquidity and Capital injections.
Overall, the Group and its our collective size.
A number of our business units also raise debt subsidiaries satisfy all existing requirements and, as reported on their own behalf.
below, have significant resources and capital strength.
Shareholder information 143 Performance review Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information At 31 December 2010, the Group had 26.5 billion 31 December In January 2007, we issued $375 million of commercial paper, 2009: 24.0 billion of total capital employed in our trading which was used to repay senior debt in our US business.
In the operations which is financed by a combination of equity year ended 31 December 2006 we raised 442 million of new shareholders funds, preference capital, direct capital instruments, borrowings in order to fund the acquisition of AmerUs and repay subordinated debt and internal and external borrowings.
In 2010, the total capital employed increased by 2.5 billion.
At 31 December 2010, our total external borrowings, Over the period the Group has generated post tax profits and including subordinated debt and securitised mortgage loans, benefitted from actuarial gains on staff pension schemes.
Of the total borrowings 6.1 billion Financial statements IFRS Note 55 Group capital structure.
are considered to be core borrowings and are included within the In addition to external funding sources, we have a number of Groups capital employed.
The balance of 8.8 billion represents internal debt arrangements in place.
These have allowed the operational debt issued by operating subsidiaries.
We also have assets supporting technical liabilities to be invested into the pool substantial committed credit facilities available for our use.
of central assets for use across the Group.
They have also enabled At 31 December 2010, we had undrawn committed credit us to deploy cash from some parts of the business to others in facilities expiring within one year of 1.0 billion compared to order to fund growth.
Although intra-Group loans in nature, they 0.6 billion of such facilities at 31 December 2009, and are counted as part of the capital base for the purpose of capital 1.1 billion in credit facilities expiring after more than one year management.
All internal loans satisfy arms length criteria and all compared to 1.5 billion of such facilities at 31 December 2009. interest payments have been made when due.
Of these facilities, 1 billion was allocated in both 2010 and The presentation of internal lending arrangements depicts a 2009 to support our commercial paper programme.
net debt position which represents the upstream of internal Further information on the maturity profile, currency and loans from business operations to corporate and holding entities interest rate structure of our borrowings is presented in Financial net of tangible assets held by these entities.
The corporate net statements IFRS Note 49 Borrowings.
Commercial paper is liabilities represent the element of the pension scheme deficit issued for terms up to six months and is generally reissued at held centrally.
The earliest repayment date for other debt instruments is an 800 million subordinated debt instrument with a first call Management of debt date of 14 November 2011 at the option of the company.
At this Aviva plc is the principal financing vehicle in our centralised time Aviva will have the option of repaying the debt or accepting funding strategy.
Our senior debt obligations are supported by a step-up in the coupon and deferring repayment until 2021. guarantees from our principal non-life trading subsidiaries.
We The table below provides presents our debt position for the also manage our external debt in line with rating agency limits periods indicated: applicable for entities with a rating in the AA range.
We aim to maintain a balance of fixed and floating rate debt, and manage 2010 2009 m m the maturity of our borrowings and our undrawn committed Core structural borrowings facilities to avoid bunching of maturities.
We aim to maintain Subordinate debt 4,572 4,638 access to a range of funding sources, including the banking Debenture loans 851 368 market, the commercial paper market and the long-term debt Commercial paper 643 483 capital markets.
We issue debt in a variety of currencies, 6,066 5,489 predominantly sterling, euros and US dollars, based on investor Operating borrowings demand at the time of issuance and management of the Groups Amounts owed to credit institutions 2,550 2,182 Securitised mortgage loans 6,333 7,329 foreign exchange translation exposures in the statement of 8,883 9,511 financial position.
In November 2010, Delta Lloyd issued a 575 million senior Total 14,949 15,000 bond repayable in 2017 and 160 million of short term commercial paper.
In March 2009, we issued subordinated In both the UK and the Netherlands, we have raised non-recourse debt in two tranches comprising 200 million and 50 million, funding secured against books of mortgages.
This funding has both callable in 2014. been raised through the use of special purpose entities.
The In May 2008, we issued subordinated debt in two tranches beneficial interest in the books of mortgages has been passed to comprising 400 million callable in 2038, and 400 million these special purpose entities.
These entities, which are owned by callable in 2018.
We used 600 million sterling equivalent to independent trustees, have funded this transfer through the issue repay commercial paper denominated in various currencies.
August 2008, we issued a further 200 million, callable in 2038.
The value of the secured assets and the corresponding nonrecourse funding was 1,288 million in the UK and 5,045 million in the Netherlands.
In both cases, we continue to receive fees from these special purpose entities in respect of loan administration services.
In the Netherlands, we also receive payments under the terms of interest rate swaps which we have entered into with the special purpose entities.
These special purpose entities have been consolidated as we retain the residual interest in them.
The transactions and reasons for consolidation are discussed further within Financial statements IFRS Note 24 Securitised mortgages and related assets.
144 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 In addition to our external funding sources, we have a number Under UK company law, dividends can only be paid if a company of internal debt arrangements in place.
These allow the assets has distributable reserves sufficient to cover the dividend.
At supporting technical liabilities to be invested into a pool of central 31 December 2010, Aviva plc itself had distributable reserves of capital for use across the Group.
They also enable us to deploy 3,327 million, sufficient to pay dividends to our shareholders for cash from some parts of the business to others in order to fund three years based on historic dividend payments.
Although these are intra-Group loans, we count them largest operating subsidiary, distributable reserves, which could be as part of our capital base for the purpose of capital paid to Aviva plc via its intermediate holding company, are management.
We believe that all internal loans have been created mainly by the statutory long-term business profit transfer negotiated at market rates and are appropriately serviced.
to shareholders that occurs upon the declaration of bonuses to policyholders of with-profit products.
While the UK insurance Undrawn borrowings regulatory laws applicable to UK Life and our other UK At 31 December 2010, we had 2.1 billion undrawn committed subsidiaries impose no statutory restrictions on an insurers ability central borrowing facilities available to us, provided by a diverse to declare a dividend, the FSAs rules require maintenance of each range of 11 leading banks, all but one of which were rated AA.
insurance companys solvency margin, which might impact their We have allocated 1.0 billion to support the credit rating of ability to pay dividends to the parent company.
Our other life and Avivas commercial paper programme.
Undrawn borrowings general insurance, and fund management subsidiaries ability to are analysed below: pay dividends and make loans to the parent company is similarly restricted by local corporate or insurance laws and regulations.
For 2010 2009 example, the ability of our US insurance subsidiaries to provide m m inter-company loans is subject to state regulations which restrict Expiring within one year 975 600 the making of loans or require explicit regulatory approval.
In all Expiring beyond one year 1,135 1,510 jurisdictions, when paying dividends, the relevant subsidiary must Total 2,110 2,110 take into account its capital position and must set the level of dividend to maintain sufficient capital to meet minimum solvency Our committed central borrowing facilities have two financial requirements and any additional target capital expected by local covenants: regulators.
These minimum solvency requirements, which are Borrowings excluding non-recourse indebtedness may not consolidated under the European Insurance Group Directive, are exceed total shareholders funds.
At 31 December 2010 discussed later in this section under the heading Regulatory borrowings were 55% of total shareholders funds.
Our US subsidiaries are also subject to state laws Total shareholders funds to exceed 32% of non-life net that limit the dividends payable to the parent company and written premiums for the previous 12 months.
At 31 dividends in excess of these limitations generally require the December 2010 total shareholders funds were 161% of approval of the state insurance commissioner.
We do not believe non-life net written premiums.
that the legal and regulatory restrictions constitute a material limitation on the ability of our businesses to meet their obligations Total shareholders funds are defined as the aggregate of or to pay dividends to the parent company, Aviva plc.
nominal share capital of Aviva and the IFRS retained profits We have also received funds from the sale of parts of our and reserves, plus the value of in-force long-term business, on businesses.
For the year ended 31 December 2010 cash proceeds a consolidated basis.
from the disposal of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates net of cash transferred amounted to 54 million compared to 1,131 Sources of liquidity million for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Principal disposals In managing our cash flow position, we have a number of sources in 2010 and cash consideration received are disclosed in Financial of liquidity, including: statements IFRS Note 3 Subsidiaries.
dividends from operating subsidiaries: We have established two main programmes for the issuance external debt issuance: of external debt.
For short-term senior debt issuance we have a internal debt and central assets: and 2 billion commercial paper programme which allows debt to be funds generated by the sale of businesses.
issued in a range of currencies.
At 31 December 2010 the outstanding debt issued under this programme was 504 million.
One of our principal sources of liquidity is dividends from our For longer term debt we have established a Euro Medium subsidiaries.
The level of dividends is based on two primary Term Note EMTN programme.
This programme has factors: the financial performance and the local solvency and documentation readily available to allow quick issuance of longcapital requirements of our individual business units.
term debt with a variety of terms of conditions.
Debt issued under The table below shows the dividends received from our this programme may be senior guaranteed debt or regulatory principal operating subsidiaries in 2010: qualifying debt and may have a fixed or floating interest rate.
At 31 December 2010 the outstanding debt issued under this 2010 Amounts programme was 1,458 million.
received m Application of funds UK life insurance 190 UK general insurance We use funds to pay dividends to our shareholders, to service Aviva Investors 30 our debt and to pay our central Group cash flows.
France 123 In 2010, total cash paid by the Company as ordinary and Netherlands 72 Poland 67 preference dividends and coupon payments on direct capital Ireland 44 instrument amounted to 575 million, compared to 574 million Other Europe 39 in 2009.
Other operations 138 703 Shareholder information 145 Performance review Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Year ended 31 December 2009 In 2010, our total debt costs on central borrowings were Net cash from operating activities 324 million.
This compared to 334 million of interest paid on Total net cash from operating activities decreased by 5,410 central borrowings in 2009.
Total corporate centre expenses in million to 2,685 million in 2009 2008: 8,095 million.
The 2010 were 178 million compared to 159 million in 2009. decrease is due to lower pension and annuity sales, predominately An additional application of our funds is the acquisition of in the UK, and lower general insurance and health sales.
In 2010, cash paid for the acquisition of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates net of cash acquired amounted to Net cash used in investing activities 7 million, compared to 596 million in 2009.
Principal Net cash from investing activities decreased by 37 million to acquisitions in 2010 and cash consideration paid are disclosed 432 million utilised 2008: 395 million utilised.
in Financial statements IFRS Note 3 Subsidiaries.
Principal acquisitions and disposals in 2008 and cash consideration paid and received are disclosed in Financial Capital injections statements IFRS Note 3 Subsidiaries.
We make capital injections into our businesses where necessary to ensure that they meet their local solvency requirements and also Net cash out flow on financing activities to support development of their operations.
Capital is provided Net cash used in financing activities was 1,566 million lower at either by equity or, where a local holding company is in place, 571 million 2008: 2,137 million.
The decrease is a result of maybe via loans with the holding company subsequently injecting the proceeds from the IPO of our Dutch business Delta Lloyd, equity capital in the regulated operating company.
Each capital lower interest payments on borrowing and a decrease in ordinary injection is subject to review by our central Group Approvals dividends paid.
Committee and needs to meet our required internal rates of return.
To the extent capital injections are provided or funded by Net cash and cash equivalents regulated entities, then we have to consider the impact on At 31 December 2009, total consolidated net cash and cash regulatory capital of the capital injection.
Otherwise our ability equivalents amounted to 24,251 million, an increase of to make capital injections into our businesses is not materially 720 million over 23,531 million in 2008. limited by applicable legal and regulatory restrictions.
Total capital injections into the business units were 333 million and Currency 612 million in 2010 and 2009 respectively.
Our exposures to movements in exchange rates and the management of these exposures is detailed in Performance Consolidated cash flows review Financial and operating performance Exchange rate The cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at banks and in fluctuations.
hand, deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to Regulatory capital position known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant Individual regulated subsidiaries measure and report solvency risk of change in value.
based on applicable local regulations, including in the UK the For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash regulations established by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
equivalents also include bank overdrafts, which are included in These measures are also consolidated under the European payables and other financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
Insurance Groups Directive IGD to calculate regulatory capital adequacy at an aggregate group level, where we have a Year ended 31 December 2010 regulatory obligation to have a positive position at all times.
Net cash from operating activities This measure represents the excess of the aggregate value of Total net cash from operating activities decreased by 878 million regulatory capital employed in our business over the aggregate to 1,807 million in 2010 2009: 2,685 million.
The decrease is minimum solvency requirements imposed by local regulators, due to lower investment income and higher claims in the longexcluding the surplus held in the UK and Ireland with-profit life term business segment.
The minimum solvency requirement for our European businesses is based on the Solvency 1 Directive.
In broad terms, Net cash used in investing activities for EU operations, this is set at 4% and 1% of non-linked and Net cash from investing activities increased by 796 million to unit-linked life reserves respectively and for our general insurance 364 million 2009: 432 million utilised.
The increase is a result portfolio of business is the higher of 18% of gross premiums or of a 930 million reclassification within the statement of cash 26% of gross claims, in both cases adjusted to reflect the level of flows described further in note 2 b.
The underlying increase is a reinsurance recoveries.
For our major non-European businesses result of cash and cash equivalents acquired as part of the RBS the US, and Canada a risk charge on assets and liabilities Life acquisition described further in note 3 a. approach is used.
Net cash out flow on financing activities European Insurance Groups Directive Net cash used in financing activities was 797 million higher at 1,368 million 2009: 571 million.
The increase is a result of UK Life Other funds business 2010 2009 a 930 million reclassification within the statement of cash bn bn bn bn flows described further in note 2 b.
The underlying decrease Insurance Groups Directive IGD of 133 million reflects higher interest payments partially offset capital resources 6.0 10.3 16.3 15.7 Less: capital resource requirement by a lower net drawdown of borrowings.
CRR 6.0 6.5 12.5 11.2 Insurance Groups Directive IGD Net cash and cash equivalents excess solvency 3.8 3.8 4.5 At 31 December 2010, total consolidated net cash and cash Cover of EU minimum calculated equivalents amounted to 24,695 million, an increase of excluding UK Life funds 1.6 times 1.7 times 444 million over 24,251 million in 2009.
146 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The EU Insurance Groups Directive IGD regulatory capital solvency surplus has decreased by 0.7 billion since 31 December 2010 to 3.8 billion.
The key movements over the period are set out in the following table: bn IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2009 4.5 Operating profits net of income and other expenses 1.0 Dividends net of scrip 0.5 Market movements including foreign exchange 0.2 Pension scheme funding 0.3 Increase in Capital Resource Requirement 0.3 Acquisitions River Road and other small transactions 0.2 Other 0.2 Estimated IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2010 3.8 Capital commitments Contractual commitments for acquisitions or capital expenditures of investment property, property and equipment and intangible assets, which have not been recognised in our consolidated financial statements, are as follows: 2010 2009 2008 m m m Investment property 63 66 7 Property and equipment 160 255 108 Intangible assets 4 23 Total 223 325 138 Contractual obligations for future repairs and maintenance on investment properties are 1 million 2009: 1 million, 2008: 1 million.
We have capital commitments to our joint ventures of nil 2008: nil, 2007: nil and to other investment vehicles of nil million 2008: 33 million, 2008: 48 million.
These commitments are expected to be funded through operational cash flow without recourse to core structural borrowings.
