Governance 115 Performance review Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Directors remuneration report Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Highlights During 2010, the Company undertook a Strategic Reward Review which was overseen by the Remuneration Committee and which comprehensively examined all elements of senior executive remuneration.
This has allowed the Company to put to the 2011 Annual General Meeting proposals that reflect a thorough review of the Companys remuneration package taking into account changing market and regulatory practice and the requirement to ensure that the package remains competitive.
Details of these proposals are outlined in Section 2 of this report.
The highlights of the changes are: Fully revised remuneration principles: Revised benchmarking group: Simplified annual bonus structure: Competitive Long Term Incentive Plans: and New share ownership requirements.
The committee approved the executive directors EDs request to freeze their basic salaries for 2010, for the second year in a row.
The financial and non-financial targets set for the 2010 annual bonus were met in part during the year.
The combination of financial outcomes, along with those targets relating to employees, customers, and personal objectives mean the group chief executive received a 2010 bonus of 74.3% of his maximum opportunity 2009: 74.2%.
On 26 January 2010, Philip Scott retired from the Board.
He continued to be employed by the Group until his retirement in July 2010.
Further details of his leaving arrangements are disclosed in this report.
On 22 February 2010, Patrick Regan, chief financial officer, joined Aviva and the Board.
Therefore, full information on his remuneration appears in this report for the first time.
On 19 January 2011, Andrea Moneta resigned from the Board and left the Company on 28 February 2011.
Details of his leaving arrangements are disclosed in this report.
On 19 January 2011, Igal Mayer was appointed as chief executive, Aviva Europe and joined the Board.
A summary of his annual remuneration is included in this report.
Introduction This report sets out the details of the remuneration policy for the Companys directors, describes its implementation and discloses the amounts paid in 2010.
In addition to meeting statutory requirements, particularly the regulations on directors remuneration reports made under the Companies Act 2006, the committee has complied with best practice guidelines, including guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds, in producing this report.
Relevant sections of this report have been audited in accordance with the legislation.
This report covers the following: The committees objectives, membership and main activities in 2010: A review of Avivas remuneration policy and practice: Commentary on the alignment between remuneration, risk and Avivas business strategy and objectives: Details of the terms of executive directors EDs service contracts: Avivas share ownership policy with respect to EDs: Avivas policy on external board appointments: Avivas UK all employee share plans and share incentive plans: Avivas position against dilution limits: Remuneration of the non-executive directors NEDs, and: Tables summarising the 2010 position on: Directors remuneration EDs pension arrangements Share incentive plans Directors interests in shares 2.
Strategic Reward Review Throughout 2010 the Company conducted a comprehensive review of senior executive remuneration.
This was last conducted in 2005.
The objectives of the review were: To ensure remuneration is optimally designed to attract and retain senior executives To ensure remuneration is aligned with, and incentivise the achievement of, our strategic business aims whilst ensuring appropriate risk taking To benchmark total compensation against suitable comparator groups to ensure remuneration is appropriately positioned against market To ensure our reward plans comply with regulatory requirements The review was led by the committee with input from the Human Resources function and senior management.
In addition to the internal resources, market benchmarking and external commentary was provided by Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS primarily to the committee and  PwC primarily to management.
During the review, the committee and management agreed a set of Remuneration Principles and Remuneration Framework to be applied throughout the Company.
These were then used to help guide the conclusions and remuneration structures which will be rolled out in 2011.
116 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Whilst the Financial Services Authoritys FSA Remuneration Code does not directly apply to Aviva plc see section 6, both the committee and management have been very mindful of the external environment that has been the focus of many regulators across the globe.
In particular, careful attention has been paid to the overall gearing of total remuneration which will reduce in 2011 and the impact that risk has on each element of reward.
The Strategic Reward Review concluded in December 2010 and the proposals outlined below will be fully implemented in 2011.
Key changes from Strategic Reward Review: to be implemented from 2011 The implementation of the Remuneration Principles above, has led to a range of changes to the remuneration elements across the Company.
The critical changes and a summary of how these changes impact the group chief executive and the other EDs is shown below: Revised benchmarking group: Since the previous reward review in 2005, the relevant benchmarking group for considering total compensation has been the lower quartile to median of the FTSE 30 and the median to upper quartile of the FTSE 50.
The committee has decided to benchmark against a more sustainable peer group, ie.
the median of a range of companies that are centered on Aviva.
Therefore, our total compensation benchmark position from 2011 will be the 25 FTSE companies either side of Avivas market capitalisation.
The absolute peer group will be reviewed annually based on the most up to date market data available.
Simplified annual bonus structure: In 2010, and in prior years, the financial component of the annual bonus which comprises 50% of the total annual bonus opportunity had multiple typically seven Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
In order to help drive a reward and performance culture, the number of KPIs will be ideally kept to a maximum of four.
These will be disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts following the relevant year end and will endeavour to reflect all relevant outcomes, behaviors and risk management actions sought by the Board.
Competitive Long Term Incentive Plans: As previously agreed by shareholders at the 2008 AGM, the 2010 One Aviva Twice the Value OATTV bonus award was the last award under the plan.
Therefore no OATTV award will be made in 2011.
The committee has carefully reviewed the total compensation benchmarking data and proposed revised standard long term incentive awards to ensure our packages remain competitive within the relevant market place, as well as representing value for the shareholder.
New share ownership requirements: The share ownership requirement of the group chief executive will be increasing from 175% to 200% of basic salary.
In addition, members of the Executive Committee EC who are not EDs will also see the introduction of a 50% of basic salary share ownership requirement.
In line with common market practice, no time limit will now be set in order for any member of the EC to meet these requirements.
Instead 50% and 25% of the EDs and EC members respective share plan releases will be required to be held until such time as their requirement is met.
Table 1: Strategic Reward Reviews key changes to each element of remuneration for the EDs Remuneration Element 2010 included in this report From 2011 Basic Salary Total Remuneration Lower quartile to median of the FTSE 30 and the By reference to the median of 25 FTSE companies benchmarking group Median to upper quartile of the FTSE 50 either side of Avivas market capitalisation Annual Bonus Target 75% of basic salary Unchanged target and maximum opportunity Maximum 150% basic salary Financial measures limited to four, where possible Multiple financial measures No change to deferral arrangements Two-thirds deferred into shares for three years One Aviva Twice the Value CEO: Matches 100% of the deferred annual bonus Plan expired in 2010, as originally approved by ED: Matches 75% of the deferred annual bonus shareholders in 2008 Long Term Incentive CEO: 175% standard award CEO: 275% standard award EDs: 150% standard award EDs: 225% standard award Performance measures: 50% Total Return MCEV Performance measures: 50%Operating IFRS ROCE, ROCE, 50% Relative TSR 50% Relative TSR 30% vests for threshold performance IFRS ROCE is considered a more stable balance sheet measure 20% vests for threshold performance Share Ownership Requirement CEO: 175% of basic salary CEO: 200% of basic salary EDs: 150% of basic salary EDs: 150% of basic salary To be fulfilled five years from date of appointment EC: 50% of basic salary EDs must retain 50% of net share plan releases EC 25% until requirement is met
