Financial statements IFRS 297 Performance review Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 57 Risk management continued The vast majority of the Groups general insurance business is managed and priced in the same country as the domicile of the customer.
Management of general insurance risks Significant insurance risks will be reported through the risk management framework.
Additionally, the ICA is used to assess the risks that each general insurance business unit, and the Group as a whole, is exposed to, quantifying their impact and calculating appropriate capital requirements.
Increasingly risk-based capital models are being used to support the quantification of risk under the ICA framework.
All general insurance business units undertake a quarterly review of their insurance risks, the output from which is a key input into the ICA and risk-based capital assessments.
The General Insurance Committee monitors and develops the management of insurance risk in the general insurance business units, and assesses the aggregate risk exposure.
It is responsible for the development, implementation and review of the Group policies for underwriting, claims, reinsurance and reserving that operate within the risk management framework.
Business units have developed mechanisms that identify, quantify and manage accumulated exposures to contain them within the limits of the appetite of the Group.
The Group has pioneered various developments, such as the Aviva UK Digital Flood Map to effectively manage exposures arising from specific perils.
Where appropriate such projects are employed throughout the business units to promote the adoption of best practice as standard.
General insurance claims reserving Actuarial claims reserving is conducted by local actuaries in the various general insurance business units according to the General Insurance Reserving policy.
The General Insurance Committee monitors and maintains the General Insurance Reserving policy, and conducts quarterly reviews of the Groups general insurance claims provisions, and their adequacy.
The reviews include peer reviews of the business units own conclusions as well as independent analysis to confirm the reasonableness of the local reviews.
The adequacy of the Groups general insurance claims provisions is ultimately overseen by the General Insurance Committee.
A number of business units also have periodic external reviews by local consultant actuaries often as part of the local regulatory requirement.
Reinsurance strategy Significant reinsurance purchases are reviewed annually at both business unit and Group level, to verify that the levels of protection being bought reflect any developments in exposure and the risk appetite of the Group.
Reinsurance purchases must be in line with the strategy set out in our General Insurance Reinsurance policy.
The basis of these purchases is underpinned by extensive financial and capital modelling and actuarial analysis to optimise the cost and capital efficiency benefits from our reinsurance programme.
For the larger business units, this involves utilising externally sourced probabilistic models to verify the accumulations and loss probabilities based on the Groups specific portfolios of business.
Where external models are not available, scenarios are developed and tested using the Groups data to determine potential losses and appropriate levels of reinsurance protection.
The reinsurance is placed with providers who meet the Groups counterparty security requirements, and large reinsurance placements may also require approval from the Asset Liability Committee.
Concentration risk Processes are in place to manage catastrophe risk in individual business units and at a Group level.
The Group cedes much of its worldwide catastrophe risk to third-party reinsurers but retains a pooled element for its own account gaining diversification benefit.
The total Group potential loss from its most concentrated catastrophe exposure zone Northern Europe is approximately 300 million, for a one in ten year annual loss scenario, compared to approximately 550 million when measured on a one in a hundred year annual loss scenario.
For the 2010 underwriting year the Group participated in a share of a reinsurers US property catastrophe reinsurance portfolio.
As this exposure does not correlate with the Groups other general insurance exposures this provided a strategic opportunity to diversify the general insurance portfolio with a risk that had a high expected profit margin but also a high potential for loss.
The modelled loss from a one in ten year annual loss scenario was 55 million compared to approximately 160 million when measured on a one in a hundred year annual loss scenario.
As a result of better than normal experience the arrangement delivered above average underwriting returns in 2010.
Notwithstanding the good return in 2010, we have renewed the arrangement in 2011 on a reduced scale reflecting expected market conditions.
The total expected loss from a one in ten year annual loss scenario is 40 million compared to approximately 100 million when measured on a one in hundred year annual loss scenario.
f Operational risk Types of operational risk Operational risk is the risk of loss, arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, or from people and systems, or from external events.
Operational risks include business protection, information technology, people, legal and regulatory compliance risks.
Operational risk management We process a large number of complex transactions across numerous and diverse products, and are highly dependent on the proper functioning of information technology and communications systems.
We are partially reliant on the operational processing performance of our outsourced partners including certain servicing and IT functions.
The long-term nature of our business means that accurate records have to be maintained for significant periods.
Significant resources are devoted to maintaining efficient and effective operations within our framework of corporate responsibility, policies and business ethics code.
