106 Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a valuable Share capital and control opportunity for the Board to communicate with private The information required to be provided by the directors pursuant shareholders.
At the meeting, the Company complies with the to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 can be found on page Combined Code as it relates to voting, the separation of 97 of the Directors Report.
resolutions and the attendance of Board committee chairmen.
Whenever possible, all directors attend the Annual General Communication with shareholders Meeting and shareholders are invited to ask questions related to The Company places considerable importance on communication the business of the meeting during the meeting and have an with shareholders and engages with them on a wide range of opportunity to meet with the directors following the conclusion issues.
In line with the Combined Code, details of proxy The Group has an ongoing programme of dialogue and voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, are made meetings between the executive directors and institutional available on request and are placed on the Companys website investors, fund managers and analysts.
At these meetings a following the meeting.
wide range of relevant issues including strategy, performance, The Companys Annual Report and Accounts together with management and governance are discussed within the constraints the Companys Half-year Report, interim management of information already made public.
statements, reports on Form 20F for filing with the United States The Companys investor relations department is dedicated to Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and other public facilitating communication with institutional investors.
The announcements, are designed to present a balanced and directors consider it important to understand the views of understandable view of the Groups activities and prospects and shareholders and, in particular, any issues which concern them.
are available on the Companys website, ww.
com investorThe Board receives reports on matters that have been raised with relations results-and-reports.
The Chairmans statement, group management at the regular meetings held with the Companys chief executives review and Performance review provide an major investors.
During the year, the chairman and the senior assessment of the Groups affairs and they will be supported by a independent director held a meeting with the major institutional presentation to be made at the Annual General Meeting, which investors and attended investor meetings with management.
In can also be viewed by webcast on the Companys website at addition, the senior independent director is available to meet with www.
com agm after the meeting.
major investors to discuss any areas of concern that cannot be resolved through normal channels of investor communication, Aviva Investors and arrangements can be made to meet with the senior Aviva Investors, the Groups core asset management company, independent director through the group company secretary.
considers good governance to play an important role in Similarly, arrangements can be made for major investors to meet protecting and enhancing shareholder value.
In keeping with with newly appointed directors.
In addition, the Board consults the Groups values, Aviva Investors looks to act as a responsible with shareholders in connection with specific issues where it investor, monitors the governance of the companies in which considers appropriate.
This year the Board, through the it invests and seeks to maintain an effective dialogue and Remuneration Committee chairman, has consulted with engagement with companies on matters which may affect institutional investors on the introduction of new share plans shareholder interests and the future performance of those which will be put to shareholders at this years Annual General companies.
Aviva Investors applies and complies with the UK Stewardship The Board is equally interested in the concerns of private Code maintained by the Financial Reporting Council and has shareholders and, on its behalf, the group company secretary published detailed Stewardship and Corporate Governance and oversees communication with this group of investors.
The Voting Policies as part of its investment strategy, which underpin Company has a dedicated email address to which questions can its approach to engaging and voting at company general be sent, in addition to the facility on the Companys website, meetings.
These policies encompass social, environmental and which are both highlighted in the shareholder information section ethical issues and are applied pragmatically after careful of the Notice of AGM.
These can be used by shareholders to put consideration of all relevant information.
In addition, Aviva relevant questions, related to the business of the meeting, to the Investors makes detailed voting reports available to clients, directors.
These are considered to be particularly helpful for those as well as providing some summary reporting on its website, shareholders who are unable to attend the Annual General www.
Written responses are provided through a leaflet containing answers to the most frequently asked questions, which New York Stock Exchange listing requirements is also placed on the Companys website, www.
com agm The Company was admitted to the New York Stock Exchange and available at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
All material NYSE on 20 October 2009 and its ordinary shares are traded as information reported to the regulatory news service is American Depositary Shares.
As a foreign company listed on the simultaneously published on the Companys website, affording NYSE, the Company is required to comply with the NYSE all shareholders full access to material Company announcements.
corporate governance rules to the extent that these rules apply to The Company has taken full advantage of the provisions foreign private issuers such as Aviva plc.
As a foreign private within the Companies Act 2006 allowing communications to issuer, the Company is therefore required to comply with NYSE be made electronically to shareholders where they have not Rule 303A.
11 by making a disclosure of the differences between requested hard copy documentation.
As a result, the the Companys corporate governance practices and the NYSE Companys website has become the primary method of corporate governance rules applicable to US companies listed on communication for the majority of its shareholders.
These differences are summarised below: the information available for shareholders on the website can be found in the Shareholder Services section on page 360 and the Shareholder Services section of the website at www.
