Financial statements MCEV 321 Performance review Aviva plc MCEV financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information E1 Basis of preparation The condensed consolidated income statement and condensed consolidated statement of financial position on pages 316 to 318 present the Groups results and financial position for the life and related businesses on the Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV basis and for its non-life businesses on the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS basis.
The MCEV methodology adopted is in accordance with the MCEV Principles published by the CFO Forum in October 2009.
The directors consider that the MCEV methodology gives useful insight into the drivers of financial performance of the Groups life and related businesses.
This basis values future cash flows from assets consistently with market prices, including more explicit allowance for the impact of uncertainty in future investment returns and other risks.
Embedded value is also consistent with the way pricing is assessed and the business is managed.
The results for 2010 and 2009 have been audited by our auditors, Ernst & Young.
Their report in respect of 2010 can be found on page 352 in the Report and Accounts.
Covered business The MCEV calculations cover the following lines of business: life insurance, long-term health and accident insurance, savings, pensions and annuity business written by our life insurance subsidiaries, including managed pension fund business and our share of the other life and related business written in our associated undertakings and joint ventures, as well as the equity release business written in the UK.
Covered business includes the Groups share of our joint ventures including our arrangement with The Royal Bank of Scotland Group RBSG and our associated undertakings in India, China, Turkey, Malaysia, Taiwan and South Korea.
In addition, the results of group companies providing significant administration, fund management and other services and of group holding companies have been included to the extent that they relate to covered business.
Together these businesses are referred to as Life and related businesses.
New business premiums New business premiums include: premiums arising from the sale of new contracts during the period: non-contractual additional premiums: and expected renewals on new contracts and expected future contractual alterations to new contracts.
The Groups definition of new business under MCEV includes contracts that meet the definition of non-participating investment contracts under IFRS.
For products sold to individuals, premiums are considered to represent new business where a new contract has been signed, or where underwriting has been performed.
Renewal premiums include contractual renewals, non-contractual variations that are reasonably predictable and recurrent single premiums that are pre-defined and reasonably predictable.
For Group products, new business includes new contracts and increases to aggregate premiums under existing contracts.
Renewal premiums are based on the level of premium received during the reporting period and allow for premiums expected to be received beyond the expiry of any guaranteed premium rates.
Life and pensions operating earnings For life and pensions operating earnings, Aviva uses normalised investment returns.
The use of asset risk premia reflects managements long-term expectations of asset returns in excess of the swap yield from investing in different asset classes.
The normalised investment return on equities and property has been calculated by reference to the ten year swap rate in the relevant currency plus an appropriate risk premium.
The expected return on bonds has been calculated by reference to the swap rate consistent with the duration of the backing assets in the relevant currency plus an appropriate risk margin equivalent to the gross redemption yield less an allowance for defaults.
From 2010, Aviva has changed the approach to calculating expected returns within operating profit.
The expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate is now calculated using the implied discount rates IDR, which itself is based on the normalised investment returns.
The revised methodology applies the IDR to the Value of In Force VIF and Required Capital RC components of the MCEV and adds to this the total expected return for Free Surplus FS to derive the total expected return, in a manner consistent with that previously used under European Embedded Value reporting.
This total is presented as the expected existing business contribution reference rate, expected existing business contribution in excess of reference rate and expected return on shareholders net worth grossed up for tax for pre-tax presentation, with only the excess contribution being impacted by the change.
The change to expected returns has no impact on total return or on the closing balance sheet.
322 Aviva plc MCEV financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 E1 Basis of preparation continued MCEV methodology Overview Under the MCEV methodology, profit is recognised as it is earned over the life of products defined within covered business.
The total profit recognised over the lifetime of a policy is the same as under the IFRS basis of reporting, but the timing of recognition is different.
Calculation of the embedded value The shareholders interest in the life and related businesses is represented by the embedded value.
The embedded value is the total of the net worth of the life and related businesses and the value of in-force covered business.
Calculations are performed separately for each business and are based on the cash flows of that business, after allowing for both external and intra-group reinsurance.
Where one life business has an interest in another, the net worth of that business excludes the interest in the dependent company.
The embedded value is calculated on an after-tax basis applying current legislation and practice together with future known changes.
Where gross results are presented, these have been calculated by grossing up post-tax results at the full rate of corporation tax for each country based on opening period tax rates, apart from the US, where a nil tax rate was used for the 2009 post-tax results, and consequently for grossing up.
Net worth The net worth is the market value of the shareholders funds and the shareholders interest in the surplus held in the non-profit component of the long-term business funds, determined on a statutory solvency basis and adjusted to add back any non-admissible assets, and consists of the required capital and free surplus.
Required capital is the market value of assets attributed to the covered business over and above that required to back liabilities for covered business, for which distribution to shareholders is restricted.
Required capital is reported net of implicit items permitted on a local regulatory basis to cover minimum solvency margins which are assessed at a local entity level.
The level of required capital for each business unit is set equal to the higher of: The level of capital at which the local regulator is empowered to take action: The capital requirement of the business unit under the Groups economic capital requirements: and The target capital level of the business unit.
This methodology reflects the level of capital considered by the directors to be appropriate to manage the business, and includes any additional shareholder funds not available for distribution, such as the reattributed inherited estate in the UK.
The same definition of required capital is used for both existing and new business.
The free surplus is the market value of any assets allocated to, but not required to support, the in-force covered business at the valuation date.
The level of required capital across the business units expressed as a percentage of the EU minimum solvency margin or equivalent can be found in E18.
Value of in-force covered business VIF The value of in-force covered business consists of the following components: present value of future profits: time value of financial options and guarantees: frictional costs of required capital: and cost of residual non-hedgeable risks.
Present value of future profits PVFP This is the present value of the distributable profits to shareholders arising from the in-force covered business projected on a best estimate basis.
Distributable profits generally arise when they are released following actuarial valuations.
These valuations are carried out in accordance with any local statutory requirements designed to ensure and demonstrate solvency in long-term business funds.
Future distributable profits will depend on experience in a number of areas such as investment return, discontinuance rates, mortality, administration costs, as well as management and policyholder actions.
Releases to shareholders arising in future years from the in-force covered business and associated required capital can be projected using assumptions of future experience.
Future profits are projected using best estimate non-economic assumptions and market consistent economic assumptions.
In principle, each cash flow is discounted at a rate that appropriately reflects the riskiness of that cash flow, so higher risk cash flows are discounted at higher rates.
In practice, the PVFP is calculated using the certainty equivalent approach, under which the reference rate is used for both the investment return and the discount rate.
This approach ensures that asset cash flows are valued consistently with the market prices of assets without options and guarantees.
Further information on the risk-free rates is given in note E18.
The PVFP includes the capitalised value of profits and losses arising from subsidiary companies providing administration, investment management and other services to the extent that they relate to covered business.
This is referred to as the look through into service company expenses.
In addition, expenses arising in holding companies that relate directly to acquiring or maintaining covered business have been allowed for.
Where external companies provide services to the life and related businesses, their charges have been allowed for in the underlying projected cost base.
Financial statements MCEV 323 Performance review Aviva plc MCEV financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information E1 Basis of preparation continued US capital solutions Credit has been taken within the 2010 US embedded value, and value of new business, for the anticipated reduction in capital requirements based on managements intention to enact transactions which allow recognition of additional assets that can be held against certain reserves, reducing shareholder capital requirements.
Similar transactions, which are effectively based upon a parental guarantee that sufficient capital resources would be available if required, have been enacted for business written between 2006 and 2009.
Previously credit has been taken for equivalent capital solution transactions only after they have been formally enacted.
Time value of financial options and guarantees TVOG The PVFP calculation is based on a single base economic scenario: however, a single scenario cannot appropriately allow for the effect of certain product features.
If an option or guarantee affects shareholder cash flows in the base scenario, the impact is included in the PVFP and is referred to as the intrinsic value of the option guarantee: however, future investment returns are uncertain and the actual impact on shareholder profits may be higher or lower.
The value of in-force business needs to be adjusted for the impact of the range of potential future outcomes.
Stochastic modelling techniques can be used to assess the impact of potential future outcomes, and the difference between the intrinsic value and the total stochastic value is referred to as the time value of the option or guarantee.
Stochastic modelling typically involves projecting the future cash flows of the business under thousands of economic scenarios that are representative of the possible future outcomes for market variables such as interest rates and equity returns.
Under a market consistent approach, the economic scenarios generated reflect the markets tendency towards risk aversion.
Allowance is made, where appropriate, for the effect of management and or policyholder actions in different economic conditions on future assumptions such as asset mix, bonus rates and surrender rates.
Stochastic models are calibrated to market yield curves and volatility levels at the valuation date.
Tests are performed to confirm that the scenarios used produce results that replicate the market price of traded instruments.
Where evidence exists that persistency rates are linked to economic scenarios, dynamic lapse assumptions are set that vary depending on the individual scenarios.
This cost is included in the TVOG.
Dynamic lapses are modelled for parts of the UK, US and French businesses.
Asymmetries in non-economic assumptions that are linked to economic scenarios, but that have insufficient evidence for credible dynamic assumptions, are allowed for within mean best estimate assumptions.
Frictional costs of required capital The additional costs to a shareholder of holding the assets backing required capital within an insurance company rather than directly in the market are called frictional costs.
They are explicitly deducted from the PVFP.
The additional costs allowed for are the taxation costs and any additional investment expenses on the assets backing the required capital.
The level of required capital has been set out above in the net worth section.
Frictional costs are calculated by projecting forwards the future levels of required capital.
Tax on investment return and investment expenses are payable on the assets backing required capital, up until the point that they are released to shareholders.
Cost of residual non-hedgeable risks CNHR The cost of residual non-hedgeable risks CNHR covers risks not already allowed for in the time value of options and guarantees or the PVFP.
The allowance includes the impact of both non-hedgeable financial and non-financial risks.
The most significant risk not included in the PVFP or TVOG is operational risk.
Asymmetric risks allowed for in the TVOG or PVFP are described earlier in the basis of preparation.
No allowance has been made within the cost of non-hedgeable risk for symmetrical risks as these are diversifiable by investors.
Participating business Future regular bonuses on participating business are projected in a manner consistent with current bonus rates and expected future market-consistent returns on assets deemed to back the policies.
For with-profit funds in the UK and Ireland, for the purpose of recognising the value of the estate, it is assumed that terminal bonuses are increased to exhaust all of the assets in the fund over the future lifetime of the in-force with-profit policies.
However, under stochastic modelling there may be some extreme economic scenarios when the total assets in the Groups with-profit funds are not sufficient to pay all policyholder claims.
The average additional shareholder cost arising from this shortfall has been included in the TVOG.
For profit-sharing business in continental Europe, where policy benefits and shareholder value depend on the timing of realising gains, the apportionment of unrealised gains between policyholders and shareholders reflect contractual requirements as well as existing practice.
Under certain economic scenarios where additional shareholder injections are required to meet policyholder payments, the average additional cost has been included in the TVOG.
324 Aviva plc MCEV financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 E1 Basis of preparation continued The embedded value of the US spread-based products anticipates the application of management discretion allowed for contractually within the policies, subject to contractual guarantees.
This includes the ability to change the crediting rates and indexed strategies available within the policy.
Consideration is taken of the economic environment assumed in future projections and returns in excess of the reference rate are not assumed.
Anticipated market and policyholder reaction to management action has been considered.
The anticipated management action is consistent with current decision rules and has been approved and signed off by management and legal counsel.
Consolidation adjustments The effect of transactions between Group life companies such as loans and reinsurance arrangements have been included in the results split by territory in a consistent manner.
No elimination is required on consolidation.
As the MCEV methodology incorporates the impact of profits and losses arising from subsidiary companies providing administration, investment management and other services to the Groups life companies, the equivalent profits and losses have been removed from the relevant segment non-insurance or fund management and are instead included within the results of life and related businesses.
In addition, the underlying basis of calculation for these profits has changed from the IFRS basis to the MCEV basis.
The capitalised value of the future profits and losses from such service companies are included in the embedded value and value of new business calculations for the relevant business, but the net assets representing historical profits and other amounts remain under non-insurance or fund management.
In order to reconcile the profits arising in the financial period within each segment with the assets on the opening and closing statement of financial positions, a transfer of IFRS profits from life and related business to the appropriate segment is deemed to occur.
An equivalent approach has been adopted for expenses within our holding companies.
The assessments of goodwill, intangibles and pension schemes relating to life insurance business utilise the IFRS measurement basis.
Exchange rates The Groups principal overseas operations during the period were located within the Eurozone and the United States.
The results and cash flows of these operations have been translated at the average rates for that period and the assets and liabilities have been translated at the period end rates.
Please refer to note 1 on page 191 of the IFRS financial statements.
Restatement During 2010, the Groups Dutch subsidiary, Delta Lloyd, reviewed its approach to the scope of business using adjusted swap rates also known as a liquidity premium.
Delta Lloyds approach has been aligned with the Quantitative Impact Study QIS 5 methodology set out as part of Solvency II developments.
The swap rate adjustment is applied in full to immediate annuity type contracts as previously.
In addition, 75% of the liquidity premium is applied to participating contracts and 50% to all other life covered business.
This change aligns local Delta Lloyd and Group Aviva reporting for MCEV and Solvency II internal model calculations.
This change increases the closing 2010 embedded value by 20 million net of non-controlling interests.
Results for 2009 have been restated on a consistent basis leading to an increase in the opening 2009 embedded value of 310 million: an increase in 2009 new business value of 35 million: an increase in 2009 expected return of 34 million and an increase in closing 2009 embedded value of 57 million, all net of non-controlling interests.
