Financial statements IFRS 173 Performance review Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information to the measurement basis have occurred, the financial statements of that year will have disclosed the impacts accordingly.
One such example is our adoption of Financial Reporting Standard 27, Life Assurance, FRS 27 which was issued by the UKs Accounting Standards Board ASB in December 2004.
Aviva, along with other major insurance companies and the ABI, signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the ASB, under which we voluntarily agreed to adopt in full the standard from 2005 in the Groups IFRS financial statements.
FRS 27 adds to the requirements of IFRS but does not vary them in any way.
The additional requirements of FRS 27 are detailed in policy K below and in note 56.
G Premiums earned Premiums on long-term insurance contracts and participating investment contracts are recognised as income when receivable, except for investment-linked premiums which are accounted for when the corresponding liabilities are recognised.
For single premium business, this is the date from which the policy is effective.
For regular premium contracts, receivables are recognised at the date when payments are due.
Premiums are shown before deduction of commission and before any sales-based taxes or duties.
Where policies lapse due to non-receipt of premiums, then all the related premium income accrued but not received from the date they are deemed to have lapsed is offset against premiums.
General insurance and health premiums written reflect business incepted during the year, and exclude any sales-based taxes or duties.
Unearned premiums are those proportions of the premiums written in a year that relate to periods of risk after the statement of financial position date.
Unearned premiums are calculated on either a daily or monthly pro rata basis.
Premiums collected by intermediaries, but not yet received, are assessed based on estimates from underwriting or past experience, and are included in premiums written.
Deposits collected under investment contracts without a discretionary participating feature non-participating contracts are not accounted for through the income statement, except for the fee income covered in policy H and the investment income attributable to those contracts, but are accounted for directly through the statement of financial position as an adjustment to the investment contract liability.
H Other investment contract fee revenue Investment contract policyholders are charged fees for policy administration, investment management, surrenders or other contract services.
The fees may be for fixed amounts or vary with the amounts being managed, and will generally be charged as an adjustment to the policyholders balance.
The fees are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are collected unless they relate to services to be provided in future periods, in which case they are deferred and recognised as the service is provided.
Initiation and other front-end fees fees that are assessed against the policyholder balance as consideration for origination of the contract are charged on some non-participating investment and investment fund management contracts.
Where the investment contract is recorded at amortised cost, these fees are deferred and recognised over the expected term of the policy by an adjustment to the effective yield.
Where the investment contract is measured at fair value, the front-end fees that relate to the provision of investment management services are deferred and recognised as the services are provided.
I Other fee and commission income Other fee and commission income consists primarily of fund management fees, income from the RACs non-insurance activities, distribution fees from mutual funds, commissions on reinsurance ceded, commission revenue from the sale of mutual fund shares and transfer agent fees for shareholder record keeping.
Reinsurance commissions receivable are deferred in the same way as acquisition costs, as described in policy W. All other fee and commission income is recognised as the services are provided.
J Net investment income Investment income consists of dividends, interest and rents receivable for the year, movements in amortised cost on debt securities, realised gains and losses, and unrealised gains and losses on FV investments as defined in policy S. Dividends on equity securities are recorded as revenue on the ex-dividend date.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the investment.
It includes the interest rate differential on forward foreign exchange contracts.
Rental income is recognised on an accruals basis.
A gain or loss on a financial investment is only realised on disposal or transfer, and is the difference between the proceeds received, net of transaction costs, and its original cost or amortised cost as appropriate.
Unrealised gains and losses, arising on investments which have not been derecognised as a result of disposal or transfer, represent the difference between the carrying value at the year end and the carrying value at the previous year end or purchase value during the year, less the reversal of previously recognised unrealised gains and losses in respect of disposals made during the year.
Realised gains or losses on investment property represent the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the property.
K Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities Claims Long-term business claims reflect the cost of all claims arising during the year, including claims handling costs, as well as policyholder bonuses accrued in anticipation of bonus declarations.
General insurance and health claims incurred include all losses occurring during the year, whether reported or not, related handling costs, a reduction for the value of salvage and other recoveries, and any adjustments to claims outstanding from previous years.
Claims handling costs include internal and external costs incurred in connection with the negotiation and settlement of claims.
Internal costs include all direct expenses of the claims department and any part of the general administrative costs directly attributable to the claims function.
174 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Long-term business provisions Under current IFRS requirements, insurance and participating investment contract liabilities are measured using accounting policies consistent with those adopted previously under existing accounting practices, with the exception of liabilities remeasured to reflect current market interest rates and those relating to UK with-profit and non-profit contracts, to be consistent with the value of the backing assets.
For liabilities relating to UK with-profit contracts, the Group has adopted FRS 27, Life Assurance, as described in policy F above, in addition to the requirements of IFRS.
In the United States, shadow adjustments are made to the liabilities or related deferred acquisition costs and are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
This means that the measurement of these items is adjusted for unrealised gains or losses on the backing assets such as AFS financial investments see policy S, that are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, in the same way as if those gains or losses had been realised.
The long-term business provisions are calculated separately for each life operation, based either on local regulatory requirements or existing local GAAP at the later of the date of transition to IFRS or the date of the acquisition of the entity, and actuarial principles consistent with those applied in the UK.
Each calculation represents a determination within a range of possible outcomes, where the assumptions used in the calculations depend on the circumstances prevailing in each life operation.
The principal assumptions are disclosed in note 39 b.
For liabilities of the UK with-profit funds, FRS 27 requires liabilities to be calculated as the realistic basis liabilities as set out by the UKs Financial Services Authority, adjusted to remove the shareholders share of future bonuses.
For UK non-profit insurance contracts, the Group applies the realistic regulatory basis as set out in the FSA Policy Statement 06 14, Prudential Changes for Insurers, where applicable.
Present value of future profits PVFP on non-participating business written in a with-profit fund For UK with-profit life funds falling within the scope of the FSA realistic capital regime, and hence FRS 27, an amount may be recognised for the present value of future profits on non-participating business written in a with-profit fund where the determination of the realistic value of liabilities in that with-profit fund takes account, directly or indirectly, of this value.
This amount is recognised as a reduction in the liability rather than as an asset in the statement of financial position, and is then apportioned between the amounts that have been taken into account in the measurement of liabilities and other amounts which are shown as an adjustment to the unallocated divisible surplus.
Unallocated divisible surplus In certain participating long-term insurance and investment business, the nature of the policy benefits is such that the division between shareholder reserves and policyholder liabilities is uncertain.
Amounts whose allocation to either policyholders or shareholders has not been determined by the end of the financial year are held within liabilities as an unallocated divisible surplus.
If the aggregate carrying value of liabilities for a particular participating business fund is in excess of the aggregate carrying value of its assets, then the difference is held as a negative unallocated divisible surplus balance, subject to recoverability from margins in that funds participating business.
Any excess of this difference over the recoverable amount is charged to net income in the reporting period.
Embedded derivatives Embedded derivatives that meet the definition of an insurance contract or correspond to options to surrender insurance contracts for a set amount or based on a fixed amount and an interest rate are not separately measured.
All other embedded derivatives are separated and measured at fair value, if they are not considered as closely related to the host insurance contract or do not meet the definition of an insurance contract.
Fair value reflects own credit risk to the extent the embedded derivative is not fully collateralised.
Liability adequacy At each reporting date, an assessment is made of whether the recognised long-term business provisions are adequate, using current estimates of future cash flows.
If that assessment shows that the carrying amount of the liabilities less related assets is insufficient in light of the estimated future cash flows, the deficiency is recognised in the income statement by setting up an additional provision in the statement of financial position.
General insurance and health provisions i Outstanding claims provisions General insurance and health outstanding claims provisions are based on the estimated ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not settled at the statement of financial position date, whether reported or not, together with related claims handling costs.
Significant delays are experienced in the notification and settlement of certain types of general insurance claims, particularly in respect of liability business, including environmental and pollution exposures, the ultimate cost of which cannot be known with certainty at the statement of financial position date.
Any estimate represents a determination within a range of possible outcomes.
Further details of estimation techniques are given in note 39 c. Provisions for latent claims are discounted, using rates based on the relevant swap curve, in the relevant currency at the reporting date, having regard to the expected settlement dates of the claims.
The discount rate is set at the start of the accounting period with any change in rates between the start and end of the accounting period being reflected below operating profit as an economic assumption change.
The range of discount rates used is described in note 39 c. Outstanding claims provisions are valued net of an allowance for expected future recoveries.
Recoveries include non-insurance assets that have been acquired by exercising rights to salvage and subrogation under the terms of insurance contracts.
