Financial statements IFRS 269 Performance review Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 48 Pension obligations continued i Defined benefit section of the ASPS The Company works closely with the trustees who are required to consult it on the funding of the scheme and its investment strategy.
Following each actuarial valuation, the Company and the trustees agree the level of contributions needed and funding levels are then monitored on an annual basis.
At 31 March 2009, the date of the last actuarial valuation, this section of the scheme had an excess of obligations over available assets, on a funding basis, which uses more prudent assumptions than are required for reporting under IAS 19, of 3.0 billion.
As a result of that valuation, the Company and the trustees have agreed a long-term funding plan where contributions, together with anticipated growth in scheme investments, are expected to eliminate the funding deficit over time.
Under this agreement, deficit funding payments of 378 million were made in 2010, and are expected to be 136 million in 2011.
Partly as a result of the higher funding payments and the impact on scheme liabilities of the scheme closures described above, the funding deficit is estimated to have fallen to 1.3 billion at 31 December 2010.
The employing companies contributions to the defined benefit section of the ASPS throughout 2010 were 48% of employees pensionable salaries, together with the cost of redundancies during the year and the additional deficit funding described above, together totalling 501 million.
Until 31 March 2011, the employers contribution rate for 2011 has been maintained as 48% of pensionable salaries, with expected service funding contributions for that period falling to 25 million.
Active members of this section of the ASPS contributed between 5% and 7.5% of their pensionable salaries during 2010.
In 2006, the Groups UK life business carried out an investigation into the allocation of costs in respect of funding the ASPS, to identify the deficit that arose in respect of accruals prior to the introduction of the current management services agreements MSAs and to propose a split between individual product companies based on an allocation of the deficit into preand post-MSA amounts.
The results of this review were agreed by the relevant company boards and accepted by the UK regulator.
Consequently, with effect from 1 January 2006, the Companys UK with-profit product companies have been liable for a share of the additional payments for deficit funding referred to above up to a total of 130 million.
This has resulted in movements between the unallocated divisible surplus UDS and retained earnings via the statement of comprehensive income of 18 million in 2010 2009: 24 million to reflect changes in the amount recoverable from the with-profit product companies.
ii Defined contribution money purchase section of the ASPS The trustees have responsibility for selecting a range of suitable funds in which the members can choose to invest and for monitoring the performance of the available investment funds.
Members are responsible for reviewing the level of contributions they pay and the choice of investment fund to ensure these are appropriate to their attitude to risk and their retirement plans.
Members of this section contribute at least 1% of their pensionable salaries and, depending on the percentage chosen, the Company contributes up to a maximum 14%, together with the cost of the death-in-service benefits.
These contribution rates are unchanged for 2011. d Credit charges to the income statement The total pension credit costs of all the Groups defined benefit and defined contribution schemes were: 2010 2009 m m 227 UK defined benefit schemes 84 Overseas defined benefit schemes 52 103 Total defined benefit schemes note 10b 175 187 UK defined contribution schemes 53 53 Overseas defined contribution schemes 17 20 Total defined contribution schemes note 10b 70 73 Total credit charge for pension schemes 105 260 The credit for the defined benefit schemes arises from the 286 million gain on the closure of the UK scheme to future accrual, described in section c above.
There were no significant contributions outstanding or prepaid as at either 31 December 2009 or 2010. e IAS 19 disclosures Disclosures under IAS 19 for the material defined benefit schemes in the UK, the Netherlands, Canada and Ireland are given below.
Where schemes provide both defined benefit and defined contribution pensions, the assets and liabilities shown exclude those relating to defined contribution pensions.
Total employer contributions for these schemes in 2011, including the ASPS deficit funding, are expected to be 285 million.
i Assumptions on scheme liabilities The projected unit credit method The inherent uncertainties affecting the measurement of scheme liabilities require these to be measured on an actuarial basis.
This involves discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the scheme using the projected unit credit method.
This is an accrued benefits valuation method which calculates the past service liability to members and makes allowance for their projected future earnings.
It is based on a number of actuarial assumptions, which vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which the relevant businesses are situated, and changes in these assumptions can materially affect the measurement of the pension obligations.
