Financial statements IFRS 181 Performance review Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information In addition, the difference between the expected return on scheme assets, less investment expenses, and the interest cost of unwinding the discount on the scheme liabilities to reflect the benefits being one period closer to being paid out is credited to investment income.
All actuarial gains and losses, being the difference between the actual and expected returns on scheme assets, changes in assumptions underlying the liability calculations and experience gains or losses on the assumptions made at the beginning of the period, are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension plans.
Once the contributions have been paid, the Group, as employer, has no further payment obligations.
The Groups contributions are charged to the income statement in the year to which they relate and are included in staff costs.
Other post-employment obligations Some Group companies provide post-employment healthcare or other benefits to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually based on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
Unlike the pension schemes, no assets are set aside in separate funds to provide for the future liability but none of these schemes is material to the Group.
The costs of the Canadian scheme are included within those for the defined benefit pension schemes in that country.
For such schemes in other countries, provisions are calculated in line with local regulations, with movements being charged to the income statement within staff costs.
Equity compensation plans The Group offers share award and option plans over the Companys ordinary shares for certain employees, including a Save As You Earn plan SAYE plan, details of which are given in the Directors Remuneration Report and in note 30.
The Group accounts for options and awards under equity compensation plans, which were granted after 7 November 2002, until such time as they are fully vested, using the fair value based method of accounting the fair value method.
Under this method, the cost of providing equity compensation plans is based on the fair value of the share awards or option plans at date of grant, which is recognised in the income statement over the expected vesting period of the related employees and credited to the equity compensation reserve, part of shareholders funds.
Shares purchased by employee share trusts to fund these awards are shown as a deduction from shareholders funds at their original cost.
When the options are exercised and new shares are issued, the proceeds received, net of any transaction costs, are credited to share capital par value and the balance to share premium.
Where the shares are already held by employee trusts, the net proceeds are credited against the cost of these shares, with the difference between cost and proceeds being taken to retained earnings.
In both cases, the relevant amount in the equity compensation reserve is then credited to retained earnings.
AB Income taxes The current tax expense is based on the taxable profits for the year, after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Tax, including tax relief for losses if applicable, is allocated over profits before taxation and amounts charged or credited to components of other comprehensive income and equity as appropriate.
Provision is made for deferred tax liabilities, or credit taken for deferred tax assets, using the liability method, on all material temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
The principal temporary differences arise from depreciation of property and equipment, revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative contracts, provisions for pensions and other post-retirement benefits and tax losses carried forward: and, in relation to acquisitions, on the difference between the fair values of the net assets acquired and their tax base.
The rates enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date are used to determine the deferred tax.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
In countries where there is a history of tax losses, deferred tax assets are only recognised in excess of deferred tax liabilities if there is convincing evidence that future profits will be available.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred taxes are not provided in respect of temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, or from goodwill for which amortisation is not deductible for tax purposes, or from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss at the time of the transaction.
Current and deferred tax relating to items recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity are similarly recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity respectively.
Deferred tax related to fair value re-measurement of available for sale investments, owner-occupied properties and other amounts charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income is recognised in the statement of financial position as a deferred tax asset or liability.
Current tax on interest paid on Direct Capital instruments is credited directly in equity.
In addition to paying tax on shareholders profits, the Groups life businesses in the UK, Ireland and Singapore and Australia prior to its disposal in 2009 pay tax on policyholders investment returns policyholder tax on certain products at policyholder tax rates.
Policyholder tax is accounted for as an income tax and is included in the total tax expense.
The Group has decided to show separately the amounts of policyholder tax to provide a more meaningful measure of the tax the Group pays on its profits.
In the pro forma reconciliations, operating profit has been calculated after charging policyholder tax.
