Governance 107 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Independence criteria for directors Shareholder approval of equity-compensation plans Under the NYSE listing rules applicable to US companies, Under the NYSE listing standards, shareholders must be given independent directors must form the majority of the board of the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and directors.
The Combined Code requires that at least half the material revisions to those plans.
Under the Combined Code, Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent shareholder approval is also necessary for certain equitynon-executive directors, as determined by the Board.
The NYSE compensation plans and significant changes thereto, subject listing rules for US companies also state that a director cannot to certain exceptions.
The Combined Code does not provide a qualify as independent unless the Board affirmatively determines detailed definition or explanation of what are considered to be that the director has no material relationship with the company, significant changes, in contrast to the detailed definition of and the NYSE rules prescribe a list of specific factors and tests that material revisions provided by the NYSE.
US companies must use for determining independence.
The Directors responsibilities Combined Code sets out its own criteria that may be relevant to the independence determination, but permits the Board to The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each conclude affirmative independence notwithstanding the existence accounting period that comply with the relevant provisions of the of relationships or circumstances which may appear relevant to its Companies Act 2006 and International Financial Reporting determination, so long as it states its reasons.
Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU, and which present fairly the financial position, financial performance Non-executive director meetings and cash flows of the Company and the Group at the end of the Pursuant to the NYSE listing standards, the non-management accounting period.
A fair presentation of the financial statements directors of each listed company must meet at regularly scheduled in accordance with IFRS requires the directors to: executive sessions without management and, if that group select suitable accounting policies and verify that they are includes directors who are not independent, listed companies applied consistently in preparing the accounts, on a going should at least once a year schedule an executive session concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the including only independent directors.
Under the Combined Code, Company and the Group will continue in business: the Chairman should hold meetings with the non-executive present information, including accounting policies, in a directors without the executive directors present.
manner that is relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable: Committees provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Under the NYSE standards, US companies are required to have specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to a nominating corporate governance committee.
In addition to understand the impact of particular transactions, other identifying individuals qualified to become Board members, this events and conditions on the Company and the Groups committee must develop and recommend to the Board a set of financial position and financial performance: and corporate governance principles.
The Companys Nomination state that the Company and the Group have complied with Committees terms of reference do not require the committee applicable IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed to develop and recommend corporate governance principles for and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting Code of business conduct and ethics records, which are intended to disclose with reasonable accuracy, The NYSE listing standards require US companies to adopt and at any time, the financial position of the Company and the disclose a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, Group.
They are also ultimately responsible for the systems of officers and employees, and promptly disclose any waivers of the internal control maintained by the Group for safeguarding the code for directors or executive officers.
While the Company does assets of the Company and the Group and for the prevention and not strictly follow this NYSE standard applicable to US companies, detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Further details of the it is committed to ensuring that its business is conducted in all systems of internal controls maintained by the Group are more respects according to rigorous ethical, professional and legal fully described on pages 104 and 105. standards.
The Company has adopted a Business Ethics Code to which all employees are bound and a Code of Ethics for senior management, to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
