Governance 105 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Businesses regularly review the risks identified against the executives and chief financial officers and at a Group level by the tolerances specified in the risk policies, and where risks are group chief executive and chief financial officer.
outside of tolerance, action plans are required.
Similarly, controls The Disclosure Committee, which has the role of overseeing are regularly reviewed for effectiveness and remediation actions the design and effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls, implemented where necessary.
for both financial and non-financial information, evaluates the The Audit Committee receives regular reports from Groups disclosure controls and reviews and endorses the Groups management to assist with its review and assessment of the key periodic external reports including the consolidated financial effectiveness of internal control including financial reporting.
This committee is chaired by the chief financial officer A governance certification process is conducted throughout the and reports to the Audit Committee and the Group Executive Group in support of this review.
The necessary actions have been Committee.
A Group Technical Committee, reporting to the or are being taken to remedy significant failings and weaknesses Disclosure Committee is in place, which presides over significant identified from these reviews.
technical matters, reviewing technical decisions including key The chief executive and chief financial officer of each region judgements, issues and application of assumptions.
have certified compliance with the Groups governance, internal Risk management control and risk management requirements, supported by consideration of evidence from all three lines of defence.
They A Risk Management Framework RMF, designed to identify, have certified that all the key inherent risks within the business measure, manage, monitor and report significant risks to the have been identified and assessed and that the business operates achievement of business objectives is in place and embedded in a manner which conforms to the minimum standards outlined throughout the Group.
The risk management policy set described in Group risk policies as well as the business ethics code.
The chief above under control activities is a key element of the RMF.
The executives and chief financial officers in the regions have also Board has overall responsibility for determining the nature and confirmed that there is a governance structure that is appropriate extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its to oversee risk management activities and that the business has strategic objectives.
The Groups risk appetite statements were complied with the terms of its delegated authority cascaded by reviewed and approved by the Board in June 2010, with a key the Group and has operated a delegated authority structure that focus on balance sheet strength, liquidity and the protection of is appropriate to oversee its activities.
Any key risks not previously identified, control weaknesses A companys objectives, its internal organisation and the or non-compliance with the Group policy framework or local environment in which it operates are continually evolving and, as delegation of authority must be highlighted as part of this a result, the risks it faces are continually changing.
in conjunction with the risk function regularly monitors the risk The chief risk officers of each region have also certified their profile of business units, regions and the Group.
On a quarterly responsibility for providing effective challenge and independent basis, risk reports, setting out the risk profiles, risk exposures oversight of the business management of all risks and of the outside risk appetite and action plans are reported by the risk system of internal control.
The chief risk officers have certified in function.
A consolidated Group-wide risk profile is considered by each region that they have reviewed, and where appropriate, the Group Executive Committee and the Risk Committee.
challenged the completeness, appropriateness and adequacy of Regional executive committees and management receive and risk assessments irrespective of risk appetite, risk reporting and similarly consider local risk reporting.
the adequacy of risk mitigation plans, including proactively Where significant risks outside risk appetite are identified, an advising senior management of emerging risk issues.
They have escalation process is followed.
Such significant risks are reported also certified that they have monitored the implementation of, by the chief risk officer to the Group Executive Committee, the and compliance with, the risk policies and standards, providing Risk Committee and Audit Committee, along with any proposed challenge and escalating all material breaches of limits, appetite mitigating actions.
or policy to the appropriate forum as necessary.
The risk management process has been in place for the year The Group risk function has reviewed any matters identified under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report by regions in their certification and also assessed the risk and and Accounts.
control issues that arose and were reported during the year by Further details on procedures for the management of risk and the three lines of defence.
the systems of internal control operated by the Group are given in the section on risk management set out on pages 65 to 68.
Internal controls over financial reporting Internal audit A Group Reporting Manual including International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and Market Consistent Embedded Internal Audit provides independent assurance to management Value MCEV requirements has been defined and rolled out on the effectiveness of the internal control systems and, the across the Group.
A Financial Reporting Control Framework adequacy of these systems to manage business risk and to FRCF is in place across the Group.
FRCF relates to the safeguard the Groups assets and resources.
Internal Audit also preparation of reliable financial reporting and preparation of local provides objective independent assurance on risk and control to and consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS both the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee.
FRCF also ensures compliance with the requirements Throughout 2010, Internal Audit, through the chief audit of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. officer, provided quarterly reporting on issues arising and the The FRCF process follows a risk-based approach, with status of action items to the Audit Committee and Risk management identification, assessment documentation and Committee.
Similar reporting is undertaken on a regional and testing, remediation as required, reporting and certification over business unit basis to local executive management and local audit key financial reporting-related controls.
The effectiveness of Internal Audit is reviewed assurance procedures over the application of the FRCF process annually by the Audit Committee.
and FRCF controls are undertaken regularly.
The results of the FRCF process are signed off by business unit and regional chief
