Shareholder information 165 Performance review Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information take any action based upon the advice of, or information Risks related to ownership of the ADSs and from, legal counsel, accountants, any person presenting Ordinary Shares ordinary shares for deposit, any holder or owner of an Aviva As a holding company, we are dependent on our operating Plc ADR or any other person believed by us or the depositary subsidiaries to cover operating expenses and dividend in good faith to be competent to give such advice or payments.
Our insurance and fund management operations are generally conducted through direct and indirect subsidiaries.
As a holding In addition, the depositary has the obligation to participate in any company, Aviva plcs principal sources of funding are dividends action, suit or other proceeding with respect to our ADSs which from subsidiaries, shareholder-backed funds and any amounts may involve it in expense or liability only if it is indemnified.
These that may be raised through the issuance of debt and commercial provisions of the Deposit Agreement will limit the ability of paper.
Certain subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions that may holders of our ADSs to obtain recourse if we or the depositary limit the payment of dividends, which in some circumstances fails to meet their obligations under the Deposit Agreement or if could limit our ability to pay dividends to shareholders.
In the they wish to involve us or the depositary in a legal proceeding.
current economic environment, such restrictions could become more stringent.
The holders of our ADSs in the US may not be able to participate in offerings of rights, warrants or similar securities The trading price of our ADSs and dividends paid on our ADSs to holders of our ordinary shares on the same terms and may be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in the conditions as holders of our ordinary shares.
exchange rate for converting sterling into US dollars.
In the event that we offer rights, warrants or similar securities to An ADS is a negotiable US security, representing ownership in the holders of our ordinary shares or distribute dividends payable, one share.
An ADR is denominated in US dollars and represents in whole or in part, in securities, the Deposit Agreement provides ownership of any number of ADSs.
ADRs are publicly traded that the depositary after consultation with us shall have shares in a non-US corporation, quoted and traded in US dollars discretion as to the procedure to be followed in making such in the US securities market.
Any dividends are paid to investors rights or other securities available to ADR holders including in US dollars.
ADRs were specifically designed to facilitate the disposing of such rights or other securities and distributing the net purchase, holding and sale of non-US securities by US investors.
proceeds in US dollars to ADR holders.
Given the significant The term ADR is often used to mean both the certificates and number of our ADR holders in the US, we generally would be the securities themselves.
required to register with the SEC any public offering of rights, Fluctuations in the exchange rate for converting pound warrants or other securities made to our ADR holders unless an sterling into US dollars may affect the value of our ADSs.
exemption from the registration requirements of the US securities Specifically, as the relative value of the pound sterling against the laws is available.
Registering such an offering with the SEC can be US dollar declines, each of the following values will also decline: a lengthy process which may be inconsistent with the timetable the US dollar equivalent of the pound sterling trading price for a global capital raising operation.
Consequently, we have in of our ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange which the past elected and may in the future elect not to make such an may consequently cause the trading price of our ADSs in the offer in the US, including to our ADR holders in the US, and US to also decline: rather only conduct such an offering in an offshore transaction the US dollar equivalent of the proceeds that a holder of in accordance with Regulation S under the US Securities Act of our ADSs would receive upon the sale in the UK of any our 1933, as amended.
Therefore, there can be no assurance that our ordinary shares withdrawn from the depositary: and ADR holders will be able to participate in such an offering in the the US dollar equivalent of cash dividends paid in pound same manner as our ordinary shareholders.
sterling on our ordinary shares represented by our ADSs.
Our ADS and ordinary share price could be volatile and could The holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise their drop unexpectedly and holders may not be able to sell their voting rights due to delays in notification to and by the ADRs or ordinary shares at or above the price they paid.
The price at which our ADSs and ordinary shares will trade may The depositary for our ADSs may not receive voting materials for be affected by a large number of factors, some of which will be our ordinary shares represented by our ADSs in time to ensure specific to us and our operations and some of which will be that holders of our ADSs can instruct the depositary to vote their related to the insurance industry and equity markets generally.
In addition, the depositarys liability to holders of our ADSs As a result of these factors, holders may not be able to resell their for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of ADSs or ordinary shares at or above the price which they paid for carrying out voting instructions is limited by the Deposit them.
In particular, the following factors, in addition to other risk Agreement governing our ADR facility.
As a result, holders of our factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on ADSs may not be able to exercise their right to vote and may have the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares: limited recourse against the depositary or us, if their shares are investor perception of our Company, including actual or not voted according to their request.
anticipated variations in our revenues, earnings or other operating results: Holders of our ADSs will have limited recourse if we or the announcement of intended acquisitions, disposals or depositary fail to meet our respective obligations under the financings or speculations of such acquisitions, disposals Deposit Agreement.
or financings: The Deposit Agreement expressly limits our obligations and changes in our dividend policy, which could result from liability and those of the depositary.
Neither we nor the depositary changes in our cash flow and capital position: will be liable if either of us: sales of blocks of our shares by significant shareholders: are prevented from or delayed in performing any obligation hedging activities on our shares: by circumstances beyond our their control: exercise or fail to exercise discretion under the Deposit Agreement: or 166 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Limitations on Enforceability of Civil Liabilities under US a downgrade of our credit or financial strength ratings, Federal Securities Laws.
including placement on credit watch, or rumours of such We are an English company.
Any experts working on our behalf downgrades: are likely to be residents of the United Kingdom and not the actual or potential litigation involving us or the insurance or United States.
In addition, most of our officers and directors are fund management industries generally: residents of the United Kingdom and not the United States.
It changes in financial estimates and recommendations by may be difficult or impossible to serve legal process on persons securities research analysts: located outside the United States and to force them to appear in fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates: a US court.
It may also be difficult or impossible to enforce a the performance of other companies in the financial judgement of a US court against persons outside the United services sector: States, or to enforce a judgement of a foreign court against such regulatory developments in the principal markets in which persons in the United States.
We believe that there may be doubt we operate: as to the enforceability against persons in the United Kingdom, international or local political, economic and market whether in original actions or in actions for the enforcement of conditions: and judgements of US courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon unforeseen events such as natural disaster or terrorist the laws of the United States, including its federal securities laws.
attacks and other developments stemming from such events Individual shareholders of an English company including US and the uncertainty related to these developments.
persons have the right under English law to bring lawsuits on As a foreign private issuer in the US we are exempt from behalf of the company in which they are a shareholder, and on certain rules under the US securities laws and are permitted their own behalf against the company, in certain limited to file less information with the SEC than US companies.
English law does not permit class action lawsuits As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from certain rules by shareholders, except in limited circumstances.
under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended the Exchange Act, that impose certain disclosure obligations and procedural requirements for proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act.
In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and shortswing profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules under the Exchange Act with respect to their purchases and sales of our ordinary shares and ADRs.
Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as US companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act.
In addition, we are not required to comply with Regulation FD, which restricts the selective disclosure of material information.
Although we must comply with UK listing rules on insider reporting of share ownership and on protection of inside information, there may be less publicly available information concerning us than there is for US public companies.
Judgements of US courts may not be enforceable against us.
Judgements of US courts, including those predicated on the civil liability provisions of the Federal securities laws of the US, may not be enforceable in courts in the United Kingdom.
As a result, our shareholders who obtain a judgement against us in the US may not be able to require us to pay the amount of the judgement.
