Shareholder information 141 Performance review Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Interim Interim Final Final Dividend data dividend dividend dividend dividend per share per share per share per share The Companys dividend policy is to sustain a target dividend Year pence cents pence cents cover of between one and a half and two times our IFRS adjusted 2005 9.83 16.90 17.44 32.82 operating profit after tax before amortisation of goodwill and 2006 10.82 20.49 19.18 37.88 2007 11.90 24.37 21.10 41.31 adjusting items.
Under UK company law, we may only pay 2008 13.09 19.69 19.91 30.31 dividends if the company has distributable profits available.
2009 9.00 14.75 15.00 23.55 Distributable profits are accumulated, realised profits not 2010 9.50 15.20 16.00 25.80 previously distributed or capitalised, less accumulated, unrealised losses not previously written off based on IFRS.
Even if Guarantees, securitised assets and off-balance distributable profits are available, we pay dividends only if the sheet arrangements amount of our net assets is not less than the aggregate of our As a normal part of our operating activities, various Group called-up share capital and undistributable reserves and the companies have given financial guarantees and options, including payment of the dividend does not reduce the amount of our net interest rate guarantees, in respect of certain long-term assurance assets to less than that aggregate.
and fund management products, as set out in Financial As a holding company, the Company is dependent upon statements IFRS Note 41 Financial guarantees and options.
dividends and interest from our subsidiaries to pay cash dividends.
These are accounted for on-balance sheet as either part of the Many of the Companys subsidiaries are subject to insurance host insurance contract or as financial instruments under IFRS.
regulations that restrict the amount of dividends that they can Information on operating lease commitments can be found pay to us.
in Financial statements IFRS Note 53 Commitments.
Historically, the Company has declared an interim and a final It is standard business practice for our Group companies to dividend for each year with the final dividend being paid in the give guarantees, indemnities and warranties in connection with year following the year to which it relates.
Subject to the disposals of subsidiaries and associates to third parties.
As of restrictions set out above, the payment of interim dividends on 31 December 2010, we believe no material loss will arise in ordinary shares is made at the discretion of our Board of directors, respect of these guarantees, indemnities and warranties.
Standard while payment of any final dividend requires the approval of the financial warranties include the accuracy and completeness of the Companys shareholders at a general meeting.
Preference shares statement of financial position at the completion date, details of are irredeemable and dividends on preference shares are made at outstanding litigation, the position on tax filings and any the discretion of our Board of directors.
In addition, specific clauses cover The Company pays cash dividends in pounds sterling, such matters as regulatory approvals and licences, the adequacy although the articles of association permit payment of dividends of actuarial insurance liabilities, reinsurance contracts and the on ordinary shares in other currencies and in forms other than status of employee pension plans.
Their exact terms are tailored cash, such as ordinary shares.
If dividends on ordinary shares held to each disposal and are set out in the respective sale and by the American Depositary Shares ADS depositary are paid in purchase agreement.
Similarly, the open warranty periods, within pounds sterling, the ADS depositary will convert the pounds that which the purchaser could claim, and limits on the maximum it receives on behalf of the ADS holders into US dollars according amount potentially recoverable will vary for each item covered to the prevailing market rate on the date that the ADS depositary in each disposal.
There are a number of outstanding claims on recent disposals, For the 2007 final dividend and previous final and interim none of which are material.
There are also open claim periods on dividends, shareholders on record were provided with the other recent disposals on which we have neither received, nor opportunity to elect to receive dividends in the form of newly expect to receive, any such claims.
We believe that there is no issued ordinary shares through our scrip dividend scheme.
For the material exposure in this respect and therefore we do not have 2008 interim dividend the scrip dividend scheme was replaced by any liabilities in our statement of financial position in respect of a dividend reinvestment plan DRIP.
For those shareholders claims under guarantees, indemnities and warranties in participating in the DRIP, we paid a cash dividend, which was connection with disposals.
then used to buy existing shares on the open market.
For the We have loans receivable, secured by mortgages, which have 2008 final dividend we withdrew the DRIP and reintroduced the then been securitised through non-recourse borrowings by special scrip dividend scheme.
purpose entities, in our UK Life and Dutch businesses, as set out An interim dividend is generally paid in November of each in Financial statements IFRS Note 24 Securitised mortgages year.
A final dividend is proposed by the Companys Board of and related assets.
These special purpose entities have been directors after the end of the relevant year and generally paid consolidated and included in the statement of financial position, in May.
The following table shows certain information regarding as we retain the residual interest in them.
the dividends that we paid on ordinary shares for the periods indicated in pounds sterling and converted into US dollars at the noon buying rate in effect on each payment date.
