172 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Accounting for the PUTs and PLPs as subsidiaries, joint ventures or other financial investments depends on the shareholdings in the GPs and the terms of each partnership agreement.
Where the Group exerts control over a PLP, it has been treated as a subsidiary and its results, assets and liabilities have been consolidated.
Where the partnership is managed by a contractual agreement such that no party exerts control, notwithstanding that the Groups partnership share in the PLP including its indirect stake via the relevant PUT and GP may be greater than 50%, such PUTs and PLPs have been classified as joint ventures.
Where the Group holds minority stakes in PLPs, with no disproportionate influence, the relevant investments are carried at fair value through profit and loss within financial investments.
Associates and joint ventures Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence, but which it does not control.
Generally, it is presumed that the Group has significant influence if it has between 20% and 50% of voting rights.
Joint ventures are entities whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity which is subject to joint control arising from a contractual agreement.
In a number of these, the Groups share of the underlying assets and liabilities may be greater than 50% but the terms of the relevant agreements make it clear that control is not exercised.
Such jointly controlled entities are referred to as joint ventures in these financial statements.
Gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates and joint ventures.
Losses are also eliminated, unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred between entities.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under this method, the cost of the investment in a given associate or joint venture, together with the Groups share of that entitys post-acquisition changes to shareholders funds, is included as an asset in the consolidated statement of financial position.
As explained in policy N, the cost includes goodwill identified on acquisition.
The Groups share of their post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
Equity accounting is discontinued when the Group no longer has significant influence or joint control over the investment.
If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the undertaking, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the entity.
The Companys investments In the Company statement of financial position, subsidiaries and joint ventures are stated at their fair values, estimated using applicable valuation models underpinned by the Companys market capitalisation.
These investments are classified as available for sale AFS financial assets, with changes in their fair value being recognised in other comprehensive income and recorded in a separate investment valuation reserve within equity.
E Foreign currency translation Income statements and cash flows of foreign entities are translated into the Groups presentation currency at average exchange rates for the year while their statements of financial position are translated at the year-end exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised in other comprehensive income and taken to the currency translation reserve within equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, such exchange differences are transferred out of this reserve and are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
The cumulative translation differences were deemed to be zero at the transition date to IFRS.
Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions, and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in the income statement.
Translation differences on debt securities and other monetary financial assets measured at fair value and designated as held at fair value through profit or loss FV see policy S are included in foreign exchange gains and losses in the income statement.
For monetary financial assets designated as AFS, translation differences are calculated as if they were carried at amortised cost and so are recognised in the income statement, whilst foreign exchange differences arising from fair value gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income and included in the investment valuation reserve within equity.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities which are designated as FV, are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss, whereas such differences on AFS equities are included in the investment valuation reserve.
F Product classification Insurance contracts are defined as those containing significant insurance risk if, and only if, an insured event could cause an insurer to make significant additional payments in any scenario, excluding scenarios that lack commercial substance, at the inception of the contract.
Such contracts remain insurance contracts until all rights and obligations are extinguished or expire.
Contracts can be reclassified as insurance contracts after inception if insurance risk becomes significant.
Any contracts not considered to be insurance contracts under IFRS are classified as investment contracts.
Some insurance and investment contracts contain a discretionary participating feature, which is a contractual right to receive additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits.
These are referred to as participating contracts.
As noted in policy A above, insurance contracts and participating investment contracts in general continue to be measured and accounted for under existing accounting practices at the later of the date of transition to IFRS or the date of the acquisition of the entity, in accordance with IFRS 4.
Accounting for insurance contracts in UK companies is determined in accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers, the most recent version of which was issued in December 2005 and amended in December 2006.
In certain businesses, the accounting policies or accounting estimates have been changed, as permitted by IFRS 4 and IAS 8 respectively, to remeasure designated insurance liabilities to reflect current market interest rates and changes to regulatory capital requirements.
When accounting policies or accounting estimates have been changed, and adjustments
