Financial statements IFRS 171 Performance review Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Critical accounting policies The major areas of judgement on policy application are considered to be over whether Group entities should be consolidated set out in policy D, on product classification set out in policy F and in the classification of financial investments set out in policy S. Use of estimates All estimates are based on managements knowledge of current facts and circumstances, assumptions based on that knowledge and their predictions of future events and actions.
Actual results may differ from those estimates, possibly significantly.
The table below sets out those items we consider particularly susceptible to changes in estimates and assumptions, and the relevant accounting policy.
Accounting Item policy Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities F&K Goodwill, AVIF and intangible assets N Fair values of financial investments S Impairment of financial investments S Fair value of derivative financial instruments T Deferred acquisition costs and other assets W Provisions and contingent liabilities Z Pension obligations AA Deferred income taxes AB D Consolidation principles Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities including special purpose entities in which the Group, directly or indirectly, has power to exercise control over financial and operating policies in order to gain economic benefits.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which effective control is transferred to the Group and are excluded from consolidation from the date the Group no longer has effective control.
All inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised surpluses and deficits on transactions between Group companies have been eliminated.
From 1 January 2004, the date of first time adoption of IFRS, the Group is required to use the acquisition method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Under this method, the cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of assets given up, shares issued or liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill see policy N below.
Any surplus of the acquirers interest in the subsidiarys net assets over the cost of acquisition is credited to the income statement.
For business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after 1 January 2010, the Group is required to use the acquisition method of accounting.
Under this method, the cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the Group has the option to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Acquisition-related costs incurred are expensed as incurred.
Transactions that do not result in a loss of control are treated as equity transactions with non-controlling interests.
Merger accounting and the merger reserve Prior to 1 January 2004, certain significant business combinations were accounted for using the pooling of interests method or merger accounting, which treats the merged groups as if they had been combined throughout the current and comparative accounting periods.
Merger accounting principles for these combinations gave rise to a merger reserve in the consolidated statement of financial position, being the difference between the nominal value of new shares issued by the Parent Company for the acquisition sidiary and the subsidiarys own share capital and share premium account.
These transactions have not been of the shares of the sub restated, as permitted by the IFRS 1 transitional arrangements.
The merger reserve is also used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under the Companies Act 1985 and, from 1 October 2009, the Companies Act 2006.
Investment vehicles In several countries, the Group has invested in a number of specialised investment vehicles such as Open-ended Investment Companies OEICs and unit trusts.
These invest mainly in equities, bonds, cash and cash equivalents, and properties, and distribute most of their income.
The Groups percentage ownership in these vehicles can fluctuate from day to day according to the Groups and third-party participation in them.
Where Group companies are deemed to control such vehicles, with control determined based on an analysis of the guidance in IAS 27 and SIC 12, they are consolidated, with the interests of parties other than Aviva being classified as liabilities.
These appear as Net asset value attributable to unitholders in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Where the Group does not control such vehicles, and these investments are held by its insurance or investment funds, they do not meet the definition of associates see below and are, instead, carried at fair value through profit and loss within financial investments in the consolidated statement of financial position, in accordance with IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
As part of their investment strategy, the UK and certain European long-term business policyholder funds have invested in a number of property limited partnerships PLPs, either directly or via property unit trusts PUTs, through a mix of capital and loans.
The PLPs are managed by general partners GPs, in which the long-term business shareholder companies hold equity stakes and which themselves hold nominal stakes in the PLPs.
The PUTs are managed by a Group subsidiary.
