Financial statements IFRS 253 Performance review Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 39 Insurance liabilities continued c General insurance and health liabilities i Provisions for outstanding claims Delays occur in the notification and settlement of claims and a substantial measure of experience and judgement is involved in assessing outstanding liabilities, the ultimate cost of which cannot be known with certainty at the statement of financial position date.
The reserves for general insurance and health business are based on information currently available.
However, it is inherent in the nature of the business written that the ultimate liabilities may vary as a result of subsequent developments.
Provisions for outstanding claims are established to cover the outstanding expected ultimate liability for losses and loss adjustment expenses LAE in respect of all claims that have already occurred.
The provisions established cover reported claims and associated LAE, as well as claims incurred but not yet reported and associated LAE.
We only establish loss reserves for losses that have already occurred.
We therefore do not establish catastrophe equalisation reserves that defer a share of income in respect of certain lines of business from years in which a catastrophe does not occur to future periods in which catastrophes may occur.
When calculating reserves, we take into account estimated future recoveries from salvage and subrogation, and a separate asset is recorded for expected future recoveries from reinsurers after considering their collectability.
The table below shows the split of total general insurance and health outstanding claim provisions and IBNR provisions, gross of reinsurance, by major line of business.
As at 31 December 2010 As at 31 December 2009 Outstanding Outstanding claim IBNR Total claim claim IBNR Total claim provisions provisions provisions provisions provisions provisions m m m m m m Motor 4,419 924 5,343 4,411 753 5,164 Property 1,669 188 1,857 1,697 196 1,893 Liability 2,388 1,303 3,691 2,707 1,379 4,086 Creditor 77 24 101 170 17 187 Other 975 296 1,271 992 374 1,366 9,528 2,735 12,263 9,977 2,719 12,696 ii Discounting Outstanding claims provisions are based on undiscounted estimates of future claim payments, except for the following classes of business for which discounted provisions are held: Mean term of Rate liabilities Class 2010 2009 2010 2009 Netherlands Permanent health and injury 3.75% 3.48% 7 years 8 years Reinsured London Market business 3.30% 4.00% 12 years 10 years Latent claims 0.88% to 0.82% to 7 to 15 4.18% 4.84% years 8 to 15 years Structured settlements 3.20% 3.30% 35 years 35 years The gross outstanding claims provision before discounting was 13,179 million 2009: 13,576 million.
The period of time which will elapse before the liabilities are settled has been estimated by modelling the settlement patterns of the underlying claims.
The discount rate that has been applied to latent claims reserves is based on the relevant swap curve in the relevant currency having regard to the expected settlement dates of the claims.
The range of discount rates used depends on the duration of the claims and is given in the table above.
The duration of the claims span over 35 years, with the average duration being between 7 and 15 years depending on the geographical region.
Any change in discount rates between the start and the end of the accounting period is reflected below operating profit as an economic assumption change.
During 2010, we have continued to experience an increase in the number of bodily injury claims settled by periodic payment orders PPOs or structured settlements, especially in the UK, which are reserved for on a discounted basis.
iii Assumptions Outstanding claims provisions are estimated based on known facts at the date of estimation.
Case estimates are generally set by skilled claims technicians, applying their experience and knowledge to the circumstances of individual claims.
They take into account all available information and correspondence regarding the circumstances of the claim, such as medical reports, investigations and inspections.
Claims technicians set case estimates according to documented claims department policies and specialise in setting estimates for certain lines of business or types of claim.
Claims above certain limits are referred to senior claims handlers for authorisation.
254 Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 39 Insurance liabilities continued No adjustments are made to the claims technicians case estimates included in booked claim provisions, except for rare occasions when the estimated ultimate cost of a large or unusual claim may be adjusted, subject to internal reserve committee approval, to allow for uncertainty regarding, for example, the outcome of a court case.
The ultimate cost of outstanding claims is then estimated by using a range of standard actuarial claims projection techniques, such as the Chain Ladder and Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods.
The main assumption underlying these techniques is that a companys past claims development experience can be used to project future claims development and hence ultimate claims costs.
As such, these methods extrapolate the development of paid and incurred losses, average costs per claim and claim numbers based on the observed development of earlier years and expected loss ratios.
Historical claims development is mainly analysed by accident period, although underwriting or notification period is also used where this is considered appropriate.
Claim development is separately analysed for each geographic area, as well as by each line of business.
Certain lines of business are also further analysed by claim type or type of coverage.
In addition, large claims are usually separately addressed, either by being reserved at the face value of loss adjuster estimates or separately projected in order to reflect their future development.
The assumptions used in most non-life actuarial projection techniques, including future rates of claims inflation or loss ratio assumptions, are implicit in the historical claims development data on which the projections are based.
Additional qualitative judgement is used to assess the extent to which past trends may not apply in the future, for example, to reflect one-off occurrences, changes in external or market factors such as public attitudes to claiming, economic conditions, levels of claims inflation, judicial decisions and legislation, as well as internal factors such as portfolio mix, policy conditions and claims handling procedures in order to arrive at a point estimate for the ultimate cost of claims that represents the likely outcome, from a range of possible outcomes, taking account of all the uncertainties involved.
The range of possible outcomes does not, however, result in the quantification of a reserve range.
However, the following explicit assumptions are made which could materially impact the level of booked net reserves: UK mesothelioma claims The level of uncertainty associated with latent claims is considerable due to the relatively small number of claims and the long-tail nature of the liabilities.
UK mesothelioma claims account for a large proportion of the Groups latent claims.
The key assumptions underlying the estimation of these claims include claim numbers, the base average cost per claim, future inflation in the average cost of claims, legal fees and the life expectancy of potential sufferers.
The best estimate of the liabilities reflects the latest available market information and studies.
Many different scenarios can be derived by flexing these key assumptions and applying different combinations of the different assumptions.
An upper and lower scenario can be derived by making reasonably likely changes to these assumptions, resulting in an estimate 195 million greater than the best estimate, or 85 million lower than the best estimate.
These scenarios do not, however, constitute an upper or lower bound on these liabilities.
Interest rates used to discount latent claim liabilities The discount rates used in determining our latent claim liabilities are based on the relevant swap curve in the relevant currency at the reporting date, having regard to the duration of the expected settlement of latent claims.
The range of discount rates used is shown in section ii above and depends on the duration of the claim and the reporting date.
At 31 December 2010, it is estimated that a 1% fall in the discount rates used would increase net claim reserves by approximately 70 million, excluding the offsetting effect on asset values as assets are not hypothecated across classes of business.
The impact of a 1% fall in interest rates across all assets and liabilities of our general insurance and health businesses is shown in note 57 i. Allowance for risk and uncertainty The uncertainties involved in estimating loss reserves are allowed for in the reserving process and by the estimation of explicit reserve uncertainty distributions.
The reserve estimation basis for non-life claims adopted by the Group at 31 December 2010 requires all non-life businesses to calculate booked claim provisions as the best estimate of the cost of future claim payments, plus an explicit allowance for risk and uncertainty.
The allowance for risk and uncertainty is calculated by each business unit in accordance with the requirements of the Group non-life reserving policy, taking into account the risks and uncertainties specific to each line of business and type of claim in that territory.
The requirements of the Group non-life reserving policy also seek to ensure that the allowance for risk and uncertainty is set consistently across both business units and reporting periods.
Changes to claims development patterns can materially impact the results of actuarial projection techniques.
However, allowance for the inherent uncertainty in the assumptions underlying reserving projections is automatically allowed for in the explicit allowance for risk and uncertainty included when setting booked reserves.
Lump sum payments in settlement of bodily injury claims decided by the UK courts are calculated in accordance with the Ogden Tables.
The Ogden Tables contain a discount rate that is set by the Lord Chancellor and that is applied when calculating the present value of loss of earnings for claims settlement purposes.
The Ogden discount rate is currently under review by the Lord Chancellor.
The outcome of this review is expected to be announced in 2011 but it is still not clear whether or by how much the rate will change.
A reduction in the Ogden discount rates will increase lump sum payments to UK bodily injury claimants.
