288 Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57 Risk management This note sets out the major risks our businesses face and describes the Groups approach to managing these.
It also gives sensitivity analyses around the major economic and non-economic assumptions that can cause volatility in the Groups earnings and capital requirements.
a Risk management framework The risk management framework RMF in Aviva is the collection of processes and tools that have been put in place to ensure that the risks to which we are exposed are identified, measured, managed, monitored and reported on a continuous basis.
The RMF is designed to facilitate a common approach to, and language regarding, the management of risk across the Group.
The key instruments of the RMF include the risk management policies, risk reports, risk models, the governance and oversight infrastructure and the risk appetite framework.
Risks are usually grouped by risk type: market, credit, liquidity, general insurance, life insurance and operational risk.
Risk falling within these types may affect a number of key metrics including those relating to balance sheet strength, liquidity and profit.
They may also affect the performance of the products that we deliver to our customers and the service to our customers and distributors, which can be categorised as risks to our brand and reputation.
Additional information on the Groups risk is included in the risk section of the Performance review.
The Group has a set of formal risk policies that facilitate a consistent approach to the management of all our risks across all businesses and locations in which we operate.
These risk policies define our appetite for different, granular risk types and set out risk management and control standards for the Groups worldwide operations.
A top-down key risk identification and assessment process is carried out monthly in the risk function at Group level based on group and regional chief risk officer and functional risk director input.
This includes the consideration of emerging risks and is supported by deeper thematic reviews.
The risk assessment processes are used to generate risk reports which are shared with the relevant risk committees.
Risk models are an important tool in our measurement of risk and are used to support the monitoring and reporting of the risk profile and in the evaluation of alternative risk management actions.
We carry out a range of stress where one risk factor, such as equity returns, is assumed to vary and scenario where combinations of risk factors are assumed to vary tests to evaluate their impact on the business and the management actions available to respond to the conditions envisaged.
Monthly assessments are made of the economic capital available within the business and the economic capital required to cover the current risk profile of the business and these assessments are included in the regular reporting to the risk committees.
Board oversight of risk and risk management across the Group is maintained on a regular basis through its Risk Committee.
The Board has overall responsibility for determining risk appetite, which is an expression of the risk it is willing to take.
The Groups position against risk appetite is monitored and reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
The risk governance framework allocates responsibility for the oversight of risk management to a number of committees at Group centre, with the Asset Liability Committee ALCO and the Operational Risk Committee ORC providing a key focus on financial and operational risk.
The Group centre committees are in turn supported by similar governance structures in the regions.
b Market risk Market risk is the risk of adverse financial impact due to changes in fair values or future cash flows of financial instruments from fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices, property prices and foreign currency exchange rates.
Market risk arises in business units due to fluctuations in both the value of liabilities and the value of investments held.
At Group level, it also arises in relation to the overall portfolio of international businesses and in the value of investment assets owned directly by the shareholders.
The Group has established a policy on market risk which sets out the principles that businesses are expected to adopt in respect of management of the key market risks to which the Group is exposed.
The Group monitors adherence to this market risk policy and regularly reviews how business units are managing these risks locally, through the Assets Committee and ultimately the Asset Liability Committee ALCO.
For each of the major components of market risk, described in more detail below, the Group has put in place additional processes and procedures to set out how each risk should be managed and monitored, and the approach to setting an appropriate risk appetite.
The management of market risk is undertaken in businesses, regions and at Group level.
Businesses manage market risks locally using the Group market risk framework and within local regulatory constraints.
Businesses may also be constrained by the requirement to meet policyholders reasonable expectations and to minimise or avoid market risk in a number of areas.
The ALM function is responsible for managing market risk at Group level, and a number of investment-related risks, in particular those faced by shareholder funds throughout the Group.
The Group market risk policy sets out the minimum principles and framework for matching liabilities with appropriate assets, the approaches to be taken when liabilities cannot be matched and the monitoring processes that are required.
The Group has criteria for matching assets and liabilities for all classes of business to minimise the impact of mismatches between the value of assets and the liabilities due to market movements.
The local regulatory environment for each business will also set the conditions under which assets and liabilities are to be matched.
In addition, where the Groups long-term savings businesses have written insurance and investment products where the majority of investment risks are borne by its policyholders, these risks are managed in line with local regulations and marketing literature, in order to satisfy the policyholders risk and reward objectives.
Financial statements IFRS 289 Performance review Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 57 Risk management continued The Group writes unit-linked business in a number of its operations.
In unit-linked business, the policyholder bears the investment risk on the assets held in the unit-linked funds, as the policy benefits are directly linked to the value of the assets in the fund.
The shareholders exposure to market risk on this business is limited to the extent that income arising from asset management charges is based on the value of assets in the fund.
Equity price risk The Group is subject to equity price risk due to daily changes in the market values of its equity securities portfolio.
The Groups shareholders are exposed to the following sources of equity risk: Direct equity shareholdings in shareholder funds and the Group defined benefit pension funds.
The indirect impact from changes in the value of equities held in policyholders funds from which management charges or a share of performance are taken: and Its interest in the free estate of long-term with profits funds.
At a business unit level, equity price risk is actively managed in order to mitigate anticipated unfavourable market movements where this lies outside the risk appetite of either the company in respect of shareholder assets or the fund in respect of policyholder assets concerned.
In addition investment limits and local asset admissibility regulations require that business units hold diversified portfolios of assets thereby reducing exposure to individual equities.
The Group does not have material holdings of unquoted equity securities.
Equity risk is also managed using a variety of derivative instruments, including futures and options.
Businesses actively model the performance of equities through the use of risk models, in particular to understand the impact of equity performance on guarantees, options and bonus rates.
The Assets Committee actively monitors equity assets owned directly by the Group, which may include some material shareholdings in the Groups strategic business partners.
Sensitivity to changes in equity prices is given in section h below.
Property price risk The Group is subject to property price risk due to holdings of investment properties in a variety of locations worldwide and through investments in mortgages and mortgage backed securities.
Investment in property is managed at regional and business level, and will be subject to local regulations on asset admissibility, liquidity requirements and the expectations of policyholders as well as overall risk appetite.
The Assets Committee also monitors property assets owned directly by the Group.
As at 31 December 2010, no material derivative contracts had been entered into to mitigate the effects of changes in property prices.
Sensitivity to changes in property prices is given in section h below.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises primarily from the Groups investments in long-term debt and fixed income securities, which are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates.
The Group manages this risk by adopting close asset liability matching criteria, to minimise the impact of mismatches between the value of assets and liabilities from interest rate movements.
A number of policyholder participation features have an influence on the Groups interest rate risk.
The major features include guaranteed surrender values, guaranteed annuity options, and minimum surrender and maturity values.
Details of material guarantees and options are given in note 41.
In short-term business such as general insurance business, the Group requires a close matching of assets and liabilities to minimise this risk.
Interest rate risk is managed by the ALM function and monitored and managed by the Assets Committee, and the Asset Liability Committee.
Exposure to interest rate risk is monitored through several measures that include value-at-risk analysis, position limits, risk modelling, asset and liability matching using measures such as duration.
The impact of exposure to sustained low interest rates is regularly monitored.
Interest rate risk is also managed using a variety of derivative instruments, including futures, options, swaps, caps and floors, in order to provide a degree of hedging against unfavourable market movements in interest rates inherent in the assets backing technical liabilities.
The Group has entered into a number of initiatives, including interest rate swap agreements and changes in asset mix, to mitigate the effects of potential adverse interest rate movements, and to enable closer matching of assets and liabilities.
Sensitivity to changes in interest rates is given in section h below.
Further information on borrowings is included in note 49.
Currency risk The Group has minimal exposure to currency risk from financial instruments held by business units in currencies other than their functional currencies, as nearly all such holdings are backing either unit-linked or with-profit contract liabilities or are hedged.
For this reason, no sensitivity analysis is given for these holdings.
The Group operates internationally and as a result is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk arising from fluctuations in exchange rates of various currencies.
Approximately half of the Groups premium income arises in currencies other than sterling and the Groups net assets are denominated in a variety of currencies, of which the largest are euro, sterling and US dollars.
The Group does not hedge foreign currency revenues as these are substantially retained locally to support the growth of the Groups business and meet local regulatory and market requirements.
