290 Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57 Risk management continued The Groups foreign exchange policy requires that each of our subsidiaries maintains sufficient assets in its local currency to meet local currency liabilities.
Therefore, capital held by the Groups business units should be able to support local business activities regardless of foreign currency movements.
However, such movements may impact the value of the Groups consolidated shareholders equity which is expressed in sterling.
This aspect of foreign exchange risk is monitored and managed centrally, against pre-determined limits.
The Groups foreign exchange policy is to manage these exposures by aligning the deployment of regulatory capital by currency with the Groups regulatory capital requirements by currency.
Limits are set to control the extent to which the deployment of capital is not aligned fully with the Groups regulatory capital requirement for each major currency.
Currency borrowings and derivatives are used to manage exposures within the limits that have been set.
At 31 December 2010, the Groups total equity deployment by currency was: Sterling Euro US$ Other Total m m m m m Capital 31 December 2010 3,301 9,288 2,712 2,424 17,725 Capital 31 December 2009 1,737 8,781 2,605 1,963 15,086 A 10% change in sterling to euro US$ foreign exchange rates would have had the following impact on total equity.
10% 10% 10% 10% increase decrease increase decrease in sterling in sterling in sterling in sterling euro rate euro rate US$ rate US$ rate m m m m Net assets at 31 December 2010 899 833 271 271 Net assets at 31 December 2009 802 802 228 228 The changes arise from retranslation of business unit statements of financial position from their functional currencies into sterling, with above movements being taken through the currency translation reserve.
These movements in exchange rates therefore have no impact on profit.
Net assets are stated after taking account of the effect of currency hedging activities.
Derivatives risk Derivatives are used by a number of the businesses, within policy guidelines agreed by the Board of directors, as set out in the Group policy on derivatives use.
Activity is overseen by the Derivatives Approvals Committee, which monitors implementation of the policy, exposure levels and approves large or complex transactions proposed by businesses.
Derivatives are primarily used for efficient investment management, risk hedging purposes or to structure specific retail savings products.
Derivative transactions are covered by either cash or corresponding assets and liabilities.
Speculative activity is prohibited, unless prior approval has been obtained from the Derivatives Approvals Committee.
Over-the-counter derivative contracts are entered into only with approved counterparties and using ISDA documentation and credit support annexes or equivalent in accordance with the Group derivatives policy.
Adherence to the collateral requirements as set out in the Group derivatives and Group credit policies thereby reduces the risk of credit loss.
The Group applies strict requirements to the administration and valuation processes it uses, and has a control framework that is consistent with market and industry practice for the activity that is undertaken.
Correlation risk The Group recognises that lapse behaviour and potential increases in consumer expectations are sensitive to and interdependent with market movements and interest rates.
These interdependencies are taken into consideration in the ICA in the aggregation of the financial stress tests with the operational risk assessment and in scenario analysis.
c Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss as a result of the default or failure of third parties to pay on their obligations to Aviva.
Our credit risks arise through exposures to debt investments, structured asset investments, derivative counterparties, mortgage lending and reinsurance placement counterparties.
We hold these investments for the benefit of both our policyholders and shareholders.
The Group manages its credit risk at business unit, regional and Group levels.
All business units and regions are required to implement local credit risk management processes including limits frameworks, operate specific risk management committees, and ensure detailed reporting and monitoring of their exposures against pre-established risk criteria.
At Group level, we manage and monitor all exposures across our business units on a consolidated basis, and operate a group limit framework that must be adhered to by all.
The risk management framework also includes the market related aspect of credit risk.
This is the risk of a fall in the value of fixed interest securities from changes in the perceived worthiness of the issuer and is manifested through changes in the fixed interest securities credit spreads.
Management of credit risk is effected by five core functions: The maintenance and adherence of an effective governance structure.
This includes clear guidance, scope and frameworks for all aspects of the credit risk function to ensure accountability and clarity.
This also includes delegated authority to the Credit Approvals Committee which is authorised to make key decisions within certain risk appetite levels.
The accurate and timely reporting of detailed exposure information, and their aggregation by counterparty, exposure types, sectors, geography and ratings.
Financial statements IFRS 291 Performance review Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 57 Risk management continued The implementation of a sophisticated capital charge-based credit limit framework that considers and quantifies the key specific attributes of each exposure e. g. seniority, maturity, etc and provides a counterparty level aggregation methodology covering all exposures to a counterparty.
This is then managed against centrally set limits.
Upper limits are also set to ensure that any unexpected jump to default risks are kept within appetite.
Additional limit and controls are applied for structured assets and reinsurance counterparty exposures.
The limits framework also considers more systemic risk factors such as sector and geographic concentrations, and these are continually assessed throughout our global portfolio.
Additional committee and credit risk function oversight is provided on all credit risk related matters.
This includes regular consideration and review of our key counterparties, monitoring and addressing key credit themes and news that emerge in the markets.
The Credit Approvals Committee provides an effective forum to ensure that all key recommendations are considered, and decisions implemented throughout the Group.
The regional and Group credit divisions ensure that qualitative aspects of risk management are considered and evaluated to provide further oversight and balance to the quantitative aspects.
The employment of risk mitigation techniques where and when deemed appropriate.
These are utilised where possible to remove residual unwanted risks, as well as bring or keep exposure limits within appetite, and include methods such as collateralisation, purchase of credit protection and diversification strategies.
A detailed breakdown of the Groups current credit exposure by credit quality is shown below.
Financial exposures by credit ratings Financial assets are graded according to current external credit ratings issued.
AAA is the highest possible rating.
Investment grade financial assets are classified within the range of AAA to BBB ratings.
Financial assets which fall outside this range are classified as speculative grade.
The following table provides information regarding the aggregated credit risk exposure, for financial assets with external credit ratings, of the Group.
Not rated assets capture assets not rated by external ratings agencies.
Credit rating Carrying value in the statement of financial Speculative position At 31 December 2010 AAA AA A BBB grade Not rated m Debt securities 36.3% 18.1% 22.7% 15.8% 2.5% 4.6% 167,482 Reinsurance assets 0.2% 58.8% 25.3% 1.5% 0.1% 14.1% 7,084 Other investments 0.2% 1.1% 1.4% 0.4% 0.1% 96.8% 36,730 Loans 3.8% 5.8% 2.2% 0.4% 0.7% 87.1% 43,074 Credit rating Carrying value in the statement of financial Speculative position At 31 December 2009 AAA AA A BBB grade Not rated m Debt securities 38.6% 17.3% 24.0% 12.8% 2.5% 4.8% 161,757 Reinsurance assets 10.5% 52.1% 26.7% 0.4% 0.2% 10.1% 7,572 Other investments 0.2% 3.4% 2.0% 1.2% 93.2% 31,518 Loans 6.2% 7.7% 0.9% 0.5% 1.0% 83.7% 41,079 The carrying amount of assets included in the statement of financial position represents the maximum credit exposure.
As described in note 25, 1,247 million debt securities held by consolidated French mutual funds, previously included within other investments, have been reclassified as debt securities as at 31 December 2009.
In addition, certain non-rated debt securities totalling 1,917 million, which at the 31 December 2009 had been classified according to their internal credit ratings, are now presented as non-rated.
Carrying values and percentages at 31 December 2009 have been amended accordingly.
Other investments Other investments include: 32,520 million of unit trusts and other investment vehicles.
The underlying credit ratings of these assets are not reflected in this analysis.
Derivative financial instruments of 2,274 million, representing positions to mitigate the impact of adverse market movements.
Other assets of 1,936 million, includes deposits with credit institutions and minority holdings in property management undertakings.
The Group loan portfolio principally comprises: Policy loans which are generally collateralised by a lien or charge over the underlying policy: Loans and advances to banks which primarily relate to loans of cash collateral received in stock lending transactions.
These loans are fully collateralised by other securities: and Mortgage loans collateralised by property assets.
292 Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57 Risk management continued Unit trusts and other investment vehicles The credit quality of the underlying debt securities within these vehicles is managed by the safeguards built into the investment mandates for these funds.
We rely on our understanding that the trusts and their asset managers are only approved if they satisfy certain selection criteria including due diligence in the form of a questionnaire and or research by dedicated teams.
In addition, the asset managers are mandated to make investments in line with the funds risk profiles as marketed to prospective customers and policyholders.
Accordingly, as part of reviewing the asset quality of unit trusts and other investment vehicles, we monitor the assets within the funds and their performance to ensure they remain in line with the respective investment mandates for these funds.
For certain of the unit trusts in our other investments, we apply minimum requirements affecting both the underlying counterparties and the investments issued by those counterparties such as a minimum size for the counterpartys programme, a limit on the size of the overall exposure to the underlying counterparty and, where appropriate, explicit approval of the counterparty by internal credit risk management teams is required.
These criteria are indicators of the asset quality for these investments, as they represent minimum criteria for liquidity and diversification.
A proportion of the assets underlying these investments are represented by equities and so credit ratings are not generally applicable.
Equity exposures are managed against agreed benchmarks that are set with reference to overall market risk appetite.
Derivatives Derivative transactions must comply with Group guidance on the quality of counterparties used and the extent of collateralisation required.
The counterparty must have a minimum credit rating from rating agencies S&P, Moodys and Fitch and the collateral process must meet certain minimum standards as set out by Group guidelines.
The largest shareholder notional positions are exchange traded, rather than over the counter OTC, with the added protection that provides i. e. the credit risk is mitigated significantly through regular margining and protection offered by the exchange, and is controlled by the Groups local asset management operations.
Loans The majority of the Group loans portfolio is unrated.
However, we use the following metrics to internally monitor our exposure: Property collateralization: Interest service cost: Diversity of the tenant base: and Existence of government guarantees for some residential mortgages.
Policy loans are loans and advances made to policyholders, and are collateralised by the underlying policies.
As such, we believe such collateralisation minimises our risk.
Credit concentration risk The long-term businesses and general insurance businesses are generally not individually exposed to significant concentrations of credit risk due to the regulations, applicable in most markets, limiting investments in individual assets and asset classes supplemented by the Group credit policy and limits framework.
In cases where the business is particularly exposed to credit risk e. g. in respect of defaults on mortgages matching annuity liabilities this risk is translated into a more conservative discount rate used to value the liabilities, creating a greater capital requirement, and this credit risk is actively managed.
The impact of aggregation of credit risk is monitored as described above.
With the exception of government bonds the largest aggregated counterparty exposure is approximately 0.9% of the Groups total shareholder assets.
Reinsurance credit exposures The Group is exposed to concentrations of risk with individual reinsurers, due to the nature of the reinsurance market and the restricted range of reinsurers that have acceptable credit ratings.
The Group operates a policy to manage its reinsurance counterparty exposures, by limiting the reinsurers that may be used and applying strict limits to each reinsurer.
Reinsurance exposures are aggregated with other exposures to ensure that the overall risk is within appetite.
The Credit Approvals Committee has a monitoring role over this risk.
The Groups largest reinsurance counterparty is Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd including subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2010, the reinsurance asset recoverable, including debtor balances, from Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd was 1,284 million.
Securities finance The Group has significant securities financing operations within the UK.
The risks within this business are mitigated by  which is designed to result in minimal residual risk.
The Group operates strict standards around collateral management and controls.
Financial statements IFRS 293 Performance review Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 57 Risk management continued Derivative credit exposures The Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk through derivative trades.
This risk is mitigated through collateralising almost all trades the exception being certain FX trades where it has historically been the market norm not to collateralise.
The Group operates strict standards around collateral management and controls including the requirement that all Over the Counter derivatives are supported by credit support annexes and ISDAs.
Unit-linked business As discussed previously, in unit-linked business the policyholder bears the market risk, including credit risk, on investment assets in the unit funds, and the shareholders exposure to credit risk is limited to the extent that their income arises from asset management charges based on the value of assets in the fund.
Impairment of financial assets The following table provides information regarding the carrying value of financial assets that have been impaired and the ageing of financial assets that are past due but not impaired.
Financial assets that are past due but not impaired Carrying value in Neither Financial the past due Greater assets that statement nor 03 36 6 months than have been of financial impaired months months 1 year 1 year impaired position At 31 December 2010 m m m m m m m Debt securities 167,334 3 3 28 114 167,482 Reinsurance assets 7,084 7,084 Other investments 36,671 19 6 15 8 11 36,730 Loans 42,045 326 26 11 7 659 43,074 Receivables and other financial assets 7,983 209 36 39 10 18 8,295 Financial assets that are past due but not impaired Carrying Financial value in the Neither Greater assets that statement of past due 03 36 6 months than have been financial nor impaired months months 1 year 1 year impaired position At 31 December 2009 m m m m m m m Debt securities 161,647 110 161,757 Reinsurance assets 7,572 7,572 Other investments 31,503 15 31,518 Loans 40,039 355 35 17 6 627 41,079 Receivables and other financial assets 8,832 649 61 32 71 7 9,652 As described in note 25, 1,247 million debt securities held by consolidated French mutual funds, previously included within other investments, have been reclassified as debt securities as at 31 December 2009.
The analysis of financial assets past due at 31 December 2009 has been amended accordingly.
Credit terms are set locally within overall credit limits prescribed by the Group Credit Approvals Committee and within the framework of the Group Credit Policy.
The credit quality of financial assets is managed at the local business unit level.
Where assets have been classed as past due and impaired, an analysis is made of the risk of default and a decision is made whether to seek collateral from the counterparty.
There were no material financial assets that would have been past due or impaired had the terms not been renegotiated.
d Liquidity risk At Group level, we maintain a prudent level of liquidity which meets the expectations of the Financial Services Authority FSA and the wider investment community.
We maintain a buffer of liquid assets, determined by liquidity stress tests, which is designed to cover unforeseen circumstances in any of our businesses.
The Group and Company have a strong liquidity position 1.5 billion of financial assets held at Group and through the application of a Group Liquidity policy seek to maintain sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due.
In addition to this strong liquidity position, the Group and Company maintain significant undrawn committed borrowing facilities 2.1 billion from a range of highly rated banks to further mitigate this risk.
Asset liability matching The Group market risk policy sets out the minimum principles and framework for matching liabilities with appropriate assets, the approaches to be taken when liabilities cannot be matched and the monitoring processes that are required.
The Group has criteria for matching assets and liabilities for all classes of business to minimise the impact of mismatches between the value of assets and the liabilities due to market movements.
The local regulatory environment for each business will also set the conditions under which assets and liabilities are to be matched.
The Asset Liability matching ALM methodology develops optimal asset portfolio maturity structures for our businesses which seek to ensure that the cash flows are sufficient to meet the liabilities as they are expected to arise.
294 Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57 Risk management continued Where any decision to adopt a position in respect of policyholder assets and liabilities is not closely matched but is within the business units investment risk appetite, the impact is monitored through our economic capital measurement process.
The decision taken must be justified to the local management board and Group management by a full analysis of the impact of the level of mismatch on both risk and return.
ALM strategy may be determined at a sub-fund level for a block of closely related liabilities.
Alternatively, if ALM strategy is determined at a fund or company level, it will usually be appropriate for pricing, financial reporting and risk management purposes to develop a hypothecation of assets to notional sub-funds with different liability characteristics.
It is for this reason that Group Risk provides a framework of corporate objectives within which the operating businesses develop specific and appropriate ALM methodologies, to seek to ensure that our businesses have sufficient liquidity to settle claims as they are expected to arise.
ALM modelling is based on a projection of both assets and liabilities into the future.
A further tenet of our risk management strategy involves investment strategies, which also take into account the accounting, regulatory, capital and tax issues.
The ALM strategy also takes into account the reasonable expectations of policyholders, local best practice and meets relevant regulatory requirements.
Our investment strategies are designed to seek to ensure that sufficient liquidity exists in extreme business scenarios.
For example, our investment strategy must consider a scenario of high lapses accompanied by poor investment markets or a general insurance catastrophe event.
Maturity analyses The following tables show the maturities of our insurance and investment contract liabilities, and of the financial and reinsurance assets to meet them.
A maturity analysis of the contractual amounts payable for borrowings and derivatives is given in notes 49 and 58 respectively.
Contractual obligations under operating leases and capital commitments are given in note 53. i Analysis of maturity of insurance and investment contract liabilities For non-linked insurance business, the following table shows the gross liability at 31 December 2010 analysed by remaining duration.
The total liability is split by remaining duration in proportion to the cash-flows expected to arise during that period, as permitted under IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts.
Almost all investment contracts may be surrendered or transferred on demand.
For such contracts, the earliest contractual maturity date is therefore the current statement of financial position date, for a surrender amount approximately equal to the current statement of financial position liability.
We expect surrenders, transfers and maturities to occur over many years, and the tables reflect the expected cash flows for non-linked investment contracts.
However, contractually, the total liability for non-linked investment contracts of 63,197 million 2009: 59,504 million would be shown in the within 1 year column below.
Unit-linked contracts are repayable or transferable on demand and are therefore shown in the within 1 year column.
