Shareholder information 147 Performance review Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Key directives of particular relevance to the financial services Audit Committee financial expert industry, and so to Avivas businesses in the European Union The Board has determined that Russell Walls, Richard Goeltz and include: Euleen Goh all qualify as Audit Committee financial experts within the meaning of Item 16A of Form 20-F, and that Russell Walls, Third Life and Non-Life Directives Richard Goeltz and Euleen Goh are all independent as defined by These directives implemented the home country control principle the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and the New York for life and non-life insurance business, in the mid-1990s, and Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Standards.
placed the responsibility for such issues as solvency, actuarial reserves, investment of assets, and certain governance issues on Code of ethics the home country regulator.
Most companies licensed to conduct The Company has adopted a code of ethics for its group chief insurance business in one member state may rely on its home executive, chief financial officer, general auditor and group chief country regulation to passport into all other member states to accounting officer as required by the provisions of Section 406 of conduct business without having to be separately licensed in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules issued by the SEC.
The general exception is selling activity which continues to There have been no amendments to, or waivers from, the code be regulated by the state in which the sale takes place.
of ethics relating to any of those officers.
The code of ethics was filed on 7 October 2009 as an exhibit to our Form 20-F Insurance Groups Directive IGD registration document.
The IGD requires member states to introduce the following measures to strengthen supervision of insurance companies Regulation which are part of a group: Compliance an adjustment to the solvency calculation in relation to In both our insurance and fund management businesses matters participating interest in other insurance undertakings in may arise as a result of industry-wide issues, inspection visits or order to eliminate double-gearing the use of the same other regulatory activity, requiring discussion and resolution with regulatory capital in more than one entity of a group.
The Aviva Group needs to ensure an additional parent undertaking solvency margin that procedures are in place to address any regulatory concerns, calculation analogous to the adjusted margin test referred to and that such procedures are properly planned, managed and above, to be applied at the level of the parent undertaking.
Corrective action is undertaken, when necessary, the introduction of new solo supervision requirements, with progress reported to relevant regulatory bodies in a including rules as to internal control within the insurance timely manner.
undertaking regarding the production of information relevant to supplementary supervision, the exchange of Overview of regulation as it affects our business information within the group and the supervision of intraOur principal insurance and fund management operations are in group transactions.
the United Kingdom UK, Europe, North America and the Asia further provisions aimed at ensuring co-operation between Pacific region.
We are therefore subject to financial services competent regulatory authorities of member states.
regulation in these areas, as individually covered below.
However, as the Groups parent company is based in the Since 31 December 2006 the group capital resources requirement UK, both European Union EU legislation and the rules of the the parent undertaking solvency calculation mentioned above Financial Services Authority FSA, the UKs financial services has been a hard test i. e. it constitutes a requirement to maintain regulator, can impact on Avivas business practices worldwide.
the group capital resources, rather than simply to make the calculation for UK-based companies operating under FSA rules.
The European Union In addition to its UK businesses Aviva is also active in other EU Reinsurance Directive member states through wholly owned subsidiary and joint Adopted on 16 November 2005, this directive requires that all venture companies.
These companies are subject to the laws and reinsurance undertakings be authorised in their home member regulations of the EU member state in which they are based, but state.
To obtain that authorisation, they need to meet strict are also affected by higher level EU legislation, which will requirements, but are then free to operate anywhere in the EU continue to have a significant influence on the legislative through the single market passport process.
environment, both in the UK and other EU markets.
e Distance Marketing Directive The EU operates by promulgating directives that must b implemented into local national legislation within each EU Under the Distance Marketing Directive, EU member states are required to implement a framework of rules and guidance in member country.
These directives set the minimum standards for national legislatures to meet, with each legislature able to decide order to protect consumers by: setting minimum standards for information that must be how they should be implemented.
National governments may not pass laws which fail to meet the minimum standards set out in a provided to consumers before entering into a financial services contract by distance means.
directive, but are generally free to impose legal requirements which go beyond those required.
Directives are written at a fairly for certain products and services, giving a cooling-off period in which a consumer may cancel a contract without penalty.
high level, with more detail being provided at national level through legislation developed in accordance with the local legal Insurance Mediation Directive system.
Even greater detail may be imposed through the rules and This requires EU member states to establish a framework to: regulations of national regulators, and for financial services ensure that insurance and reinsurance intermediaries have businesses these rules can be extensive.
been registered on the basis of a minimum set of EU financial services regulation is based on the principle of professional and financial requirements.
home country control, which makes the home country regulator ensure that registered intermediaries will be able to operate responsible for monitoring compliance with all applicable in other member states by availing themselves of the regulation.
freedom to provide services or by establishing a branch.
148 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 United Kingdom impose on insurance intermediaries requirements to provide The Financial Services Authority specified minimum information to potential customers.
In the UK, the Financial Services Authority the FSA is currently Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID the single regulator for those individuals and firms conducting MiFID, which superseded the earlier Investment Services Directive, defined regulated activities in the financial services sector.
The builds on the home country control principle, extending the range FSA has the authority to make rules and issue guidance, taking of core investment services and activities that may be passported into account relevant EU directives, in relation to a wide sphere of from one member state to another, clarifying the allocation of activity encompassing the governance of the conduct of business responsibilities between home and host country jurisdictions, and by, and the prudential supervision of, individuals and firms introducing greater harmonisation governing the organisation authorised by the FSA to conduct such business Authorised and conduct of business of investment firms.
Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA no Solvency II person may carry on, or purport to carry on, a regulated activity The agreed Solvency II Level 1 Directive was published in by way of business in the UK unless he is an Authorised Person or November 2009.
Solvency II represents a fundamental change an exempt person.
A firm granted permission by the FSA to carry in European regulation and will result in a more sophisticated on regulated activities becomes an Authorised Person for the economic risk-based capital approach.
It establishes a solvency purposes of FSMA.
Regulated activities are prescribed in the system that is better aligned to the true risks of insurers, and FSMA Regulated Activities Order 2001 and include banking, aims to enable supervisors to protect policyholder interests as insurance and investment business, stakeholder pension effectively as possible in accordance with common principles schemes, insurance mediation and certain mortgage mediation across the EU.
Since approval, focus has been on the Level 2 implementing Authorised Firms must at all times meet specified threshold measures that determine how the directive will be applied in conditions, including possession of adequate resources for the practice, and expected amendments to the Solvency II Directive carrying on of its business, and being fit and proper to conduct Omnibus II Directive following the creation of the new European that business, having regard to all the circumstances.
Authorised Supervisory Authorities ESAs in September 2010.
Uncertainty Firms must also operate in accordance with the FSAs Principles remains around the implementing measures, which are not for Business.
These are 11 high level principles for conducting expected to be finalised before June 2011. financial services business in the UK, including maintenance of One of the new ESAs, the European Insurance and adequate systems and controls, treating customers fairly, and Occupational Pensions Authority EIOPA, replaced CEIOPS on communicating with customers in a manner that is clear, fair 1 January 2011.
Proposed focused amendments to the Solvency II and not misleading.
Directive were published in January 2011, giving power to EIOPA The FSA regime is based on the principle that firms should to issue binding guidance standards, and delay implementation of have effective systems and controls, including robust risk Solvency II to 1 January 2013. management, which are appropriate to the size, complexity This highlights the need for continued engaged industry and diversity of their business.
participation, and Aviva has been actively participating, through the key European industry working groups who provide the voice The FSAs regulation of the Group of industry, in on-going discussions in Brussels.
A number of the Groups UK subsidiaries are directly authorised and regulated by the FSA, including our insurance companies Future EU developments e. g. the UK Life and UK General Insurance companies, asset In Europe agreement has been reached on the roles and powers managers Aviva Investors and intermediaries UK Healthcare of the new ESAs which came into force in January 2011.
The new and RAC Motoring Services.
Aviva plc, although not directly ESAs have powers to make binding rules and drive supervisory authorised by the FSA, does itself come within the scope of consistency and convergence through a single rule book.
Their some regulation, as the ultimate insurance holding company involvement in the colleges of supervisors for cross-border in the Group.
financial institutions, together with broader changes being As Aviva is a UK-based group, the FSA has the responsibility progressed within Europe relating to financial conglomerates, of acting as lead regulatory i. e. the cross-sector supervisory signals a move towards more focused and intrusive group co-ordinator for the Group within the EU.
The European Parliament has now approved the Alternative Approved persons and controllers Investment Fund Managers Directive, and each EU nation has two The FSA places great emphasis on the principle of senior years to implement the directive.
Once the directive is in force the management responsibility.
The directors of, and senior managers regime governing the marketing of alternative investments to EU carrying out FSA defined controlled function roles in, any of the investors will be determined by the location of the fund manager Groups regulated entities are individually registered with the FSA and the fund.
Managers established in the EU, and managing a under the Approved Person regime, and can be held directly fund established in the EU, will be able to apply for a passport to accountable to the FSA for control failings in those firms.
A market that EU fund to professional investors across the EU.
If number of senior managers at Group level have also been the manager, or the fund, is not established in the EU the current registered as Approved Persons for the regulated subsidiaries, private placement regimes will apply, to enable the marketing of even though they are neither directors nor senior managers of the fund within the EU.
Two years after implementation a these firms.
This recognises that these managers exert significant decision will be made regarding the possible extension of the influence over the regulated subsidiaries, because they are passport regime to non-EU countries.
responsible for key parts of the Groups control framework on which the regulated subsidiaries place reliance.
The FSA regulates from a legal entity perspective, even though Aviva tends to operate within Regions by Business Unit.
However, the FSA also expects that Avivas regulated subsidiaries Shareholder information 149 Performance review Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information operate within an overall framework of Group governance and Determination of the ECR involves the comparison of two controls.
Its rules expressly provide that any systems and controls separate measurements of the Authorised Firms financial which operate on a Group basis will be taken into account in resources requirements, which the FSA refers to as the twin determining the adequacy of a regulated subsidiarys systems and peaks approach.
The two separate peaks are: controls.
The robustness of these Group controls is therefore the requirement comprised by the mathematical reserves subject to scrutiny and challenge by the FSA.
plus the long term insurance capital requirement the The FSA regulates the acquisition and increase of control over LTICR, together known as the regulatory peak: and Authorised Firms.
Under FSMA, any person proposing to acquire a calculation of the realistic present value of the insurers control of, or increase control over certain thresholds of, an expected future contractual liabilities together with Authorised Firm must first obtain the consent of the FSA.
The projected fair discretionary bonuses to policyholders, plus a Authorised Firm must also inform the FSA of any such proposed risk capital margin, together known as the realistic peak.
In considering whether to grant or withhold its approval of the acquisition or increase of control, All insurers must also carry out an Individual Capital Assessment the FSA must be satisfied both that the acquirer is a fit and ICA to calculate the amount of capital needed to back their proper person and that the interests of consumers would not business.
If the FSA decides that the final ICA amount is be threatened by this acquisition or increase of control.
insufficient, it may draw up its own Individual Capital Guidance Control over a UK Authorised Firm A is acquired if the ICG for the firm, which can be imposed as a requirement on the acquirer: scope of the Authorised Firms permission.
holds 10% or 20% if the Authorised Firm is an insurance Day-to-day supervision intermediary or more of the shares, or voting power, in that The FSA takes a risk-based approach to its regulatory activity, firm, or a parent undertaking of the firm: or concentrating its resources on those firms and activities which it is able to exercise significant influence over the management assesses pose the greatest potential threats to its four statutory of the firm by virtue of the acquirers shares or voting power objectives of: in that company or a parent undertaking of the firm.
maintaining confidence in the UK financial system contributing to the protection and enhancement of stability Increases in control require the consent of the FSA when they of the UK financial system reach thresholds of 20%, 30% and 50% of the shares or voting securing the appropriate degree of protection for consumers power of the firm or its parent.
reducing the extent to which it is possible for a regulated In order to determine whether a person or a group of persons business to be used for a purpose connected with is a controller for the purposes of FSMA, the holdings shares or financial crime voting rights of the person and any other person acting in concert, if any, are aggregated.
Given our size, and our share of the UK retail market, a major FSA conduct of business rules issue within our business which causes concern for the FSA The FSAs Conduct of Business COB and Insurance: Conduct of may have a significant impact on these objectives.
Business ICOB Rules apply to every Authorised Firm carrying on The FSA therefore aspires to have a close and continuous relevant regulated activities, and regulate the day to day conduct relationship with us, with day-to-day supervision of Aviva of business standards to be observed by all Authorised Persons in conducted by a dedicated team within its Major Retail Groups carrying out regulated activities.
In practice, this means that a wide range of Group, The COB and ICOB Rules are principle based, and the scope Regional and UK Business Unit senior managers have regular and range of obligations imposed on an Authorised Firm will scheduled close and continuous meetings with the FSA, and vary according to the scope of its business and range of the other meetings and discussions on specific issues take place Authorised Firms clients.
Generally speaking, however, the as the need occurs.
This adds up to weekly or even daily FSA obligations imposed on an Authorised Firm by the COB and ICOB interaction at UK Region, Business Unit and Group level.
Rules will include the need to classify its clients according to their The FSA also periodically conducts a formal Advanced Risklevel of sophistication, provide them with information about the Responsive Operating framework ARROW review of Aviva, Authorised Firm, meet certain standards of product disclosures to assess the level of risk that the Group poses to each of the including fee and remuneration arrangements, ensure that FSA objectives.
The last full risk assessment was conducted in promotional material which it produces is clear, fair and not 2009 and the next full risk assessment is due to take place in misleading, assess suitability when advising on certain products, quarter 3, 2011. control the range and scope of advice given, manage conflicts of Areas of potential risk or weakness, where the FSA particularly interest, report appropriately to its clients and provide certain requires Aviva to focus attention, are formally set out in a Risk protections in relation to client assets.
Mitigation Plan RMP, with both risk assessment and RMP issues up-dated on an ongoing basis between each ARROW review.
Capital and solvency rules for insurers The FSA has highlighted in its 2010 Business Plan that its The FSA rules require that a UK insurer including those within the key focus areas for 2010 2011 would be: Group must hold capital resources equal to at least the Minimum ensuring firms are soundly run, with effective risk Capital Requirement the MCR.
Insurers with with-profits liabilities management in place, through close scrutiny of corporate of more than 500 million which is the case with Avivas withgovernance, financial reporting, remuneration profits fund must hold capital equal to the higher of MCR and arrangements, recovery and resolution plans, and firms the Enhanced Capital Requirement the ECR.
The ECR is intended ability to identify and mitigate risk.
to provide a more risk responsive and realistic measure of a witha more proactive and intensive approach to supervision, profits insurers capital requirements, whereas the MCR is broadly through implementation of its Core Prudential Programme equivalent to the previous required minimum margin, and satisfies for Insurers CPPI.
maintaining pressure on firms to treat customers fairly.
150 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 playing a full role as an international leader in financial providers or intermediaries and engage in similar styles of business regulation.
with similar types of customer.
Solvency II, which remains central to our engagement with The sub-classes are based on the activities a firm undertakes the FSA as the industry and the regulator prepare for the and are aligned to their FSA permissions.
A firm could be application of this new regulatory regime.
allocated to one or more sub-classes according to the activities that it undertakes.
In the event of a failure of a market Outside of the UK, each Aviva business is regulated by its own participant, the Authorised Firms in the Group could be required national regulator s. However, overseas operations are also to make contributions to compensate investors.
It should be within the remit of the FSA for two main reasons: noted that such contributions are not restricted to failures in the The structure of the Group means that the great majority sub-classes to which a particular firm belongs, as there is the of the overseas operations are owned, ultimately, by Aviva potential for cross-subsidy between sub-classes to be required.
International Insurance Ltd AII, a UK regulated insurance Restrictions on business company.
In its regulation of AII, the FSA has an interest in the FSA rules restrict an insurance company from carrying on any systems and controls by which the Group manages its overseas commercial business other than insurance business and activities businesses, to mitigate the risk of financial shocks arising overseas directly arising from that business.
Therefore, the FSA authorised flowing through to the UK.
insurance companies in the Group are bound by this restriction.
The FSA monitors the strategy and performance of the Groups international businesses through its programme of Long-term assets and liabilities regular close and continuous meetings.
Where a UK insurer carries on life insurance business, its longThe FSA aims to play a leading role in the development of term business assets and liabilities i. e. those assets and liabilities both EU and international regulation.
It is, in particular, at the relating to life and health insurance policies must be segregated vanguard of the movement towards risk-based insurance from the assets and liabilities attributable to non-life insurance regulation.
In line with this the FSA continues to place increasing business or to shareholders.
Separate accounting and other weight on the Treating Customers Fairly principle.
records must be maintained and a separate fund established to hold all receipts of long-term business.
Intervention and enforcement The extent to which long-term fund assets may be used for The FSA has extensive powers to investigate and intervene in the purposes other than long-term business is restricted by the FSA affairs of Authorised Firms and is obliged under FSMA to monitor rules.
Only the established surplus, which is the excess of assets compliance with the requirements imposed by, and to enforce the over liabilities in the long-term fund as determined by actuarial provisions of, FSMA, related secondary legislation and the rules investigation, may be transferred so as to be available for other made thereunder.
Restrictions also apply to the payment of dividends by The FSAs enforcement powers, which may be exercised the insurance company, as described below.
FSA rules also require against both Authorised Firms and Approved Persons, include insurers to maintain sufficient assets in the separate long-term public censure, imposition of unlimited fines and, in serious cases, insurance fund to cover the actuarially determined value of the the variation or revocation of permission to carry on regulated insurance liabilities.
activities or of an Approved Persons status.
The FSA may also vary or revoke an Authorised Firms permissions to protect the interests Distribution of profits and with-profits business of consumers or potential consumers, if the Authorised Firm has For UK authorised life insurers carrying on with-profits business, not engaged in regulated activity for 12 months, or if it is failing the FSAs rules require that once an allocation of surplus in a to meet the threshold conditions for authorisation.
The FSA has with-profits fund has been made to policyholders, no transfer of further powers to obtain injunctions against Authorised Persons assets representing any part of a subsequent surplus can be and to impose or seek restitution orders where consumers have made, to shareholders or otherwise, unless either the relevant suffered loss.
minimum as defined in the FSA Handbook of the surplus has In addition to applying sanctions for market abuse, the FSA been allocated to policyholders or a statutory notification has the power to prosecute criminal offences arising under FSMA procedure has been followed.
Calculation of the relevant and insider dealing under Part V of the Criminal Justice Act 1993, minimum is based on the percentage of the relevant surplus and breaches of money laundering regulations.
The FSAs stated previously allocated to eligible policyholders.
policy is to pursue criminal prosecution in all appropriate cases.
Reporting requirements The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS FSA rules require insurance companies to file their audited annual The FSCS is intended to compensate individuals and small accounts, statements of financial position and life insurers annual businesses for claims against an Authorised Firm where the reports from the actuary performing the actuarial function with Authorised Firm is unable or unlikely to be able to meet those the regulator.
There is also a requirement to report the annual claims generally, when it is insolvent or has gone out of solvency position of the insurance companys ultimate parent.
Under a new funding system that started on 1 April The FSA uses the annual return to monitor the solvency i. e. 2008, for the purposes of funding FSCS compensation costs, the the ability to meet current and future obligations such as claims FSCS levy is split into five broad classes: payments to policyholders of the insurance company.
For general Deposits insurance business, the return is also used to assess retrospectively Long-term insurance and pensions the adequacy of the companys claims provisions.
The directors of General insurance an insurance company are required to sign a certificate, which Investments includes a statement as to whether the company has maintained Home finance the required minimum margin of solvency throughout the year.
The directors must also certify that the company has completed With the exception of the deposits class, each broad class is its return to the FSA properly in accordance with the FSAs divided into two sub-classes based on provider intermediation instructions, and that the directors are satisfied that the company activities.
Each of the sub-classes is made up of firms which are Shareholder information 151 Performance review Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information has complied in all material respects with the requirements set out on a number of issues including consumer protection, licensing, in the FSA rules.
solvency and changes in insurance company control.
The American Council of Life Insurers ACLI has, in the past, proposed UK winding up rules an optional federal charter OFC under which life insurers could The general insolvency laws and regulations applicable to UK choose to be federally regulated instead of state regulated.
companies are modified in certain respects in relation to UK However, the OFC has not been widely supported or adopted.
insurance companies, where direct insurance claims will have In 2010 Congress passed a law adopting significant federal priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors with the regulatory reforms for the financial services industry in the US.
exception of preferred creditors, including reinsurance creditors, The new law will impose stricter prudential standards on on a winding up by the court or a creditors voluntary winding up systemically significant financial companies, higher risk financial of the insurance company.
Furthermore, instead of making a activities and introduce new mechanisms for resolving failures of winding-up order when an insurance company has been proved significant financial companies.
The law requires additional stress unable to pay its debts, a UK court may reduce the amount of testing and reporting on a regular basis.
In addition, a Federal one or more of the insurance companys contracts on terms and Insurance Office FIO has been established within the Treasury subject to conditions if any which the court considers fit.
Where Department to monitor the insurance industry, co-ordinate an insurance company is in financial difficulties but not in federal policy and, along with the US Trade Representative, enter liquidation, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme may into international agreements on prudential insurance matters.
take measures to secure the transfer of all or part of the business While the FIO will have no direct regulatory authority over the to another insurance company.
business of insurance such international agreements could preFSMA provides further protection to policyholders of empt inconsistent state insurance laws.
The FIO will also be insurance companies effecting or carrying out contracts of longrequired to conduct a study of how to improve and modernise term insurance.
Unless the court orders otherwise, a liquidator insurance regulation and report to Congress within one year.
The and or administrator must carry on the insurers business so far as new law does not currently have any immediate and significant it consists of carrying out the insurers contracts of long-term impact on the Company and the FIO is still in the process of being insurance with a view to it being transferred as a going concern organised.
However, we continue to monitor the FIO and related to a person who may lawfully carry out those contracts.
carrying on the business, the liquidator administrator may agree Additionally, there is active discussion within the NAIC of to the variation of any contracts of insurance in existence when moving to a principles-based valuation system for the setting of the winding-up order is made, but must not effect any new reserves and capital for life insurance companies.
This could contracts of insurance.
change our statutory reserve and capital requirements significantly and it is not possible to estimate the impact on our financial United States condition and results of operation at this time.
We write life and annuity business in the United States through Aviva USA, a wholly owned subsidiary formed by the merger of Risk-based capital Aviva Life Insurance Company of America with AmerUS which it The NAIC has developed risk-based capital standards for life acquired in July 2006.
Aviva USA is domiciled in Iowa and licensed insurance companies as well as a model act for state legislatures to conduct business in all 50 states.
In New York it operates a to enact.
The model act requires that life insurance companies wholly owned subsidiary, Aviva Life Insurance Company of report on a formula-based, risk-based capital standard that they New York.
calculate by applying factors to various asset, premium and The US insurance industry is regulated primarily on a statereserve items.
The formula takes into account the risk by-state basis therefore individual states have authority to pass characteristics of a company, including asset risk, insurance risk, statutes, adopt regulation or issue directives to regulate insurance interest rate risk and business risk.
The NAIC designed the formula activities within their jurisdiction.
as an early-warning tool to identify potentially inadequately Consequently, life insurance companies are subject to capitalised companies for the purposes of initiating regulatory regulation both in the state in which they are domiciled as well as in action.
The model act imposes broad confidentiality requirements each of the individual states in which they operate.
State regulation on those engaged in the insurance business including insurers, can vary in detail from state to state.
All have laws and regulations agents, brokers and others and on state insurance departments covering the financial aspects of the insurance business including as to the use and publication of risk-based capital data.
standards of solvency, reserves reinsurance and capital adequacy.
Any state adopting the model act gives the state insurance In addition, most states have specific regulation governing licensing commissioner explicit regulatory authority to require various and the conduct of selling agents as well as the approval of actions by, or take various actions against, insurance companies products and associated product forms and literature.
whose adjusted capital does not meet minimum risk-based capital standards.
The Iowa Insurance Commissioner takes into account Federal initiatives the NAICs risk-based capital standards to determine adequate While the National Association of Insurance Commissioners compliance with Iowa insurance law.
NAIC has no statutory powers, its members are the insurance Effective 31 December 2005, the NAIC implemented new commissioners in each state and it acts as a forum to develop and requirements, referred to as C-3 Phase II, for calculating riskpropose model laws and regulations.
Each state then decides based capital in connection with variable annuity products with whether to adopt the NAIC model laws or regulations and each death and living benefit guarantees.
These changes did not have state may make changes to the adoption process.
However, the a material effect on our US operations, and at 31 December models are generally widely adopted.
An example is the 2010, the Companys total adjusted capital under the NAICs Suitability in Annuity Transactions Model Act which has been definition substantially exceeded Iowa standards.
widely adopted by states for a broad range of transactions.
NAIC has a commitment to modernising the state-based system of insurance regulation and is pushing forward an action plan aimed at achieving consistency of approach between states 152 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Canada We write property and casualty business in Canada via a number of wholly owned companies.
Insurance business in Canada is regulated federally by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions OSFI with the focus very much on prudential supervision, i. e. capital adequacy, solvency, etc.
OSFI derives its powers from the federal Insurance Companies Act Canada which governs the structure and operation of federally incorporated insurance companies.
The capital adequacy of insurance companies is monitored under the Minimum Capital Test MCT a risk-based framework allowing for capital to be assessed on the basis of an individual companys risk profile taking account of the investments held and insurance business being written.
Companies have their own internal MCT target as well as being expected to maintain capital in excess of 150% of the OSFI minimum requirement.
There are also ten individual provincial regulators each regulating predominantly conduct of business issues such as policy terms and conditions, pricing and underwriting of companies they have licensed to write business in the province.
Asia Pacific We operate within the Asia Pacific region through a network of subsidiary companies either wholly owned or established as a joint venture with a local partner.
Our business in the region is predominately long-term and savings business, with small general insurance and health operations.
There are wholly owned businesses in Singapore and Hong Kong.
Aviva operates in China, India, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Korea, Indonesia and Vietnam which, depending on the nature and extent of the control we are able to exert, are either accounted for as subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates.
The Asia Pacific region is made up of a number of widely differing and independent markets.
The markets tend to be at different stages in their development but each has its own regulatory structures and Aviva complies with the local regulation in each of the countries in which it operates.
Industry regulation across the region typically focuses on financial stability, i. e. minimum capital and the basis for calculating solvency, reserves and policyholder liability.
In many of the markets across the region regulators have the power to revoke operating licences, regulate shareholder structures and the participation in and the payment of dividends.
Markets within the region are moving quickly to modernise insurance regulation with an increasing focus on governance and conduct of business.
Intellectual property Our primary brands in the UK Aviva, RAC are registered trade marks in the UK and elsewhere.
Aviva owns approximately 300 registered or pending marks in the UK, including Community trade marks having effect in the entire EU.
Aviva has an active programme of review of marks and watching for infringements.
There are no material infringements in the UK known to us as at the date of this report, either by the Group or third parties.
