232 Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23 Loans continued b Collateral The Group holds collateral in respect of loans where it is considered appropriate, in order to reduce the risk of non-recovery.
This collateral generally takes the form of liens or charges over properties and, in the case of policy loans, the underlying policy, for the majority of the loan balances above.
In all other situations, the collateral must be in a readily realisable form, such as listed securities, and is held in segregated accounts.
Transfer of title for the collateral received always occurs in such cases, although no market risk or benefit is taken.
In the event of a default, the Group is able to sell or repledge the collateral.
The amount of collateral received with respect to loans which the Group is permitted to sell or repledge in the absence of default was 4,542 million 2009: 3,685 million.
No collateral was actually sold or repledged in the absence of default during the year 2009: nil.
24 Securitised mortgages and related assets The Group has loans receivable, secured by mortgages, which have then been securitised through non-recourse borrowings, in our UK Life and Dutch businesses.
This note gives details of the relevant transactions.
a Description of arrangements i United Kingdom In a long-term business subsidiary, Aviva Equity Release UK Limited AER, the beneficial interest in certain portfolios of lifetime mortgages has been transferred to five special purpose securitisation companies the ERF companies, in return for initial consideration and, at later dates, deferred consideration.
The deferred consideration represents receipts accrued within the ERF companies after meeting all their obligations to the note holders, loan providers and other third parties in the priority of payments.
The purchases of the mortgages were funded by the issue of fixed and floating rate notes by the ERF companies.
All the shares in the ERF companies are held by independent companies, whose shares are held on trust.
Although AER does not own, directly or indirectly, any of the share capital of the ERF companies or their parent companies, it retains control of the majority of the residual or ownership risks and rewards related to the assets of the securitisation companies, and they have therefore been treated as subsidiaries in the consolidated financial statements.
AER has no right to repurchase the benefit of any of the securitised mortgage loans, other than in certain circumstances where AER is in breach of warranty or loans are substituted in order to effect a further advance.
AER has purchased subordinated notes and granted subordinated loans to some of the ERF companies.
These have been eliminated on consolidation through offset against the borrowings of the ERF companies in the consolidated statement of financial position.
ii Delta Lloyd In three subsidiaries, Delta Lloyd Levensverzekering NV DLL, Amstelhuys NV AMS, and Delta Lloyd Bank Belgium NV SA DLB, the principal benefits of certain portfolios of mortgage loans have been transferred to a number of special purpose securitisation companies, which were funded primarily through the issue of fixed and floating rate notes.
All the shares in the securitisation companies are held by independent trustee companies.
Although DLL, AMS and DLB do not own, directly or indirectly, any of the share capital of the securitisation companies or their parent companies, they retain control of the majority of the residual or ownership risks and rewards related to the assets of the securitisation companies, and these companies have therefore been treated as subsidiaries in the consolidated financial statements.
DLL, AMS and DLB have no right, nor any obligation, to repurchase the benefit of any of the securitised mortgage loans before the optional call date, other than in certain circumstances where they are in breach of warranty.
Delta Lloyd companies have purchased notes in the securitisation companies, which have been eliminated on consolidation through offset against the borrowings of the securitisation companies in the consolidated statement of financial position.
iii General In all of the above transactions, the Company and its subsidiaries are not obliged to support any losses that may be suffered by the note holders and do not intend to provide such support.
Additionally, the notes were issued on the basis that note holders are only entitled to obtain payment, of both principal and interest, to the extent that the available resources of the respective special purpose securitisation companies, including funds due from customers in respect of the securitised loans, are sufficient and that note holders have no recourse whatsoever to other companies in the Aviva Group.
Financial statements IFRS 233 Performance review Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 24 Securitised mortgages and related assets continued b Carrying values The following table summarises the securitisation arrangements: 2010 2009 Securitised Securitised Securitised Securitised assets borrowings assets borrowings m m m m UK Securitised mortgage loans At fair value note 23 1,912 1,464 1,840 1,444 Other securitisation assets liabilities 130 578 396 2,042 2,042 1,840 1,840 Delta Lloyd Securitised mortgage loans At fair value note 23 5,249 4,216 5,544 4,441 At amortised cost note 23 1,155 1,924 1,770 2,656 6,404 6,140 7,314 7,097 Other securitisation assets liabilities 264 217 6,404 6,404 7,314 7,314 Loan notes held by third parties are as follows: 2010 2009 Delta UK Lloyd UK Delta Lloyd m m m m Total loan notes issued, as above 1,464 6,140 1,444 7,097 Less: Loan notes held by Group companies 176 1,095 1,212 Loan notes held by third parties note 49c 1,288 5,045 1,444 5,885 Of the total UK commercial mortgage loans, 215 million 2009: 46 million relates to primary healthcare and PFI businesses and is secured against General Practitioner premises, other primary health-related premises or schools leased to government bodies.
For all such loans, government support is provided through reimbursement of rental payments to the tenants to meet income service and provide for the debt to be reduced substantially over the term of the loan.
Although the loan principal is not , the nature of these businesses and premises provides considerable comfort of an ongoing business model and low risk of default.
