298 Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57 Risk management continued Our businesses are primarily responsible for identifying and managing operational risks in line with minimum standards of control set out in our policies.
Each operational risk is assessed by considering the potential impact and the probability of the event occurring.
Impact assessments are considered against financial, operational and reputation criteria.
Business management teams must be satisfied that all material risks falling outside our risk appetite are being mitigated, monitored and reported to an appropriate level.
Any risks with a high potential impact level are monitored centrally on a regular basis.
Businesses use key indicator data to help monitor the status of the risk and control environment.
They also identify and capture loss events: taking appropriate action to address actual control breakdowns and promote internal learning from these occurrences.
The Operational Risk Committee ORC oversees the Groups aggregate operational risk exposure on behalf of the Group Executive Committee.
It makes recommendations on the risk appetite that the Group can work within for operational risk, assesses and monitors overall operational risk exposures, identifying any concentrations of operational risk across the Group, and in particular verifies that mitigating action plans are implemented.
The ORC operates a number of sub-committees which focus on specific areas of operational risk including customer, brand, business protection, IT, people, legal and regulatory compliance.
g Brand and reputation risk We are dependent on the strength of our brands, the brands of our partners and our reputation with customers and agents in the sale of our products and services.
Our success and results are, to a certain extent, dependent on the strength of our global Aviva brand and reputation.
While we as a group are well recognised, we are vulnerable to adverse market and customer perception.
We operate in an industry where integrity, customer trust and confidence are paramount.
We are exposed to the risk that litigation, employee misconduct, operational failures, the outcome of regulatory investigations, media speculation and negative publicity, disclosure of confidential client information, inadequate services, amongst others, whether or not founded, could impact our brands or reputation.
Any of our brands or our reputation could also be affected if products or services recommended by us or any of our intermediaries do not perform as expected whether or not the expectations are founded or the customers expectations for the product change.
One of the FSAs strategic objectives is to help customers get a fair deal through its treating customers fairly principle.
Examples of treating customers fairly include: products and services targeted to meet customers needs and which perform in line with what customers have been led to expect: clear information and advice where relevant : good service: and making sure there are no unfair barriers that prevent customers from getting access to their money, changing products or making a successful insurance claim.
The FSA regularly checks that we are meeting the requirement to treat our customers fairly and we make use of various metrics to assess our own performance, including customer advocacy, retention and complaints.
Failure to meet these requirements could also impact our brands or reputation.
If we do not manage successfully the perception of our brands and reputation, it could cause existing customers or agents to withdraw from our business and potential customers or agents to be reluctant or elect not to do business with us.
This would adversely impact our business and results of operations.
h Risk and capital management Sensitivity test analysis The Group uses a number of sensitivity test-based risk management tools to understand the volatility of earnings, the volatility of its capital requirements, and to manage its capital more efficiently.
Sensitivities to economic and operating experience are regularly produced on all of the Groups financial performance measurements to inform the Groups decision making and planning processes, and as part of the framework for identifying and quantifying the risks to which each of its business units, and the Group as a whole, are exposed.
For long-term business in particular, sensitivities of MCEV performance indicators to changes in both economic and non-economic experience are continually used to manage the business and to inform the decision making process.
More information on MCEV sensitivities can be found in the presentation of results on an MCEV basis in the supplementary section of this report.
Life insurance and investment contracts The nature of long-term business is such that a number of assumptions are made in compiling these financial statements.
Assumptions are made about investment returns, expenses, mortality rates and persistency in connection with the in-force policies for each business unit.
Assumptions are best estimates based on historic and expected experience of the business.
A number of the key assumptions for the Groups central scenario are disclosed elsewhere in these statements for both IFRS reporting and reporting under MCEV methodology.
General insurance and health business General insurance and health claim liabilities are estimated by using standard actuarial claims projection techniques.
These methods extrapolate the claims development for each accident year based on the observed development of earlier years.
In most cases, no explicit assumptions are made as projections are based on assumptions implicit in the historic claims.
