Financial statements IFRS 281 Performance review Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 52 Contingent liabilities and other risk factors This note sets out the main areas of uncertainty over the calculation of our liabilities.
a Uncertainty over claims provisions Note 39 gives details of the estimation techniques used by the Group to determine the general business outstanding claims provisions and of the methodology and assumptions used in determining the long-term business provisions.
These approaches are designed to allow for the appropriate cost of policy-related liabilities, with a degree of prudence, to give a result within the normal range of outcomes.
To the extent that the ultimate cost falls outside this range, for example where experience is worse than that assumed, or future general business claims inflation differs from that expected, there is uncertainty in respect of these liabilities.
b Asbestos, pollution and social environmental hazards In the course of conducting insurance business, various companies within the Group receive general insurance liability claims, and become involved in actual or threatened related litigation arising therefrom, including claims in respect of pollution and other environmental hazards.
Amongst these are claims in respect of asbestos production and handling in various jurisdictions, including Europe, Canada and Australia.
Given the significant delays that are experienced in the notification of these claims, the potential number of incidents which they cover and the uncertainties associated with establishing liability and the availability of reinsurance, the ultimate cost cannot be determined with certainty.
However, on the basis of current information having regard to the level of provisions made for general insurance claims, the directors consider that any additional costs arising are not likely to have a material impact on the financial position of the Group.
c Guarantees on long-term savings products As a normal part of their operating activities, various Group companies have given guarantees and options, including interest rate guarantees, in respect of certain long-term insurance and fund management products.
Note 41 gives details of these guarantees and options.
In providing these guarantees and options, the Groups capital position is sensitive to fluctuations in financial variables including foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, property values and equity prices.
Interest rate guaranteed returns, such as those available on guaranteed annuity options GAOs, are sensitive to interest rates falling below the guaranteed level.
Other guarantees, such as maturity value guarantees and guarantees in relation to minimum rates of return, are sensitive to fluctuations in the investment return below the level assumed when the guarantee was made.
The directors continue to believe that the existing provisions for such guarantees and options are sufficient.
d Regulatory compliance The Groups insurance and investment business is subject to local regulation in each of the countries in which it operates.
The FSA regulates the Groups UK business and in addition monitors the financial resources and organisation of the Group as a whole.
The FSA has broad powers including the authority to grant, vary the terms of, or cancel a regulated firms authorisation: to investigate marketing and sales practices: and to require the maintenance of adequate financial resources.
The Groups regulators outside the UK typically have similar powers but in some cases they operate a system of prior product approval and hence place less emphasis than the FSA on regulating sales and marketing practices.
The Groups regulated businesses have compliance resources to respond to regulatory enquiries in a constructive way, and take corrective action when warranted.
However, all regulated financial services companies face the risk that their regulator could find that they have failed to comply with applicable regulations or have not undertaken corrective action as required.
The impact of any such finding whether in the UK or overseas could have a negative impact on the Groups reported results or on its relations with current and potential customers.
Regulatory action against a member of the Group could result in adverse publicity for, or negative perceptions regarding, the Group, or could have a material adverse effect on the business of the Group, its results of operations and or financial condition and divert managements attention from the day-to-day management of the business.
e European legislative change In 2010, a test case was taken to the European Court of Justice to rule on the current law and practice whereby insurers may take into account a persons gender in the assessment of risk and consequently the pricing of insurance products, the ruling for which was issued on 1 March 2011.
We are currently unable to quantify the impact on our existing insurance provisions.
f Payment protection insurance PPI mis-selling In September 2009, the FSA launched an investigation into sales practices for payment protection insurance.
On 10 August 2010, the FSA announced that mis-selling of PPI policies had been widespread and that consumers who could prove mis-selling would be entitled to financial redress from distributors of the policies.
However, in October 2010, on behalf of distributors, the British Bankers Association elected to seek a judicial review of this ruling and no conclusion of this legal process has yet been reached.
The directors do not consider that the Group is liable for mis-selling in its role as underwriter and so no provision is currently necessary.
g Structured settlements In Canada, annuities have been purchased from licensed Canadian life insurers to provide for fixed and recurring payments to claimants.
As a result of these arrangements, the Group is exposed to credit risk to the extent that any of the life insurers fail to fulfil their obligations.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk for these arrangements is approximately 683 million as at 31 December 2010 2009: 984 million based on estimated replacement cost for the underlying annuities.
The 2010 structured settlement exposure valuation used revised shorter life expectancy tables, resulting in a large reduction over the prior year.
The credit risk is managed by acquiring annuities from a diverse portfolio of life insurers with proven financial stability.
The risk is reduced to the extent of coverage provided by Assuris, the Canadian life insurance industry compensation plan.
No information has come to the Groups attention that would suggest any weakness or failure in the Canadian life insurers from which it has purchased annuities.
