Financial statements IFRS 215 Performance review Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 15 Dividends and appropriations This note analyses the total dividends and other appropriations we have paid during the year.
The table below does not include the final dividend proposed after the year end because it is not accrued in these financial statements.
The impact of shares issued in lieu of dividends is shown separately in note 36.
2010 2009 m m Ordinary dividends declared and charged to equity in the year Final 2009 15.00 pence per share, paid on 17 May 2010 415 Final 2008 19.91 pence per share, paid on 15 May 2009 527 Interim 2010 9.50 pence per share, paid on 17 November 2010 266 Interim 2009 9.00 pence per share, paid on 17 November 2009 248 681 775 Preference dividends declared and charged to equity in the year 17 17 Coupon payments on direct capital instruments 59 61 757 853 Subsequent to 31 December 2010, the directors proposed a final dividend for 2010 of 16.0 pence per ordinary share 2009: 15.0 pence, amounting to 451 million 2009: 415 million in total.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM, the dividend will be paid on 17 May 2011 and will be accounted for as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ending 31 December 2011.
Interest on the direct capital instruments issued in November 2004 is treated as an appropriation of retained profits and, accordingly, it is accounted for when paid.
Tax relief is obtained at a rate of 28.0% 2009: 28.0%.
16 Goodwill This note analyses the changes to the carrying amount of goodwill during the year, and details the results of our impairment testing on both goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives.
a Carrying amount 2010 2009 m m Gross amount At 1 January 3,667 3,898 Acquisitions note 3a 29 5 Fair value adjustments and movements in contingent consideration 4 48 Disposals 4 9 Amounts expensed in the year 30 Foreign exchange rate movements 245 17 At 31 December 3,671 3,667 Accumulated impairment At 1 January 286 315 Other impairment losses charged to expenses 3 Write back of impairment related to disposals 3 Foreign exchange rate movements 9 26 At 31 December 280 286 Carrying amount at 1 January 3,381 3,583 Carrying amount at 31 December 3,391 3,381 Goodwill impairment charges of 3 million have been recognised as expenses.
Together with impairment charges of 9 million recognised in respect of goodwill within interests in joint ventures note 18 and 12 million recognised in respect of goodwill within interests in associates note 19, the total goodwill write down for the year is 24 million.
Movements in contingent consideration relate to contingent consideration paid or received in respect of acquisitions of subsidiaries prior to 1 January 2010.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions completed before 1 January 1998 was charged directly to reserves.
Goodwill arising on the Groups acquisition of joint ventures and associates is included within the carrying value of those investments see notes 18 and 19.
216 Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 16 Goodwill continued b Goodwill allocation and impairment testing A summary of the goodwill and intangibles with indefinite useful lives allocated to cash-generating units is presented below.
Carrying amount of intangibles Carrying amount of with indefinite useful lives goodwill detailed in note 17 Total 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m m m United Kingdom Long-term business see i below 29 31 29 31 General insurance, RAC and health see ii below 1,208 1,208 201 201 1,409 1,409 Europe France long-term business see iii below 53 55 53 55 Ireland Long-term business see iv below 118 122 118 122 General insurance and health see v below 119 121 119 121 Italy Long-term business see vi below 65 65 65 65 General insurance and health see vii below 56 58 56 58 Delta Lloyd see viii below 307 319 307 319 Spain long-term business see ix below 556 580 556 580 Other 12 15 12 15 North America United States long-term business see x below 795 770 795 770 United States fund management 28 28 Canada 44 42 44 42 Asia Pacific Various 54 50 54 50 3,391 3,381 254 256 3,645 3,637 As explained in accounting policy N, the carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is reviewed at least annually or when circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over this value.
The tests led to impairment of goodwill of 3 million in 2010 2009: nil.
Goodwill and intangibles with indefinite useful lives have been tested for impairment in these businesses as follows: United Kingdom i Long-term business The UK long-term business goodwill balance is split across two cash-generating units, with no individual balance exceeding 20 million.
As part of the annual review of goodwill, management have considered the recoverability of the goodwill balance associated with the UK Creditor Life business.
As a result of a change in the nature of products sold by that business, management have concluded that the goodwill is no longer fully recoverable and an impairment of 2 million has been recognised as an expense during the year.
ii General insurance, RAC and health The recoverable amount of the UK General Insurance, RAC and health business exceeds the carrying value of the cash-generating unit including goodwill.
The recoverable amount of the UK general insurance, RAC and health unit has been determined based on a value in use calculation.
The calculation uses cash flow projections based on business plans approved by management covering a three-year period.
Cash flows beyond that three-year period have been extrapolated using a steady 2.5% growth rate and a risk-adjusted discount rate of 9.3%.
This growth rate is set with regards to past experience and historical statistics of UK premium growth published by the Association of British Insurers.
Key assumptions used for the calculation were: Budgeted operating profit represents the operating profit in the business plans, approved by management, and as such reflects the best estimate of future profits based on both historical experience and expected growth rates for the relevant UK industry sectors: Some of the assumptions that underline the budgeted operating profit include market share, customer numbers, premium rate and fee income changes, claims inflation and commission rates: and Growth rates represent the rates used to extrapolate future cash flows beyond the business plan period and have been based upon latest information available regarding future and past growth rates, including external sources of data such as ABI Annual Market Statistics.
Europe Long-term business The recoverable amount of long-term business cash-generating units in the Europe region has been determined based on a value in use calculation.
The first step of the test was to compare the carrying value of each cash-generating unit, including goodwill, to the Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV of that cash-generating unit.
If the MCEV is less than the carrying value of a cash generating unit the present value of profits from expected new business for that cash-generating unit is considered.
If the value of profits from expected new business for a cash-generating unit is expected to grow beyond the period of the initial plan, this growth rate is set with regard to past experience in each market and market expectations of future growth in each country.
Financial statements IFRS 217 Performance review Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 16 Goodwill continued For European long-term business cash-generating units a key assumption used for the calculation was the embedded value which represents the shareholder interest in the life business and is calculated in accordance with the Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV principles.
The embedded value is the total of the net worth and the value of the in-force life business.
General insurance, health and other The recoverable amount of general insurance, health and other non-life cash-generating units in the Europe region has been determined based on a value in use calculation.
Value in use is calculated for each cash-generating unit using a discounted cash flow projection based on business plans and growth assumptions approved by management for each cash-generating unit and discounted at a risk discount rate appropriate for each cash-generating unit.
If the cash flows are expected to grow beyond the period of the initial plan, this growth rate is set with regard to past experience in each market and market expectations of future growth in each country.
iii France long-term business The recoverable amount of the indefinite life intangible asset has been assessed as part of the recoverable amount of the French longterm business cash-generating unit.
The MCEV of the French long-term business was significantly greater than its carrying value, including indefinite life intangible assets.
iv Ireland long-term business The recoverable amount of the Irish long-term business exceeds the carrying value of the cash-generating unit including goodwill.
This calculation is an actuarially determined appraisal value and is based on the embedded value of the business together with the present value of expected profits from future new business.
Key assumptions in addition to MCEV principles used for the calculation were: New business contribution represents the present value of projected future profits generated from business written in a period.
This is initially based on the most recent three-year business plans approved by management: Growth rate represents the rate used to extrapolate new business contributions beyond the business plan period, and is based on managements estimate of no future growth in annual cash flows: Discount rate of 5% represents the rate used to discount expected profits from future new business.
The discount rate is a combination of a risk-free rate and a risk margin to make prudent allowance for the risk that experience in future years for new business may differ from that assumed.
The MCEV principles applied to project future cash flows include allowance for many of the risks associated with these cash flows, and therefore these risks are not also reflected in the discount rate applied to calculate a present value of future cash flows.
v Ireland general insurance and health The recoverable amount of the Irish general insurance and health business exceeds the carrying value of the cash-generating unit including goodwill.
Key assumptions used for the calculation were: Budgeted operating profit for an initial three-year period which represents the operating profit in the business plans, approved by management and reflecting the best estimate of future profits based on both historical experience and expected growth rates for the Irish economy.
The assumptions that underline the budgeted operating profit include market share, premium rate changes, claims inflation and commission rates: Future cash flows are extrapolated beyond the three-year business plan period assuming nil growth for general insurance business and a 7% growth rate for the health business: and A risk-adjusted discount rate of 10.8%.
vi Italy long-term business The recoverable amount of the Italian long-term business exceeds the carrying value of the cash-generating unit including goodwill.
This is initially based on the most recent three-year business plans approved by management: Growth rate represents the rate used to extrapolate new business contributions beyond the business plan period, and is based on managements estimate of future growth of 3%: and Discount rate of 6.5% represents the rate used to discount expected profits from future new business.
vii Italy non-life The recoverable amount exceeds the carrying value of the cash-generating unit including goodwill.
Key assumptions used for the calculation were: Budgeted operating profit for an initial three-year period represents the operating profit in the most recent business plans, approved by management and as such reflects the best estimate of future profits based on both historical experience and expected growth rates for the Italian economy: Growth rate of 3% represents the rate used to extrapolate future cash flows beyond the business plan period: and A risk-adjusted discount rate of 10.8%.
218 Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 16 Goodwill continued viii Delta Lloyd long-term, general insurance, health and fund management The recoverable amount of Delta Lloyd exceeds the carrying value of the cash-generating unit including goodwill.
The recoverable amount of the Delta Lloyd life and general insurance and health cash-generating units has been determined on the basis of a value in use calculation.
This calculation is an appraisal value and is based on the discounted expected future cash flows from the operations over their expected useful life.
Expected cash flows for future periods have been obtained from the plan figures for a three-to-five-year period, depending on the management plan period of the unit.
Expected cash flows for later periods have been extrapolated, taking into account the growth rate.
Key assumptions used for the calculation were: Expected cash flows for future periods have been obtained from the plan figures for a three-to-five-year period: For the year following the end of the management plan period cash flows are extrapolated at a growth rate of nil to 3.7% depending on the particular circumstances of each unit: and Risk-adjusted discount rate of 9.9% to 10.7%, depending on managements assessment of the specific risks of each unit, represents the rate used to discount expected profits from future new business.
ix Spain long-term business The recoverable amount of the Spanish long-term business exceeds the carrying value of the cash-generating unit including goodwill.
This is initially based on the most recent three-year business plans approved by management: Growth rate represents the rate used to extrapolate new business contributions beyond the business plan period, and is based on managements conservative estimate of future growth of 3%: and Risk-adjusted discount rate of 5.6% represents the rate used to discount expected profits from future new business.
The MCEV principles applied to project future cash flows include allowance for many of the risks associated with these cash flows, and therefore these risks are not also reflected in the discount rate applied to reach a present value.
In addition to estimating the recoverable value of the Spain cash-generating unit, management have considered the terms of the contractual arrangements with bancassurance partners.
Management have concluded that, under a range of reasonably possible scenarios, the contractual terms support the recoverability of the carrying value of the cash-generating unit.
x United States long-term business The recoverable amount of the United States long-term business exceeds the carrying value of the cash-generating unit including goodwill.
The recoverable amount of the United States long-term cash-generating unit has been determined based on a value in use calculation.
This calculation is an actuarially determined appraisal value and is based on an embedded value of the business the total of the net worth of the life business and the value of the in-force business together with the present value of expected profits from future new business.
Key assumptions used for the calculation were: Embedded value represents the shareholder interest in the life business and is based on projected cash flows of the business including expected investment returns: Risk-adjusted discount rate of 8% is used to calculate the embedded value: New business contribution represents the present value of projected future profits generated from business written in a period.
This is initially based on the most recent three-year business plans approved by management: Growth rate represents the rate used to extrapolate new business contributions beyond the business plan period, and is based on managements estimate of future growth of 5% for life and annuity business, which is set with regard to past experience in these markets: and Risk-adjusted discount rate of 10% represents the rate used to discount expected profits from future new business.
The discount rate includes an additional margin to make prudent allowance for the risk that experience in future years for new business may differ from that assumed.
Cash flow projections To comply with paragraph 33 c of IAS 36, cash flow projections for the period beyond the three-year plan period are extrapolated from the position in the final year of the three-year plan period.
In all cases, we have assumed a positive or nil steady growth rate for subsequent years, not an increasing growth rate.
The steady growth rate selected for each cash-generating unit reflects long-term expectations for the markets in which each cash-generating unit participates.
Impairment tests for all cash-generating units have been performed using assumptions which management believe are reasonable.
Given the magnitude of the excess of recoverable value over carrying amount in each case, management believe that it is not reasonably possible that there would be a change in the key assumptions such that the carrying amount would exceed the recoverable value.
