140 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Services provided to other related parties Related party disclosures Related party transactions 2010 2009 2008 For more information relating to related party transactions, Income Receivable Income Receivable Income Receivable earned at year earned at year earned at year including more information about the transactions described in year end in year end in year end m m m m m m below, please see Financial Statements IFRS Note 60 Related Associates 47 49 3 61 3 party transactions.
Joint ventures 18 375 17 327 20 300 Employee Subsidiaries pension Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are schemes 10 2 9 2 24 6 eliminated on consolidation.
75 377 75 332 105 309 However, the Company has transactions and outstanding balances with certain unit trusts, Open Ended Investments Income from associates predominantly relates to our investments Companies, collateralised debt obligations and similar entities in the Royal Bank of Scotland RBS life and collective investment which are not consolidated and where a Group company acts as companies prior to their restructuring described in Financial manager.
These entities are regarded as related parties for the Statements IFRS Note 3 Subsidiaries.
Under management purposes of International Accounting Standard IAS 24.
The service agreements with these associates, our UK life insurance balances are included in the Groups statement of financial companies provided administration services, the cost of which position at fair value or amortised cost in accordance with their was recharged to the RBS companies.
In addition, our fund IAS 39 classifications.
The transactions are included in the income management companies provided fund management services to statement and include amounts paid on issue of shares or units, these associates, for which they charged fees based on the level amounts received on cancellation of shares or units and paid in of funds under management.
Movements in loans made to our respect of the periodic charge and administration fee.
associates may be found in Financial Statements IFRS Note 19 Interests in, and loans to, joint ventures.
Directors and key management Transactions with joint ventures relate to the property The total compensation to those employees classified as key management undertakings.
At 31 December 2010, there were management, being those having authority and responsibility for 16 such joint ventures, the most material of which are listed in planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, note 18 b.
Our interest in these joint ventures comprises a mix of including the executive and non-executive directors is as follows: equity and loans, together with the provision of administration services and financial management to many of them.
Our UK life 2010 2009 2008 insurance companies earn interest on loans advanced to these m m m entities and our fund management companies also charge fees to Salary and other short-term benefits 48 39 38 Post-employment benefits 8 5 3 these joint ventures for administration services and for arranging Equity compensation plans 21 16 9 external finance.
Termination benefits 4 1 3 Our UK fund management companies manage most of the Total 81 61 53 assets held by the Groups main UK staff pension scheme, for which they charge fees based on the level of funds under Various directors and key management of Aviva may from time management.
The main UK scheme and the Dutch scheme hold to time purchase insurance, asset management or annuity investments in Group-managed funds and insurance policies with products, or be granted mortgages marketed by Aviva Group other Group companies, as explained in note 48 e iii.
companies in the ordinary course of business on substantially The related parties receivables are not secured and no the same terms, including interest rates and security guarantees were received in respect thereof.
The receivables will requirements, as those prevailing at the time for comparable be settled in accordance with normal credit terms.
Details of transactions with other persons.
guarantees, indemnities and warranties provided on behalf of Apart from the disclosed transactions discussed above and related parties are given in Financial Statements IFRS Note 52 in the Governance section of this report, no director had an contingent liability and risk factors.
interest in shares, transactions or arrangements that requires disclosure under applicable rules and regulations.
Loans to joint ventures We make loans to our property management joint ventures to Other related parties fund property developments which we undertake with our joint The Group received income from other related parties from venture partners.
Movements in these loans may be found in transactions made in the normal course of business.
Loans Financial Statements IFRS Note 18 Interests in, and loans to, to other related parties are made on normal arms length joint ventures.
Total loans at 31 December 2010 and at the commercial terms.
end of each of the last three financial years are shown in the table below: 2010 2009 2008 m m m Loans to joint ventures 375 327 300 These constitute loans to joint ventures to fund shopping, business or distribution centres or properties in Europe, as well as a film studio development in the UK.
