100 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate governance report The UK Corporate Governance Code Allocation of Board agenda time % The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code is the new edition of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code and was issued by the Financial Reporting Group strategy, business plans and performance monitoring 51 Council in May 2010.
The Code is applicable to financial years Financial reporting and controls, beginning on or after 29 June 2010 and has been applied by the capital structure and Company since the start of the current financial year on 1 January dividend policy 21 Group risk management policies, 2011.
The Board have, however, opted for an early adoption of risk appetite and framework 8 some of the new provisions of the Code where it deems this to Corporate governance 9 be appropriate, including the annual re-election of directors.
Board and committee succession first time the Company will report on the Code will be in 2012, planning, constitution of Board in respect of the 2011 financial year.
This report is therefore committees, Board effectiveness based on compliance with the Combined Code which was review, committee reports and key business policies 11 applicable for the 2010 financial year and sets out details of how the Company has applied its principles and complied with The full terms of reference for the Board are available from the its provisions.
The Combined Code sets out standards of good group company secretary.
Matters that are not specifically practice in the form of principles and provisions on how reserved for the Board and its committees under its terms of companies should be directed and controlled to follow good reference, or for shareholders in general meeting, are delegated governance practice.
The Financial Services Authority FSA to the group chief executive.
The Boards terms of reference also requires companies listed in the UK to disclose, in relation to set out those matters that must be reported to the Board, such as section 1 of the Combined Code, how they have applied its significant litigation or material regulatory breaches, and cover principles and whether they have complied with its provisions how matters requiring consideration by the Board that arise throughout the accounting period.
Where the provisions have between scheduled meetings should be dealt with.
not been complied with, companies must provide an explanation The Board and its committees operate in line with work plans for this.
agreed prior to the start of each year.
At Board and committee It is the Boards view that the Company has been fully meetings, directors receive regular reports on the Groups compliant throughout the accounting period with the provisions financial position, risk management, regulatory compliance, set down in section 1 of the Combined Code.
Further information key business operations and other material issues.
Directors are on the Code and Combined Code can be found on the Financial fully briefed in advance of Board and committee meetings on Reporting Councils website, www.
uk all matters to be discussed.
The group company secretary is responsible for following Board procedures and advising the The Board Board, through the chairman, on governance matters.
The directors are responsible to shareholders for ensuring that All directors have access to her advice and services.
the Company is appropriately managed and that it achieves its The Board has adopted a procedure whereby directors may, objectives.
It meets regularly to determine the Companys in the performance of their duties, seek independent professional strategic direction, to review the Companys operating and advice at the Companys expense if considered appropriate.
financial performance, to set the Companys risk appetite and to During the year the members of the Remuneration Committee provide oversight that the Company is adequately resourced and sought independent advice from Hewitt New Bridge Street effectively controlled.
The specific duties of the Board are clearly Consultants on issues surrounding senior executive remuneration.
set out in its terms of reference that address a wide range of The Audit Committee and the Risk Committee also sought corporate governance issues and list those items that are independent advice from Keith Nicholson, a former partner at specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
Board approval include: Group strategy, business plans and performance monitoring: The directors Financial reporting and controls, capital structure and The Board currently comprises the chairman, eight independent dividend policy: non-executive directors and four executive directors.
Each nonGroup risk appetite and framework, and risk management executive director serves for a fixed term not exceeding three policies: years that may be renewed by mutual agreement.
Subject to Corporate governance: the Board being satisfied with a directors performance, Others shareholder documentation, Board and committee independence and commitment, there is no specified limit succession planning, constitution of Board committees, regarding the number of terms a director may serve.
Each director Board effectiveness review, committee reports and key is required to be elected by shareholders at the Annual General business policies.
Meeting following his her appointment by the Board and there will now be annual re-election of all directors as stated in the Board terms of reference.
Governance 101 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information considers the diversity of the Board, including gender.
The diverse Balance of executive and non-executive directors nationalities which currently make up the Board ensure an international perspective, which is invaluable for the Group as a global business.
In addition to the strengths of experience, Chairman 1 diversity and an international perspective, the Board also complies Executive directors 4 Non-executive directors 8 with the requirements of the Combined Code on the independence of directors.
The aim is that the Board as a whole should have an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to enable each director and the Board as a whole to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
Each director must be able to devote sufficient time to the role in order to discharge his or her responsibilities effectively and on average spend at least 44 days a year on company business, Gender split of directors with the chairmen of the Audit and Risk committees spending substantially more.
The process for appointing new directors is conducted by the Nomination Committee whose report, including Male 10 a description of its duties, is set out on page 109.
Female 3 The Combined Code requires that at least half the Board, excluding the chairman, should comprise independent nonexecutive directors as determined by the Board.
The Nomination Committee performs an annual review of directors interests in which all potential or perceived conflicts, including time commitments, length of service and other issues relevant to their independence, are considered.
Where a director has served on the Board for up to nine years, the Board, through the Nomination Committee, will assess whether such a director Length of tenure of non-executive directors remains independent in character and judgement.
The Board will disclose reasons why it believes that the director remains independent if the assessment reached that conclusion, 0 3 years 3 notwithstanding that the director has been on the Board for more 3 6 years 2than nine years.
6 9 years 4 It is the Boards view that an independent non-executive 9 years 0 director also needs to be able to present an objective, rigorous and constructive challenge to management, drawing on his her wider experiences to question assumptions and viewpoints and where necessary defend their beliefs.
The independent nonexecutive directors should also assist management in the development of the Companys strategy.
To be effective, an independent director needs to acquire a sound understanding Geographical mix of the industry and the Company so as to be able to evaluate properly the information provided.
Having considered the matter carefully, the Board is of the opinion that all of the current nonexecutive directors are independent and free from any UK 7 Continental Europe 3relationship or circumstances that could affect, or appear to US 1affect, their independent judgement.
Accordingly, over half of the Other 2 Board members, excluding the chairman, are independent nonexecutive directors.
All of the directors have been subject to a formal performance evaluation and took part in a peer evaluation review during 2010.
In particular, directors who have served on the Board for more than six years were subject to particularly rigorous review and there was consideration of the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
As at the date of this report, The Boards policy is to appoint and retain non-executive there are four non-executive directors who have served on the directors, who can apply their wider knowledge and experiences Board for more than six years.
More details about the directors to their understanding of the Aviva Group, and to review and standing for election and re-election at this years Annual General refresh regularly the skills and experience the Board requires Meeting are set out in the Notice of AGM and their biographical through a programme of rotational retirement.
Several nondetails are set out on pages 94 and 95.
Below is a summary of executive directors, including the Company chairman, are due to some of the skills and experience they possess which they bring to retire in 2012 and 2013, after serving on the Board for up to nine the Board.
years, in line with the Combined Code.
The Nomination Committee continued succession planning for the Board during the year to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills and experience is maintained and that there is progressive refreshing of the Board.
As part of the process for the appointment of new directors, the Nomination Committee, on behalf of the Board,
