354 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Glossary ISAs Product definitions Individual savings accounts Tax-efficient plans Annuities for investing in stocks and shares, cash deposits A type of policy that pays out regular amounts or life insurance investment funds, subject to of benefit, either immediately and for the certain limits.
Introduced in the UK in 1999. remainder of a persons lifetime, or deferred to commence from a future date.
Immediate Monolines annuities may be purchased for an individual and Financial companies specialising in a single line his or her dependants or on a bulk purchase of products such as credit cards, mortgages or basis for groups of people.
Deferred annuities home equity loans.
are accumulation contracts, which may be used to provide benefits in retirement, and may be Mortgage endowment guaranteed, unit-linked or index-linked.
An insurance contract combining savings and protection elements which is designed to repay Bonds and savings the principal of a loan or mortgage.
These are accumulation products with single or regular premiums and unit-linked or Mortgage life insurance guaranteed investment returns.
Our product A protection contract designed to pay off the ranges include single premium investment outstanding amount of a mortgage or loan bonds, regular premium savings plans and in the event of death of the insured.
Non profits Critical illness cover Long-term savings and insurance products Critical illness cover pays out a lump sum if the sold in the UK other than With profits insured person is diagnosed with a serious illness see definition below products.
that meets the plan definition.
The cover is often provided in conjunction with other benefits OEIC Open ended investment company is a collective under a protection contract.
investment fund structured as a limited company Deferred annuities in which investors can buy and sell shares.
An annuity or pension due to be paid from a future date or when the policyholder reaches a Pensions A means of providing income in retirement for specified age.
A deferred annuity may be funded by a policyholder by payment of a series of an individual and possibly his her dependants.
Our pensions products include personal and regular contributions or by a capital sum the latter often provided from a pension fund.
group pensions, stakeholder pensions and income drawdown.
Group pensions A pension plan that covers a group of people, Personal pensions A pension plan tailored to the individual which is typically purchased by a company and offered to their employees.
policyholder, which includes the options to stop, start or change their payments.
Guaranteed annuities A policy that pays out a fixed regular amount of Protection An insurance contract that protects the benefit for a defined period.
policyholder or his her dependants against Income drawdown financial loss on death or ill-health.
Our The policyholder can transfer money from any product ranges include term assurance, pension fund to an income drawdown plan from mortgage life insurance, flexible whole life which they receive an income.
The remainder of and critical illness cover.
the pension fund continues to be invested, Regular premium giving it the potential for growth.
A series of payments are made by the Index linked annuities policyholder, typically monthly or annually, An index linked annuity is a type of deferred for part of or all of the duration of the contract.
annuity whose credited interest is linked to an SICAVs equity index.
It guarantees a minimum interest rate and protects against a loss of principal.
Socit dinvestissement capital variable variable capital investment company.
This is Investment sales an open-ended investment fund, structured Comprise retail sales of mutual fund-type as a legally independent joint stock company, products such as unit trusts, individual savings whose units are issued in the form of shares.
accounts ISAs and open ended investment companies OEICs.
Other information 355 Performance review Aviva plc Glossary continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Product definitions cont.
General terms Single premium Available for sale AFS A single lump sum is paid by the policyholder Securities that have been acquired neither at commencement of the contract.
for short-term sale nor to be held to maturity.
These are shown at fair value on the statement Stakeholder pensions of financial position and changes in value Low cost and flexible pension plans available are taken straight to equity instead of the in the UK, governed by specific regulations.
Superannuation Association of British Insurers ABI Superannuation is a pension product sold in Association of British Insurers A major trade Australia where employers pay a proportion association for UK insurance companies, of an employees salaries and wages into established in July 1985. a fund, which can be accessed when the employee retires.
Acquired value of in force AVIF An estimate of future profits that will emerge Takaful over the remaining term of all existing life and Insurance products that observe the rules and pensions policies for which premiums are being regulations of Islamic law.
paid or have been paid at the statement of financial position date.
Term assurance A simple form of life insurance, offering cover Bancassurance over a fixed number of years during which a An arrangement whereby banks and building lump sum will be paid out if the life insured dies.
societies sell insurance and investment products to their customers on behalf of other financial Unit trusts providers.
A form of open ended collective investment constituted under a trust deed, in which Combined Code on Corporate Governance investors can buy and sell units.
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance sets out guidance in the form of principles and Unit-linked annuities provisions on how companies should be directed A unit-linked annuity is a type of deferred and controlled to follow good governance annuity which is invested in units of investment practice.
The Financial Services Authority FSA funds, whose value depends directly on the requires companies listed in the UK to disclose, market value of assets in those funds.
in relation to the Combined Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they Whole life have complied with its provisions throughout the Whole life insurance is a protection policy that accounting year.
Where the provisions have not remains in force for the insureds whole life.
been complied with, companies must provide an Traditional whole life contracts have fixed explanation for this.
premium payments that typically cannot be missed without lapsing the policy.
Flexible whole Deferred acquisition costs DAC life contracts allow the policyholder to vary the The cost directly attributable to the acquisition premium and or amount of life cover, within of new business for insurance and participating certain limits.
investment contracts excluding those written in the UK are deferred to the extent that they are With-profits expected to be recoverable out of future margins A type of long-term savings and insurance in revenue on these contracts.
product sold in the UK under with profits policies premiums are paid into a separate fund.
Fair value Policyholders receive a return on their policies The price that a reasonable buyer would be through bonuses, which smooth the willing to pay and a reasonable seller would investment return from the assets which be willing to accept for a product on the premiums are invested in.
Bonuses are declared open market.
on an annual and terminal basis.
Shareholders have a participating interest in the with-profit FSA funds and any declared bonuses.
Generally, The UKs Financial Services Authority Main policyholder and shareholder participation in regulatory body appointed by the government to with-profit funds in the UK is split 90:10. oversee the financial services industry in the UK.
Since December 2001 it has been the single Wrap investments statutory regulator responsible for the savings, An account in which a broker or fund manager insurance and investment business.
executes investment decisions on behalf of a client in exchange for a single quarterly or annual fee, usually based on the total assets in the account rather than the number of transactions.
356 Aviva plc Glossary continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Inherited estate General terms cont.
In the UK, the assets of the long-term with-profit Funds under management funds less the realistic reserves for non-profit Represents all assets actively managed or policies, less asset shares aggregated across the administered by or on behalf of the Group with-profit policies and any additional amounts including those funds managed by third parties.
expected at the valuation date to be paid to inforce policyholders in the future in respect of Funds under management by Aviva smoothing costs and guarantees.
Represents all assets actively managed or administered by the fund management Long-term and savings business operations of the Group.
Collective term for life insurance, pensions, General insurance savings, investments and related business.
Also known as non-life or property and casualty Market Consistent Embedded Value insurance.
Casualty insurance primarily covers Avivas Market Consistent Embedded Value losses arising from accidents that cause injury to MCEV methodology which is in accordance other people or damage the property of others.
with the MCEV Principles published by the CFO Property insurance covers loss or damage Forum in June 2008 as amended in October through fire, theft, flood, storms and other 2009. specified risks.
Net written premiums Gross written premiums Total gross written premiums for the given The total earnings or revenue generated by sales period, minus premiums paid over or ceded of insurance products, before any reinsurance is to reinsurers.
Not all premiums written will necessarily be treated as income in the current Present value of new business PVNBP financial year, because some of them could Present value of new regular premiums plus relate to insurance cover for a subsequent 100% of single premiums, calculated using period.
assumptions consistent with those used to determine the value of new business under Hard insurance market Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV A term used to describe the state of the general principles published by the CFO Forum of major insurance market.
A hard insurance market is European listed and non-listed insurance characterised by high levels of underwriting companies.
profits and the ability of insurers to charge high premium rates.
Hard insurance markets generally Soft insurance market occur when capital is scarce and are the opposite A term used to describe the state of the general of soft insurance markets.
A soft insurance market is characterised by low levels of profitability and Independent Financial Advisers IFAs market competition driving premium rates lower.
A person or organisation authorised to give Soft insurance markets generally occur when advice on financial matters and to sell the there is excess capital and are the opposite of products of all financial service providers.
In the hard insurance markets.
UK they are legally obliged to offer the product that best suits their clients needs.
Outside the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control UK IFAs may be referred to by other names.
The Turnbull Guidance sets out best practice on internal controls for UK listed companies, and IFRS provides additional guidance in applying certain International Financial Reporting Standards.
sections of the Combined Code.
These are accounting regulations designed to ensure comparable statement of financial position preparation and disclosure, and are the standards that all publicly listed companies in the European Union are required to use.
IFRS operating profit From continuing operations on an IFRS basis, stated before tax attributable to shareholders profits, impairment of goodwill and exceptional items.
This is also refered to as adjusted operating profit.
Other information 357 Performance review Aviva plc Glossary continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Funds under management Market Consistent Embedded Represents all assets actively managed or Value MCEV terms administered by or on behalf of the Group Asymmetric risk including those funds managed by third parties.
Risks that will cause shareholder profits to vary where the variation above and below the Group MCEV average are not equal in distribution.
A measure of the total consolidated value of the Group with covered life business included on an CFO Forum MCEV basis and non-covered business including The CFO Forum www.
nl is a highpension schemes and goodwill included on an level group formed by the chief financial officers IFRS basis.
of major European listed and non-listed Gross risk-free yields insurance companies.
Its aim is to discuss issues Gross of tax yields on risk-free fixed interest relating to proposed new accounting regulations investments, generally swap rates under MCEV.
for their businesses and how they can create greater transparency for investors.
Implicit items Amounts allowed by local regulators to be The forum was created in 2002, the Market deducted from capital amounts when Consistent Embedded Value Principles were determining the EU required minimum margin.
The principles are a further development of the European Embedded Inherited estate Value Principles first launched in May 2004.
The assets of the long-term with-profit funds less the realistic reserves for non-profit policies, less Cost of non-hedgeable risks asset shares aggregated across the with-profit This is the cost of undertaking those risks for policies and any additional amounts expected at which a deep and liquid market in which to the valuation date to be paid to in-force hedge that risk does not exist.
This can include policyholders in the future in respect of both financial risks and non-financial risks such smoothing costs and guarantees.
as mortality, persistency and expense.
Life business Covered business Subsidiaries selling life and pensions contracts The contracts to which the MCEV methodology that are classified as covered business has been applied.
EU solvency Life MCEV The excess of assets over liabilities and the The MCEV balance sheet value of covered worldwide minimum solvency margins, business as at the reporting date.
Excludes excluding goodwill and the additional value of non-covered business including pension schemes in-force long-term business, and excluding the and goodwill.
surplus held in the Groups life funds.
The Group Life MCEV operating earnings solvency calculation is determined according to Operating earnings on the MCEV basis relating the UK Financial Services Authority application of to the lines of business included in the EU Insurance Groups Directive rules.
From continuing Financial options and guarantees operations and is stated before tax, impairment Features of the covered business conferring of goodwill and exceptional items.
potentially valuable guarantees underlying, Life MCEV earnings or options to change, the level or nature of Total earnings on the MCEV basis relating to the policyholder benefits and exercisable at the lines of business included in the embedded value discretion of the policyholder, whose potential calculations.
value is impacted by the behaviour of financial variables.
Look-through basis Inclusion of the capitalised value of profits and Free surplus losses arising from subsidiary companies The amount of any capital and surplus allocated providing administration, investment to, but not required to support, the in-force management and other services to the extent covered business.
that they relate to covered business.
Frictional costs Long-term savings The additional taxation and investment costs Includes life and pension sales calculated under incurred by shareholders through investing MCEV and retail investment sales.
the Required Capital in the Company rather than directly.
358 Aviva plc Glossary continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Solvency cover Market Consistent Embedded The excess of the regulatory value of total assets Value MCEV terms cont.
over total liabilities, divided by the regulatory Market consistent value of the required minimum solvency margin.
A measurement approach where economic assumptions are such that projected asset cash Spread business flows are valued consistently with current market Contracts where a significant source of prices for traded assets.
shareholder profits is the taking of credit spread risk that is not passed on to policyholders.
The Net asset value per ordinary share most significant spread business in Aviva are Net asset value divided by the number of immediate annuities and US deferred annuities ordinary shares in issue.
Net asset value is based and life business.
Statutory basis Net worth The valuation basis and approach used for The market value of the shareholders funds and reporting financial statements to local regulators.
the shareholders interest in the surplus held in the non-profit component of the long-term Stochastic techniques business funds, determined on a statutory Techniques that incorporate the potential future solvency basis and adjusted to add back any variability in assumptions.
non-admissible assets, and consists of the required capital and free surplus.
Symmetric risks Risks that will cause shareholder profits to vary New business margin where the variation above and below the New business margins are calculated as the value average are equal and opposite.
Financial theory of new business divided by the present value of says that investors do not require compensation new business premiums PVNBP, and expressed for non-market risks that are symmetrical as the as a percentage.
risks can be diversified away by investors.
Present value of new business Time value and intrinsic value premiums PVNBP A financial option or guarantee has two Present value of new regular premiums plus elements of value, the time value and intrinsic 100% of single premiums, calculated using value.
The intrinsic value is the discounted value assumptions consistent with those used to of the option or guarantee at expiry, assuming determine the value of new business.
that future economic conditions follow best estimate assumptions.
The time value is the Required capital additional value arising from uncertainty about The amount of assets, over and above the future economic conditions.
value placed on liabilities in respect of covered business, whose distribution to shareholders Value of new business is restricted.
Is calculated using economic assumptions set at the start of each quarter and the same operating Risk-free rate reference rate in CFO assumptions as those used to determine the Forum terminology embedded values at the end of the reporting In stable markets, including the period from period and is stated after the effect of any 31 December 2006 to 30 June 2007, the riskfrictional costs.
Unless otherwise stated, it is free rate is taken as the swap curve yield.
also quoted net of tax and minority interests.
In current markets, including the period from 1 July 2007, the risk-free rate is taken as swaps except for all contracts that contain features similar to immediate annuities and are backed by appropriate assets, including paid up group deferred annuities and all other contracts in the Netherlands, and deferred annuities and all other contracts in the US.
The adjusted risk-free rate is taken as swaps plus the additional return available for products and where backing asset portfolios can be held to maturity.
Service companies Companies providing administration or fund management services to the covered business.
