Governance 115 Performance review Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Directors remuneration report Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Highlights During 2010, the Company undertook a Strategic Reward Review which was overseen by the Remuneration Committee and which comprehensively examined all elements of senior executive remuneration.
This has allowed the Company to put to the 2011 Annual General Meeting proposals that reflect a thorough review of the Companys remuneration package taking into account changing market and regulatory practice and the requirement to ensure that the package remains competitive.
Details of these proposals are outlined in Section 2 of this report.
The highlights of the changes are: Fully revised remuneration principles: Revised benchmarking group: Simplified annual bonus structure: Competitive Long Term Incentive Plans: and New share ownership requirements.
The committee approved the executive directors EDs request to freeze their basic salaries for 2010, for the second year in a row.
The financial and non-financial targets set for the 2010 annual bonus were met in part during the year.
The combination of financial outcomes, along with those targets relating to employees, customers, and personal objectives mean the group chief executive received a 2010 bonus of 74.3% of his maximum opportunity 2009: 74.2%.
On 26 January 2010, Philip Scott retired from the Board.
He continued to be employed by the Group until his retirement in July 2010.
Further details of his leaving arrangements are disclosed in this report.
On 22 February 2010, Patrick Regan, chief financial officer, joined Aviva and the Board.
Therefore, full information on his remuneration appears in this report for the first time.
On 19 January 2011, Andrea Moneta resigned from the Board and left the Company on 28 February 2011.
Details of his leaving arrangements are disclosed in this report.
On 19 January 2011, Igal Mayer was appointed as chief executive, Aviva Europe and joined the Board.
A summary of his annual remuneration is included in this report.
Introduction This report sets out the details of the remuneration policy for the Companys directors, describes its implementation and discloses the amounts paid in 2010.
In addition to meeting statutory requirements, particularly the regulations on directors remuneration reports made under the Companies Act 2006, the committee has complied with best practice guidelines, including guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds, in producing this report.
Relevant sections of this report have been audited in accordance with the legislation.
This report covers the following: The committees objectives, membership and main activities in 2010: A review of Avivas remuneration policy and practice: Commentary on the alignment between remuneration, risk and Avivas business strategy and objectives: Details of the terms of executive directors EDs service contracts: Avivas share ownership policy with respect to EDs: Avivas policy on external board appointments: Avivas UK all employee share plans and share incentive plans: Avivas position against dilution limits: Remuneration of the non-executive directors NEDs, and: Tables summarising the 2010 position on: Directors remuneration EDs pension arrangements Share incentive plans Directors interests in shares 2.
Strategic Reward Review Throughout 2010 the Company conducted a comprehensive review of senior executive remuneration.
This was last conducted in 2005.
The objectives of the review were: To ensure remuneration is optimally designed to attract and retain senior executives To ensure remuneration is aligned with, and incentivise the achievement of, our strategic business aims whilst ensuring appropriate risk taking To benchmark total compensation against suitable comparator groups to ensure remuneration is appropriately positioned against market To ensure our reward plans comply with regulatory requirements The review was led by the committee with input from the Human Resources function and senior management.
In addition to the internal resources, market benchmarking and external commentary was provided by Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS primarily to the committee and  PwC primarily to management.
During the review, the committee and management agreed a set of Remuneration Principles and Remuneration Framework to be applied throughout the Company.
These were then used to help guide the conclusions and remuneration structures which will be rolled out in 2011.
