R&A Text 13 01 2011 08:29 Page 22 22 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Report of the Directors continued The Board considers the use of share buy-backs to enhance g Management arrangements Investment management, accounting, company secretarial and shareholder value.
During the year 1,160,211 shares were purchased.
The Company publishes a NAV per share figure administrative services are provided to the Group by wholly owned subsidiary companies of Henderson.
Under the terms on a daily basis, through the official newswire of the London Stock Exchange.
This figure is calculated in of the management contract: accordance with the AIC formula.
The basic annual management fee is 0.30% of gross assets per annum.
Performance against the Companys peer group In addition to comparison against the benchmarks and The Manager is eligible for a fee based on the degree of various indices, the Board also considers the performance outperformance, calculated on the basis of the average net asset of its AIC peer group at each Board meeting.
value total return over a rolling three year period compared to a composite index representing in equal proportions the FTSE AllTotal expense ratio TER Share Index and the FTSE World ex UK Index.
The TER is a measure of the total expenses incurred by the Company, including those charged to capital, expressed as The payment of a performance fee in any year is subject to an a percentage of the average shareholders funds over the outperformance hurdle rate of 1.5% per annum.
The TER is defined here as the total annual pre tax For the first 1% of outperformance in excess of the hurdle operating expenses management fee and other rate, a performance fee of 0.15% of average gross assets administration costs expressed as a percentage of average will be paid, and in respect of each further 1% of shareholders funds at the beginning and end of the year.
outperformance, a fee of a further 0.2% of average gross The TER, before performance fees and borrowing costs and assets up to a maximum performance fee in any one year of excluding the VAT reclaim, amounted to 0.42% 2009: 0.55% of average gross assets, so that the maximum total fee 0.50% of the assets of the Company.
No performance fee payable in any one year is 0.85% of average gross assets.
The Board regularly monitors all Company expenses.
No performance fee will be paid in any year if either the Companys net asset value or its share price is lower at the e Related party transactions end of the financial year than at the end of the previous Investment management, accounting, company secretarial and financial year.
administration services are provided to the Group by wholly owned subsidiary companies of Henderson Group plc No performance fee will be paid if in any financial year Henderson.
This is the only related party arrangement distributable income plus revenue reserves is lower than the currently in place.
Other than the fees payable by the gross dividends payable in the previous financial year.
Company in the ordinary course of business, and the The notice period for termination of the management investment in the Henderson Liquid Assets Fund, a money contract is six months.
market fund see note 12 on page 48, there have been no material transactions with this related party which has All publications of the Companys NAV take account of any affected the financial position or performance of the performance fee owing or potentially owing.
Company in the financial year.
During the year under review the Manager used certain f Custody arrangements services which were provided by or paid for by various Global custody services are provided by BNP Paribas Securities brokers.
In return it placed business, which may have included Services.
transactions relating to the Company, with these brokers.
