R&A Text 10 01 2011 16:40 Page 38 38 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated and parent company financial statements for the year ended 31 October 2010 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
IFRSs comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that IFRSs have been adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice the SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies the AIC in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of IFRSs, the directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis consistent with the recommendations of the SORP.
i Standards, amendments and interpretations that became effective in the current financial year that have been adopted by the Group: IAS 1 revised Presentation of financial statements The revised standard requires the separate presentation of changes in equity attributable to the owners equity shareholders and other non-owner changes.
All non-owner changes in equity are required to be shown in a performance statement, but entities can choose whether to present one performance statement the statement of comprehensive income or two statements the income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
The Group has applied IAS 1 revised from 1 November 2009 and has elected to present solely a statement of comprehensive income.
Where an entity restates or reclassifies comparative information, it is also required to present a restated balance sheet as at the beginning of the comparative period.
The adoption of this revised standard has not resulted in a significant change to the presentation of the Groups performance statement, as the Group has no elements of other comprehensive income not previously included in its Statement of Comprehensive Income.
IAS 39 amendment Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement The amendment was part of the IASBs annual improvements project published in May 2008.
The amendment permits an entity to reclassify particular financial assets in some circumstances and the definition of financial asset or financial liability at fair value through profit or loss as it relates to items that are held for trading was amended.
Adoption did not have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
IFRS 7 amendment Financial Instruments: Disclosures Introduced new disclosure requirements whereby financial instruments must be categorised under a three-level fair value hierarchy.
A reconciliation is also required for any investments categorised as Level 3.
The additional disclosures resulting from this amendment have been included in Note 17.5 on page 56.
The amendments to IFRS 7 also introduce some additional disclosures on liquidity risk which are included in note 17.2.
IAS 32 amendment Financial instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 amendment Presentation of financial statements Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation.
The amendment provides exemptions from financial liability classification for a puttable financial instruments that meet certain conditions: and b certain instruments or components of instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro-rata share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation as equity.
Adoption did not have any impact on the Groups financial statements.
R&A Text 13 01 2011 08:31 Page 39 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 39 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued IFRS 8 Operating Segments Replaces IAS 14 and aligns segment reporting with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131.
The new standard requires a management approach under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
The adoption of this standard has resulted in changes to the presentation of segment information in note 25.
IAS 23 amendment Borrowing Costs Requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
This is not currently relevant to the Group, which has no qualifying assets.
Improvements to IFRS were issued in May 2008 and April 2009 and comprise numerous amendments to IFRS that result in accounting changes for presentation, recognition or measurement purposes as well as terminology or editorial amendments related to a variety of individual standards.
Most of the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 and 1 January 2010 respectively, with earlier application permitted.
No material changes to accounting policies have been made or, where relevant, are expected as a result of these amendments.
IAS 27 revised Consolidated and separate financial statements Introduces significant changes to the accounting for transactions with non-controlling interests minority interests, the accounting for a loss of control and the presentation of non-controlling interests in consolidated financial statements.
IAS 28 amendment Investments in Associates Consequential amendments arising from revisions to IFRS 3.
IFRS 3 revised Business combinations Adoption did not have any impact on the Groups financial statements.
ii Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that become effective in future accounting periods and have not been adopted early by the Group: IAS 24 revised Related Party Disclosures effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011, subject to EU endorsement Revises the definition of related parties.
Adoption is unlikely to have a significant effect on the Groups financial statements.
iii Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that become effective in future accounting periods and are not relevant to the Groups operations: IFRS 1 amendments First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and Additional exemptions for first-time adopters IFRS 2 amendments Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions IFRS 5 amendment Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations IFRS 9 new Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement IAS 17 amendment Leases IAS 32 amendment Financial Instruments: Presentation Amendments relating to the classification of rights issues
