R&A Text 13 01 2011 08:30 Page 31 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 31 Report of the Directors continued give specific instructions on voting non-routine and unusual Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information or controversial resolutions.
Decisions not to support to Auditors resolutions and the rationale therefore are fed back to The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of the investee company prior to voting.
approving this Report are listed on page 19.
Each of those Directors confirms that: The Henderson Responsible Investment Policy and further details of Hendersons responsible investment to the best of his knowledge and belief, there is no activities can be found on the Henderson website, information relevant to the preparation of the Annual www.
com Report and Financial Statements of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Employee and Environmental matters The Companys core activities are undertaken by Henderson he has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be which has implemented environmental management expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit practices including systems to limit the use of noninformation and to establish that the Companys auditors renewable resources and to minimise the impact of are aware of that information.
Henderson is focused on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and minimising waste, where possible.
Annual General Meeting AGM By order of the Board The AGM will be held on Tuesday 22 February 2011 at 2.30 pm.
Separate resolutions will be proposed for each substantive issue.
The formal notice of the AGM as well as full W J King FCIS details of the resolutions to be put at the AGM are contained For and on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited in the separate circular being sent to shareholders with this Secretary Annual Report.
17 January 2011 Warning to Shareholders Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
Please note that it is very unlikely that either the Company or the Companys Registrar, Equiniti formerly Lloyds TSB Registrars, would make unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders and that any such calls would relate only to official documentation already circulated to shareholders and never in respect of investment advice.
If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited phone call, please call either the Company Secretary or the Registrar at the numbers provided on page 64.
