R&A Text 10 01 2011 16:40 Page 55 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 55 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 17 Risk management policies and procedures continued 17.3 Credit and counterparty risk continued Outstanding settlements are subject to credit risk.
Credit risk is mitigated by the Group through its decision to transact with counterparties of high credit quality.
The Group only buys and sells investments through brokers which are approved counterparties, thus minimising the risk of default during settlement.
The credit ratings of brokers are reviewed periodically by the Manager, and limits are set on the amount that may be due from any one broker.
The Group is also exposed to credit risk through the use of banks for its cash position.
Bankruptcy or insolvency of banks may cause the Groups rights with respect to cash held by banks to be delayed or limited.
The Groups cash balances are held by our custodian, BNP Paribas Securities Services.
The directors believe the counterparty is of high credit quality, therefore the Group has minimal exposure to credit risk.
Credit risk exposure The table below summarises the credit risk exposure of the Group as at year end: 2010 2009 000 000 Fixed interest securities 3,582 19,079 Cash 8,910 5,989 Receivables: Securities sold for future settlement 2,096 14,588 25,068 17.4 Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets and financial liabilities are either carried in the balance sheet at their fair value investments and derivatives or the balance sheet amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value due from brokers, dividends and interest receivable, due to brokers, accruals, cash at bank, bank overdrafts and amounts due under the multi-currency loan facility.
The par value of the debenture stocks can be found in note 16.
The fair values are calculated using prices quoted on the exchange on which the instruments trade.
17.5 Fair value hierarchy disclosures The table overleaf sets out the fair value measurements using the IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy.
Categorisation within the hierarchy has been determined on the basis of the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the relevant asset as follows: Level 1 valued using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets.
Level 2 valued by reference to valuation techniques using observable inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1.
Level 3 valued by reference to valuation techniques using inputs that are not based on observable market data.
