R&A Text 10 01 2011 16:39 Page 26 26 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Report of the Directors continued effect.
The Act also allows the articles of association to contain Directors professional development other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest When a new director is appointed he or she is offered a training seminar which is held by the Manager.
Directors to avoid a breach of duty.
There are two safe harbours either are also provided on a regular basis with key information the situation cannot reasonably be regarded as likely to give on the Companys activities including regulatory and rise to a conflict of interest or the matter has been authorised statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes in advance by the directors.
The Companys Articles of affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the Board Association give the directors the relevant authority required to as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant deal with conflicts of interest.
Each of the directors has provided a statement of all conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest Directors Indemnity Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in applicable to the Company.
A register of conflicts of respect of the directors.
The Companys Articles of interest has been compiled and approved by the Board.
Association provide, subject to the provisions of UK The directors have also all undertaken to notify the legislation, an indemnity for directors in respect of costs Chairman as soon as they become aware of any new which they may incur relating to the defence of any potential conflicts of interest that would need to be proceedings brought against them arising out of their approved by the Board and added to the Register, which positions as directors, in which they are acquitted or will be reviewed annually by the Board.
judgement is given in their favour by the Court.
The directors advise the Chairman and the Company e The Board Secretary in advance of any proposed external appointment Chairman and new directors will be asked to submit a list of potential The Chairman, Mr Brewster, is an independent nonsituations falling within the conflicts of interest provisions executive director who has no conflicting relationships.
of the Act in advance of joining the Board.
The Chairman determines whether the relevant appointment causes a Senior Independent Director conflict or potential conflict of interest and should Mr Sumner was appointed as Senior Independent therefore be considered by the Board.
He is to be replaced by Mr Killingbeck as Senior Independent Director on his Only directors who have no interest in the matter being retirement at the AGM.
considered are able to participate in the Board approval process.
In deciding whether to approve a conflict of Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees interest, directors act in a way they consider, in good faith, The Board has appointed a number of Committees as set will be most likely to promote the Companys success in out below.
Copies of the terms of reference which clearly taking such a decision.
The Board can impose limits or define the responsibilities and duties for each Committee are conditions when giving authorisation if the directors available on the website, www.
com, consider this to be appropriate.
or on request and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
The Board has reviewed its conflicts of interest procedures during the year and confirms that its powers of Audit Committee authorisation of conflicts has operated effectively since they The Audit Committee comprises Mr Thorne, Mr Sumner were introduced on 1 October 2008 and that its and Mr Killingbeck, all of whom are considered procedures for the approval of conflicts of interest have independent.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is been followed by all the directors.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one of R&A Text 10 01 2011 16:39 Page 27 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 27 Report of the Directors continued the Committees members has recent and relevant financial agreement with the Companys Manager and to review the services provided by the Manager.
Mr Sullivan is to become experience.
The Committee has written terms of reference, which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
a member of the Management Engagement Committee on his appointment to the Company.
Mr Sullivan is to become a member of the Audit Committee Nominations Committee when Mr Sumner retires as a non-executive director at the The Nominations Committee comprises Mr Brewster, AGM.
Mr Burns, Mr Sumner and Mr Killingbeck.
The Chairman The Committee meets at least three times each year to of the Nominations Committee is Mr Brewster.
The review the internal financial and non-financial controls, to Committee, which meets at least annually, reviews the consider and recommend to the Board for approval the Boards size and structure and is responsible for Board contents of the Half-Year and Annual Report & Financial succession planning.
The other members of the Board may Statements to shareholders and to review the accounting attend meetings of the Nominations Committee by policies and significant financial reporting judgements.
Representatives of the Managers internal audit and Charities Committee compliance departments attend these meetings at the The Charities Committee comprises Mr Sumner Chairman Chairmans request.
In addition, the Committee reviews the and Mr Brewster, who consider requests for charitable auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, donations of a limited nature within set criteria.
During the appointment and remuneration, the quality of the services of year donations were made totalling 4,000 2009: 4,000. the service providers to the Company, and, together with the Manager, reviews the Companys compliance with financial Mr Burns will succeed Mr Sumner as Chairman of the reporting and regulatory requirements.
The Audit Committee Charities Committee.
remains satisfied with the effectiveness of the audit provided Board Attendance by  LLP and therefore has not Currently, the Board meets seven times per annum and is considered it necessary to date to require an independent responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys tender process.
A new audit partner has been introduced for affairs.
Certain strategic issues have been considered at the audit of the 31 October 2010 accounts.
various meetings of the Board and additional meetings of the Representatives of  LLP, the Board may be arranged as required.
The Board has a formal Companys auditors, attend the Committee meeting at schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision which which the Annual Report and Financial Statements are are categorised under various headings including strategy, management, structure, capital, financial reporting, internal reviewed and are given the opportunity to speak to the Committee members without the presence of the controls, gearing, asset allocation, share price discount, representatives of the Manager.
contracts, policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, performance, corporate governance and Board membership The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present and appointments.
In order to enable them to discharge their at the AGM to deal with questions relating to the responsibilities, all directors have full and timely access to Financial Statements.
At each meeting, the Board reviews the Management Engagement Committee Companys investment performance and considers financial The Management Engagement Committees membership analyses and other reports of an operational nature.
The comprises all the members of the Board.
The Chairman of Board monitors compliance with the Companys objectives the Committee is Mr Brewster.
The Committee meets at and is responsible for setting asset allocation parameters, least annually to review the investment management investment and gearing limits within which the Manager has
