R&A Text 13 01 2011 08:28 Page 20 20 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Report of the Directors The directors present their report and the audited financial The Manager has the flexibility to invest in any geographic region and has no set limits on individual country or sector statements for the Group for the year ended 31 October 2010. exposures, although the Board regularly monitors the Business Review Companys investments and the Managers investment activity.
The following review is designed to provide information The Manager primarily employs a bottom up value based primarily about the Companys business and results for the investment process to identify suitable opportunities and pays year ended 31 October 2010.
The business review should be particular regard to cash generation and dividends.
read in conjunction with the Chairmans Statement on pages While the Company will mainly invest in international equities 3 and 4 and the Portfolio Managers Review on page 5, which there is the flexibility to invest in debt securities, such as gives a detailed review of the investment activities for the year convertibles, corporate bonds or sovereign debt, if it is and an outlook for the future.
deemed that these will, at a particular time or for a particular period, enhance the performance of the Company in the a Status pursuit of its objectives.
The use of any derivative instruments The Company is incorporated in England and Wales and such as financial futures, options and currency hedges will domiciled in the United Kingdom.
It is an investment company only be for the purposes of efficient portfolio management.
as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as an investment trust in accordance with Section The Company will not invest more than 15% of its investment 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 formerly Section 842 of portfolio in any single investment on acquisition, nor will it the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
It is required to invest more than 15% of its investment portfolio in any other seek HM Revenue & Customs approval of its status as an UK listed investment trusts or investment companies.
investment trust under the above-mentioned Section 1158 The Company will at times borrow money, both short and every year, and this approval will continue to be sought.
long term, in order to enhance performance.
The draw down Approval of the Companys status as an investment trust has of borrowings may be in currencies other than Sterling, been received in respect of the year ended 31 October 2009 provided that the borrowings do not exceed the assets in that although this approval is subject to there being no subsequent particular currency.
The gearing range is between 0% and enquiries under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The directors 20% and gearing will not exceed 20% of Net Asset Value at are of the opinion that the Company has continued to conduct the time of draw down of the relevant borrowings.
its affairs in a manner that will enable it to continue to gain such approval.
The Company has no employees.
The Company achieves an appropriate spread of investment risk principally through a broadly diversified portfolio which at The Company is not a close company.
31 October 2010 contained over 200 individual investments.
The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs so At 31 October 2010 the largest single investment was BP that its investments fully qualify for a stocks and shares which accounted for 2.8% of total investments, while the top component of an ISA.
25 holdings totalled 31.7% of total investments.
Investment risk may be further reduced through the use of currency b Investment objectives and policy hedging, foreign borrowings and derivatives.
The Companys objectives are to achieve long term asset growth in excess of the FTSE All-Share Index and regular Information regarding the Companys investment exposures dividend growth in excess of the increase in the Retail Prices can be found on page 18, and performance attribution Index.
To achieve these objectives the Companys investment against our composite benchmark is contained on page 17. policy is to invest its assets in a portfolio primarily composed Further information regarding investment risk and activity of international equities.
The portfolio is broadly diversified by throughout the year can be found in the Managers Review both geography and sector in order to reduce investment risk.
