R&A Text 10 01 2011 16:39 Page 29 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 29 Report of the Directors continued process is subject to regular review by the Board and accords i Continued appointment of the Investment Manager with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the The Board reviews the performance of the Investment Manager Combined Code published in September 1999 the Turnbull Manager at each Board meeting and the Management Guidance which was revised by the FRC in October 2005 Engagement Committee meets annually to review the and June 2006. continuing appointment of the Manager.
In the opinion of the Directors the continued appointment of the Manager on the The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken an annual terms agreed is in the best interests of the Companys review of the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal shareholders as a whole.
The Manager has extensive control and the business risks have been analysed and recorded in investment management resources and wide experience in a risk map which is reviewed regularly.
The Board receives each managing and administering investment companies.
quarter from the Manager a formal report which details the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those that are not j Share capital and Shareholders directly the responsibility of the Manager, and which reports the Share capital details of any known internal control failures.
The Board receives At 31 October 2010 the Company had in issue 111,085,839 each year from the Manager a report on its internal controls ordinary shares of 25p each.
The voting rights of the ordinary which includes a report from the Managers reporting shares on a poll are one vote for every four shares held.
There accountants on the control policies and procedures in operation.
are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys shares and there are no shares which carry specific rights with The Board confirms that in the event of any significant failings regard to control of the Company.
The market price per share or weakness identified from the annual review of the at that date was 379.9p, giving the Company a market effectiveness of the Companys system of Internal Control, capitalisation of 422 million.
Equity shareholders funds necessary actions would be taken to remedy them.
No totalled 502 million, the net asset value per share at that significant failings or weaknesses in respect of the Company date being 451.9p per share inclusive of retained revenue for were identified in the year under review.
Accordingly, the market price per share stood at a discount of 15.9% to the net asset value inclusive of h Accountability and relationship with the Manager retained revenue for the year.
The Company seeks The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the shareholder authority annually to buy back its shares in the Financial Statements is set out on page 33, the Report of the market for cancellation.
During the year the Company Independent Auditors on page 60 and the Statement of bought back 1,160,211 of its ordinary shares at an average Going Concern on page 21. discount of 13.8% for a total consideration of 4,197,000.
The Board has delegated contractually to the Manager and Substantial Share Interests other external third parties, the management of the Declarations of interests in the voting rights of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the Company, at 7 January 2011, are set out below.
safeguarding of the assets, the day-to-day accounting, Shareholder % of voting rights company secretarial, administration and registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper F&C Asset Management 5.03 consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management 4.01 services offered, including the control systems in operation in Legal & General 3.96 so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
In addition, the Board is aware that, at 31 October 2010, The Board receives and considers regular reports from the 14.71% of the issued share capital was held on behalf of Manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to participants in the Halifax Share Dealing products run by the Board as required.
Halifax Share Dealing Limited HSDL, which is now part
