R&A Text 10 01 2011 16:40 Page 41 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 41 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued g Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using the effective tax rate of corporation tax for the accounting period.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the Statement of Comprehensive Income is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented in the revenue return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Investment trusts which have approval as such under section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Statement of Comprehensive Income, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
h Dividends payable to shareholders Dividends payable to shareholders are recognised in the financial statements when they are paid or, in the case of final dividends, when they are approved by shareholders.
Dividends are dealt with in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
i Foreign currency For the purposes of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each entity is expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the presentational currency of the Group.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Transactions recorded in overseas currencies during the year are translated into sterling at the appropriate daily exchange rates.
Monetary assets and liabilities and equity investments held at fair value through profit or loss that are denominated in overseas currencies at the balance sheet date, are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at that date.
Exchange gains and losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss are included within Gains or losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
j Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
