R&A Text 13 01 2011 08:29 Page 24 24 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Report of the Directors continued in Section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code, as well as setting Internal audit function out additional principles and recommendations on issues that As the Company delegates to third parties its day-to-day are of specific relevance to investment trusts.
operations and has no employees, the Board has determined that there is no requirement for an internal The Board of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC believes that audit function.
The directors annually review whether a reporting against the AIC Code by reference to the AIC function equivalent to an internal audit is needed and will Guide will provide the most appropriate information to continue to monitor its systems of internal controls in order shareholders and has therefore followed the principles and to provide assurance that they operate as intended.
recommendations set out in the AIC Code.
Copies of the AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be found on www.
d Directors Board Composition In May 2010 the FRC published the new UK Corporate The Board currently consists of five directors, all of whom Governance Code which is effective for accounting periods are non-executive.
commencing on or after 29 June 2010 the new code.
The AIC updated its Corporate Governance Code the new AIC The names and biographies of the directors holding office Code in October 2010 which the FRC have endorsed.
These at the date of this report are listed on page 19.
All the new codes have not yet been adopted by the Company and current directors served on the Board throughout the year.
therefore do not apply to this report.
Mr Thomas retired from the Board on 23 February 2010. b New Zealand Listing Directors appointment, retirement and rotation It should be noted that the UK Codes of Corporate The Board may appoint directors to the Board without Governance may materially differ from the New Zealand Stock shareholder approval.
Any director so appointed must Exchanges corporate governance rules and principles of the stand for appointment by the shareholders at the next Corporate Best Practice Code.
AGM in accordance with the articles of association.
The c Statement of compliance total number of directors shall not be less than three nor The AIC Code comprises 21 principles.
The Board attaches more than eight.
Mr Peter Sullivan is to join the Board as a importance to the matters set out in the AIC Code and lists non-executive director on 22 February 2011 and will below how the AIC Codes principles have been applied.
immediately offer himself for appointment at the AGM.
The directors believe that during the year under review they Under the articles of association, shareholders may remove have complied with the provisions of the AIC Code, insofar as a director before the end of his term by passing a special they apply to the Companys business, and with the provisions resolution.
A special resolution is passed if more than 75 of the 2008 Combined Code except as noted below.
per cent of the votes cast, in person or by proxy, are in favour of the resolution.
The role of chief executive Since all directors are non-executive and day-to-day The 2008 Combined Code requires that every director management responsibilities are sub-contracted to the retires by rotation at least every three years.
The Companys Manager, the Company does not have a Chief Executive.
articles of association provide that one third of directors retire by rotation each year.
Directors are also required to Executive directors remuneration retire if they have served more than nine years on the As the Board has no executive directors, it is not required Board, but may then offer themselves for annual reto comply with the principles of the 2008 Combined Code in respect of executive directors remuneration and does appointment.
Notwithstanding these requirements, the new UK Corporate Governance Code requires all directors not have a Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 32. of FTSE 350 Companies to retire annually.
Therefore all the R&A Text 13 01 2011 08:29 Page 25 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 25 Report of the Directors continued directors will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being Board Succession and Policy for Recruitment The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment with the that the Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by exception of Mr Sumner who is not seeking re-appointment.
the appointment of new directors with the skills and Board Independence and Tenure Policy experience necessary, in particular, to replace those lost by The Board is conscious of the need to maintain continuity directors retirements.
Directors must be able to demonstrate on the Board, and believes that retaining directors with their commitment to the Company, including in terms of sufficient experience of both the Company and the time.
The Board seeks to encompass relevant past and markets is of great benefit to shareholders.
current experience of various disciplines.
At the AGM on 22 February 2011, Mr Sumner is to retire and Mr Sullivan is The Board believes that each of the directors exercises to join the Board as a non-executive director.
independent judgement and that length of service does not diminish the contribution from a director: indeed a Directors Remuneration directors experience and extensive knowledge of the A report on directors remuneration is on page 32.
Company is a positive benefit to the Board.
Moreover, Directors Interests in Shares long-serving directors are less likely to take a short-term Ordinary shares of 25p view.
This view is supported by the AIC Code.
31 October 1 November 2010 2009 The directors biographies, on page 19, demonstrate their With beneficial interest: breadth of investment, commercial and professional R D Brewster 72,975 57,118 experience relevant to their positions as directors on the R R J Burns 60,000 60,000 Board of the Company.
R W Killingbeck 25,000 25,000 F I Sumner 5,500 5,500 There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of D G Thomas n a 12,000 the year in which a director of the Company is or was M W J Thorne 19,000 16,000 materially interested and which is or was significant in Non beneficial interest: relation to the Companys business.
No director has a R R J Burns 33,000 33,000 service contract with the Company.
No director is entitled to compensation for loss of office on the takeover of the The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company.
Company at the beginning and end of the financial year are shown in the preceding table.
Since the year end, The directors annually review their independence.
The Mr Brewster became interested in a further 176 shares due Nominations Committee has considered the continued to the reinvestment of dividends and Mr Burns purchased appointment of Mr Brewster who has served on the Board 5,000 shares.
He has no other links to the Manager: in addition he has a wide range of other interests and is not Directors Conflicts of Interest dependent in any way on the Company itself and the Directors have a duty to avoid situations where they have, or Nominations Committee concluded that he continues to could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or make a valuable contribution to the Board and, possibly could conflict, with the Companys interests.
With notwithstanding length of service, he remains independent effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 the in character and judgement.
Mr Sumner, who has also Act, has allowed directors of public companies to authorise served on the Board for over nine years, is due to retire at such conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, but the AGM in 2011. only if the articles of association contain a provision to this
