R&A Text 13 01 2011 08:29 Page 24 24 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Report of the Directors continued in Section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code, as well as setting Internal audit function out additional principles and recommendations on issues that As the Company delegates to third parties its day-to-day are of specific relevance to investment trusts.
operations and has no employees, the Board has determined that there is no requirement for an internal The Board of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC believes that audit function.
The directors annually review whether a reporting against the AIC Code by reference to the AIC function equivalent to an internal audit is needed and will Guide will provide the most appropriate information to continue to monitor its systems of internal controls in order shareholders and has therefore followed the principles and to provide assurance that they operate as intended.
recommendations set out in the AIC Code.
Copies of the AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be found on www.
d Directors Board Composition In May 2010 the FRC published the new UK Corporate The Board currently consists of five directors, all of whom Governance Code which is effective for accounting periods are non-executive.
commencing on or after 29 June 2010 the new code.
The AIC updated its Corporate Governance Code the new AIC The names and biographies of the directors holding office Code in October 2010 which the FRC have endorsed.
These at the date of this report are listed on page 19.
All the new codes have not yet been adopted by the Company and current directors served on the Board throughout the year.
therefore do not apply to this report.
Mr Thomas retired from the Board on 23 February 2010. b New Zealand Listing Directors appointment, retirement and rotation It should be noted that the UK Codes of Corporate The Board may appoint directors to the Board without Governance may materially differ from the New Zealand Stock shareholder approval.
Any director so appointed must Exchanges corporate governance rules and principles of the stand for appointment by the shareholders at the next Corporate Best Practice Code.
AGM in accordance with the articles of association.
The c Statement of compliance total number of directors shall not be less than three nor The AIC Code comprises 21 principles.
The Board attaches more than eight.
Mr Peter Sullivan is to join the Board as a importance to the matters set out in the AIC Code and lists non-executive director on 22 February 2011 and will below how the AIC Codes principles have been applied.
immediately offer himself for appointment at the AGM.
The directors believe that during the year under review they Under the articles of association, shareholders may remove have complied with the provisions of the AIC Code, insofar as a director before the end of his term by passing a special they apply to the Companys business, and with the provisions resolution.
A special resolution is passed if more than 75 of the 2008 Combined Code except as noted below.
per cent of the votes cast, in person or by proxy, are in favour of the resolution.
The role of chief executive Since all directors are non-executive and day-to-day The 2008 Combined Code requires that every director management responsibilities are sub-contracted to the retires by rotation at least every three years.
The Companys Manager, the Company does not have a Chief Executive.
articles of association provide that one third of directors retire by rotation each year.
Directors are also required to Executive directors remuneration retire if they have served more than nine years on the As the Board has no executive directors, it is not required Board, but may then offer themselves for annual reto comply with the principles of the 2008 Combined Code in respect of executive directors remuneration and does appointment.
Notwithstanding these requirements, the new UK Corporate Governance Code requires all directors not have a Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 32. of FTSE 350 Companies to retire annually.
