R&A Text 10 01 2011 16:40 Page 40 40 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued b Basis of consolidation The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of the Company and of its sole wholly owned subsidiary undertaking, The Army and Navy Investment Company Limited.
The intragroup balances are eliminated on consolidation.
The investment in the subsidiary is recognised at fair value in the financial statements of the Company.
c Investments held at fair value through profit or loss All investments are designated upon initial recognition as held at fair value through profit or loss.
Investment transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis.
Assets are fide-recognised at the trade date of the disposal.
Proceeds are measured at fair value, which are regarded as the proceeds of sale less any transaction costs.
The fair value of the financial instruments in the balance sheet is based on their quoted bid price at the balance sheet date, without deduction of the estimated future selling costs.
Unquoted investments including the Companys investment in its subsidiary are valued by the directors using primary valuation techniques such as earnings multiples, recent transactions and net assets.
Where fair value cannot be reliably measured, the investment will be carried at the previous reporting date value unless there is evidence that the investment has since been impaired, in which case the value will be reduced.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as Gains or losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Also included within this caption are transaction costs in relation to the purchase or sale of investments, including the difference between the purchase price of an investment and its bid price at the date of purchase.
d Presentation of Statement of Comprehensive Income In accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Statement of Comprehensive Income between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend.
Additionally, the net revenue is the measure the directors believe appropriate in assessing the Groups compliance with certain requirements set out in section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. e Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised as revenue for the year on an ex-dividend basis.
Special dividends are treated as revenue return or as capital return, depending on the facts of each individual case.
Income from fixed interest debt securities is recognised using the effective interest rate method.
The trading profits of the subsidiary undertaking, which represent realised gains and losses on the sale of current asset investments, are dealt with in the revenue return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income as a revenue item.
Bank deposit interest and stock lending income are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Where the Company enters into a commitment to underwrite an issue of securities in exchange for the receipt of commission, a derivative financial instrument is recognised initially at fair value.
The derivative is re-measured subsequently at fair value, with the related gains and losses being reflected in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Net losses arising from these derivatives, where actual or expected loss from taking up the securities underwritten exceeds the commission income are allocated to the capital return.
Net gains are allocated to the revenue return.
f Expenses All expenses and interest payable are accounted for on an accruals basis.
On the basis of the Boards expected longterm split of total returns in the form of capital and revenue returns of 70% and 30%, respectively, the Company charges 70% of its finance costs and investment management fees to capital.
Any performance fees payable are allocated wholly to capital, reflecting the fact that, although they are calculated on a total return basis, they are expected to be attributable largely, if not wholly, to capital performance.
Expenses which are incidental to the purchase or sale of an investment are charged to the capital return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income and allocated to other capital reserves.
All other operating expenses are charged to the revenue return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
