12 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Business review Global Retail Banking At the Global Retail Banking investor day in June 2010, we said our strategic goals were Happy customers, strong profit growth, good returns.
We are making significant progress against these goals.
We are focused on improving the service we provide to our customers and have seen positive results from this.
For example, weve reduced the time it takes to issue a replacement debit card in the UK from five to two days.
Our use of innovation is also transforming the customer experience.
Our pioneering contactless payment strategy in the UK has resulted in a much easier experience for our customers.
Ninety percent of the contactless cards issued in the UK are now issued by Barclays, which puts us in a leading position.
In Kenya and Botswana, registration for our mobile banking service increased almost four-fold over the year.
In Western Europe, we continued to expand our network, increasing the number of distribution points by over a hundred, making it easier for customers to access our banking services.
These are just some examples of what we have done to improve the customer experience.
Further progress needs to be made and this is a key priority for us.
In 2010 we delivered a good financial performance with increasing momentum This focus on our customers will generate sustainable value for our shareholders.
GRB improved through the year and made strong its loan to deposit ratio by 4 percentage points to 140%.
Return progress against our strategic and on equity increased from 10% to 11% reflecting strong profit growth in UKRB, Barclaycard and Barclays Africa.
We are facing financial goals challenging economic conditions in Western Europe but remain committed to a presence in the region and to converting the investment we have made into sustainable profit.
Weve achieved greater depth through the integration of Standard Life Bank in the UK and Citigroups card business in Italy.
Our promises I am confident that we are on the right track to meet our objectives and deliver significant value to all our stakeholders.
Global Retail Banking 2013 Targets Income and profit growth Strong compound annual profit growth Antony Jenkins Chief Executive, Global Retail Banking Income growth in excess of cost growth Stable funding ratio Deposits and secured funding to keep pace with asset growth Depth, not breadth Existing markets focus and continued product diversification Strong returns and c 2% RoRWA net equity generation 13-15% RoE c 20% RoTE Barclays PLC Annual Review 2010 www.
com annualreport10 13 Reinforcing our leading position Supporting in technology and innovation financial literacy Helping people manage their money is at the core of our business, and is an important part of Barclays citizenship strategy.
In 2010 we delivered more than 8,500 financial literacy workshops around the world, and through a combination of face-to-face seminars and online content, reached more than half a million people, helping them build the skills and confidence to manage their money effectively, achieve financial independence and build a secure future.
In the UK, Barclays Money Skills is working with key partners to develop a range of projects and tools to help vulnerable young people.
For example, were working in partnership with Action for Children to benefit more than 2,500 of the hardest to reach young people.
Sean is 16 years old and lives in Glasgow.
He is currently in the process of moving from a care home into supported living accommodation, where he will gradually be assuming responsibility for paying bills, furnishing his flat and providing meals for himself.
Sean said: because of what Ive learnt on the Barclays Money Skills course, Ive At Barclays, we continue to lead the technological Our innovative edge will allow us to move one step made a spending plan, so I know what cash I revolution that is sweeping across the banking further in 2011.
In the UK, in association with have for food, travel, bills and my social life.
We have pioneered contactless payments in Orange or Everything Everywhere as they are now the UK and we will be offering contactless mobile known, Barclaycard customers, from the summer GRB is also delivering financial literacy phone payment solution for customers in the of 2011, will be able to use their mobiles for programmes in a number of other countries summer of 2011.
In addition, customers can also contactless payments of up to 15 for goods and including Ghana, Mauritius, Zambia and Egypt.
use their GPS facility on their mobiles to find the services at retailers by simply waving their In Botswana, Barclays launched a financial nearest Barclays branch and cash machines.
literacy campaign in 2010 with the Baylors Teen Club.
The Club is an organisation that provides Recognising that mobile access is fast becoming This is the beginning of a revolution in how we life skills training and counselling to HIV positive the new frontier in the banking space, and building pay for things on the high street.
With Barclays support, the Teen upon our achievements with Barclays.
mobi in the that is as important as the launch of the personal Club is now working in six villages across the UK, we recently went live in France and in Portugal, credit card or ATMs.
Gerry McQuade, Chief country and has partnered with Barclays giving customers access to banking at a place and Development Officer at Everything Everywhere.
colleagues to deliver training to 280 HIV time that suits them.
In Kenya and Botswana, positive teens.
registration for our mobile banking service this year increased almost four-fold.
At the same time, we continue to be leaders in bringing contactless technology to the UK, with approximately 90% of contactless transactions Go online Go online from a Barclays-issued card, and transaction For more information go to For more information go to volumes more than doubling in the last year.
