14 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Business review Corporate and Investment Banking Our Corporate and Investment Banking business provides clients with the lending, finance, risk management, advice, and transactional payments support that they need to succeed, whatever the economic environment.
The strength of our model ensures that we are able to focus on their needs when they need us most.
Barclays Capital is a premier global investment bank operating at the very top of the investment banking industry.
In a challenging year, the business increased profit before tax by 2%, and generated a 17% increase in total income by remaining close to its clients.
Barclays Corporate is strengthening its relationship-led core UK business, where significantly reduced impairment and a focus on clients drove a 16% increase in profit before tax.
Overall though, Barclays Corporate recorded a loss and we have taken decisive action in Russia and Spain to either exit or refocus operations that are not generating the returns we expect.
Corporate and Investment Banking plays a crucial role in supporting corporate clients to achieve growth and job creation in the real economy: governments to deliver their stability and growth plans: and institutional clients to meet the long-term Our integrated universal banking investment needs of their customers.
model allows us to meet the needs of our The strategic build in key growth areas at Barclays Capital clients by connecting capabilities from is delivering tangible benefits to clients around the world, across the Barclays Group alongside the focused execution of robust plans for the future right across the business.
Barclays Corporate continues to invest in the people, products and infrastructure to support clients in its core UK market, and strengthen its offering for multinationals and large companies in overseas markets.
Our integrated universal banking model allows us to meet the needs of our clients by connecting capabilities from across the Barclays Group, and our focus on bringing clients the best Our promises solution continues to underpin our commitment to their success.
Barclays Capital 2013 Targets Jerry del Missier Rich Ricci c 15% RoE on Basel III basis Strong returns Co-Chief Executive, Co-Chief Executive, Corporate and Corporate and Investment Banking Investment Banking Income growth Additional 2bn in Equities and Investment Banking revenues Cost management 60-65% cost: net income ratio Barclays Corporate 2012 Target Profitability Return to aggregate profitability Barclays PLC Annual Review 2010 www.
com annualreport10 15 What is corporate and investment banking?
Resolution acquires AXAs UK Life business Providing opportunities to generate returns We support clients, like pension managers and investment funds, in making decisions on where to make their investments and in executing those investments.
With our support, they can achieve the returns they need to meet their obligations and satisfy their customers.
Risk management We can help clients manage many of the risks they face, from foreign exchange and interest rate risk, to the varying price of commodities.
This reduces uncertainty and allows clients to focus on their core operations.
Corporate and Investment Banking is about helping Strategic and financial advice We advise clients corporate, government and institutional clients to on how to manage and expand their businesses.
finance and grow their operations, manage their That might be through a merger or an acquisition, Barclays Capital played multiple roles across all risks and invest their capital.
or it might be through the best way to manage aspects of Resolutions 2.75bn acquisition of their balance sheet, capital or cash flow.
the AXA UK Life Business last June.
The success Capital raising and financing We lend money, and of the deal, and strength of relationships, led enable companies, banks, cities and countries to to the firm being appointed Joint Corporate raise equity capital and issue debt in the capital Broker to Resolution in November the third markets: to provide cashflow and enable investment FTSE client and seventh overall Corporate in the future.
The right type of lending is different for Go online Broking win last year.
every client: from overdraft facilities and asset-based For more information go to finance, to rights issues and syndicated loans.
com annualreport10 In order to fund the cash component of the acquisition, Resolution announced a fully underwritten rights issue of approximately 2bn, and agreed a fully underwritten bridge Mayfly Containers expands into overseas markets facility of 400m.
In 2009, Mayfly identified an opportunity to expand Financing and executing the deal saw Barclays into overseas markets, focusing primarily on China Capital hold multiple roles, including Joint and Brazil.
Barclays Corporate was able to assist the Underwriter, Joint Bookrunner and Joint Corporate company with their expansion strategy by providing Broker on the rights issue, Joint Lead Arranger on foreign exchange expertise, information on rates, the bridge facility and Joint Financial Adviser to and risk management solutions to help protect the Resolution on both the rights issue and the business from currency fluctuations.
The bridge facility was also jointly underwritten by Barclays Capital.
David Rudge, Finance Director, said: When we took the decision to expand into overseas In the firms first lead role in a significant equity markets, Barclays Corporate was able to assist capital raising in Europe, and its first advisory role Established in 1983 Mayfly is a family-run business us with our foreign exchange requirements.
for Resolution, Barclays Capital demonstrated based in Derbyshire which manufactures containers Our joint venture established in Brazil is proving the strength of teamwork across the firm in used for the deep-sea off-shore oil and gas successful and we continue to expand our delivering seamless capital markets, acquisition industries.
Barclays Corporate has banked the operations in the export markets.
