24 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Citizenship Our role is to help improve the lives of our customers.
We must provide mortgages, allow businesses to invest and create jobs, protect savings, pay tax, be a good neighbour in the community while also generating positive economic returns for our investors Bob Diamond, Chief Executive Our key areas of focus are contributing to growth and supporting our In the last five years, Barclays employees have volunteered communities.
Underpinning these is a foundation of sound business principles and practice that ensures integrity in the way we do business.
over one million hours in their local communities and raised more than 75m through our matched fundraising scheme Our Group Executive Committee is responsible for our overall citizenship strategy, and supports the Chief Executive in its implementation.
This Committee, along with the Board, uses a robust reporting framework to review progress.
Barclays Climate Action Programme 2011-2015 is our direct response to issues concerning the environment and climate change.
We are focusing on the areas Contributing to growth where we have the greatest potential to make a difference, including: We employ nearly 150,000 people around the world.
In 2010, 2,000 new jobs Managing our carbon footprint including a commitment to reduce absolute were created and 1,200 graduates were hired in the UK, bringing the total UK carbon emissions by 4% by 2013 and creating an African Carbon Fund to employee number to 65,000.
Our global tax contributions amounted to 6.1bn, supply seed capital to carbon mitigation projects in Africa including 2.8bn paid in the UK.
In addition, we paid more than 8.7bn to suppliers in 37 countries.
Developing products and services to help enable the transition to a lowcarbon economy including financing and risk-management solutions In 2010, Barclays provided 43bn of gross new lending in the UK including to enable capital to flow to lower carbon opportunities 7.5bn from the acquisition of Standard Life Bank and assisted more than Managing climate change risks including collaborating with other 106,000 business start-ups, an increase of 12% over 2009.
In South Africa, stakeholders to manage the risks of climate change to our operations, Absas Enterprise Development Centres helped almost 5,000 new businesses our clients and to society at large.
In 2010, four out of five Barclays UK business lending applications were approved Citizenship Were helping our customers, clients and other stakeholders invest in ways that contribute to growth tomorrow.
We are providing financing solutions to private Contributing to growth Supporting our communities and public sector clients, facilitating investment in infrastructure, development Direct contribution, employment Supporting social infrastructure and the low carbon economy.
and economic value added Increasing access to financial Supporting our communities Supporting growth today: services In 2010, we committed over 55m to community programmes across 37 customers and clients Investing in the community countries.
Our programmes are driven by the passion and energy of 62,118 colleagues around the world, who volunteered their time or took part in Investing in tomorrow Building a diverse workforce fundraising and regular giving.
These efforts benefitted 1.5 million people and supported more than 8,000 organisations.
Managing our environmental footprint The way we do business Barclays PLC Annual Review 2010 www.
com annualreport10 25 Go online Further information on our citizenship approach can be found online at www.
com citizenship Supporting UK SMEs Barclays Business Support Team identifies and works with customers who are experiencing financial difficulty.
In 2010, 80% of the small and medium sized business customers with whom we agreed turnaround strategies were successfully restored to financial health.
The Business Support Team engages with a number of businesses at the earliest signs of difficulty, facilitating financial and operational advice and creating lending arrangements more suited to the long term needs of the business involved.
The credit team undertakes proactive identification of financially stressed customers, with reactive engagement carried out by the Business Support Team working alongside the customers relationship manager.
This maintains close links and consistency throughout the relationship.
43bn gross new lending to UK households and businesses 106,000 business start-ups supported in the UK Investing in our communities Barclays Spaces for Sports is a global programme that recognises the power of sport to deliver social change.
Since 2004, Barclays has committed 37m towards bringing sustainable sports sites and projects to disadvantaged communities.
After launching 200 community sports sites in the UK, the programme was extended globally in 2008.
In 2010, we offered young people excluded from mainstream education across England the chance to join FairPlay, a rugby-based education programme in partnership with the childrens charity Wooden Spoon, the Rugby Football Union and the Education Enterprise Trust.
The initiative provides training schemes for more than 2,400 young people in pupil referral units.
The scheme also includes classroom sessions where young people are taught how to 55.3m invested in our communities in 2010 manage their finances through the Barclays Money Skills programme.
62,000 colleagues engaged in our community programme Financing a low carbon economy Barclays assists renewable energy firms to access finance from the capital markets and offers advisory services across the sector.
The transition to a low carbon economy requires a range of solutions including new clean forms of generating energy, clean technologies and infrastructure improvements.
Barclays published the Carbon Capital report to provide analysis of this opportunity over the next ten years.
In Ireland, Barclays has supported the expansion of the onshore wind sector and played a strategic financing role in vital energy infrastructure projects.
An example of this is our central role in financing EirGrid's East West Interconnector project.
This will allow Ireland to integrate more closely with Involved in 7bn worth of total transactions in the clean Western European energy markets and release pressure on the domestic grid while still growing its low carbon generation base.
energy and cleantech sector in 2010 5.37bn tonnes of carbon traded to date, with a notional value of 72bn
