270 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31st December 2010 continued 45 Critical accounting estimates continued Retirement benefit obligations The Group provides pension plans for employees in most parts of the world.
Arrangements for staff retirement benets vary from country to country and are made in accordance with local regulations and customs.
For dened contribution schemes, the pension cost recognised in the income statement represents the contributions payable to the scheme.
For dened benefit schemes, actuarial valuation of each of the schemes obligations using the projected unit credit method and the fair valuation of each of the schemes assets are performed annually in accordance with the requirements of IAS 19.
The actuarial valuation is dependent upon a series of assumptions, the key ones being interest rates, mortality, investment returns and ination.
Mortality estimates are based on standard industry and national mortality tables, adjusted where appropriate to reect the Groups own experience.
The returns on xed interest investments are set to market yields at the valuation date less an allowance for risk to ensure consistency with the asset valuation.
The returns on UK and overseas equities are based on the long-term outlook for global equities at the calculation date having regard to current market yields and dividend growth expectations.
The ination assumption reects long-term expectations of retail price ination.
The Groups IAS 19 pension deficit across all schemes as at 31st December 2010 was 2,896m 2009: 3,946m.
There are net recognised liabilities of 239m 2009: 698m and unrecognised actuarial losses of 2,657m 2009: 3,248m.
The net recognised liabilities comprised retirement benefit liabilities of 365m 2009: 769m and assets of 126m 2009: 71m.
The Groups IAS 19 pension deficit in respect of the main UK scheme as at 31st December 2010 was 2,552m 2009: 3,534m.
The reduction in the deficit resulted principally from better than expected asset performance, contributions paid in excess of the pension expense and a credit to past service costs following amendments to the treatment of minimum dened benets.
Further information on retirement benefit obligations, including the sensitivity of principal assumptions, is included on pages 228 to 233.
Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset, or a portion of a financial asset, where the contractual rights to that asset have expired.
Derecognition is also appropriate where the rights to further cash ows from the asset have been transferred to a third party and, with them, either: i substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset: or ii significant risks and rewards, along with the unconditional ability to sell or pledge the asset.
Where significant risks and rewards have been transferred, but the transferee does not have the unconditional ability to sell or pledge the asset, the Group continues to account for the asset to the extent of its continuing involvement continuing involvement accounting.
To assess the extent to which risks and rewards have been transferred, it is often necessary to perform a quantitative analysis.
Such an analysis will compare the Groups exposure to variability in asset cash ows before the transfer with its retained exposure after the transfer.
A cash ow analysis of this nature typically involves significant judgement.
In particular, it is necessary to estimate the assets expected future cash ows as well as potential variability around this expectation.
The method of estimating expected future cash ows depends on the nature of the asset, with market and market-implied data used to the greatest extent possible.
The potential variability around this expectation is typically determined by stressing underlying parameters to create reasonable alternative upside and downside scenarios.
Probabilities are then assigned to each scenario.
Stressed parameters may include default rates, loss severity or prepayment rates.
Where neither derecognition nor continuing involvement accounting is appropriate, the Group continues to recognise the asset in its entirety and recognises any consideration received as a financial liability.
Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions and the calculation of the Groups tax charge and worldwide provisions for income taxes necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax treatment is uncertain and cannot be determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due after taking into account external advice where appropriate.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities in the period in which such determination is made.
These risks are managed in accordance with the Groups Tax Principal Risk Framework.
46 Events after the balance sheet date On 22 February 2011, the US Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York issued its opinion in relation to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.. Further information is provided on page 227.
On 1st March 2011, Barclays agreed to acquire Eggs UK credit card assets.
Under the terms of the transaction, Barclays will purchase Eggs UK credit card accounts, consisting of approximately 1.15 million credit card accounts with approximately 2.3bn of gross receivables.
Completion is subject to competition clearance, and is expected to occur during the first half of 2011.
