About Barclays Strategy Performance Risk management and governance Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 41 Financial review Balance sheet commentary Total assets Total liabilities Total assets increased 111bn to 1,490bn.
Cash, balances at central banks and items in the course of collection have Deposits and items in the course of collection from banks and customer increased 15.9bn contributing to the increase in the Group liquidity pool.
accounts increased 24.7bn reecting the acquisition of Standard Life Trading portfolio assets increased 17.5bn and reverse repurchase and Bank and customer deposit growth across the Group.
Financial liabilities other similar secured lending increased 62.3bn reecting business designated at fair value increased 9.8bn primarily due to increased growth while maintaining adjusted gross leverage at 20x.
Financial debt securities and debt issuances strengthening the Groups liquidity assets designated at fair value have decreased by 1.1bn primarily due position.
Debt securities in issue increased 20.7bn primarily due to to a decrease in debt securities.
increases in bonds, medium term notes, certicates of deposit and commercial paper.
This growth was primarily to fund the increased Derivative financial assets increased 3.5bn reecting increases in liquidity pool and business growth.
the mark to market positions in interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives due to movements in forward interest rate curves and volatility Trading portfolio liabilities increased 21.4bn and repurchase agreements in the foreign exchange market.
This was partially offset by decreases in and other similar secured borrowing increased 26.8bn reecting business credit, equity and commodities derivatives due to reduced volatility.
Derivative financial liabilities increased 2.1bn broadly in line with the increase in gross derivative assets.
Loans and advances to banks and customers increased 4.4bn due to an increase in lending to retail customers, including the effect of Subordinated liabilities increased 2.7bn primarily reecting issuances and the acquisition of Standard Life Bank, offset by a reduction in borrowings acquisitions partially offset by redemptions.
Other liabilities decreased by wholesale customers and banks.
1.4bn reecting reduced retirement benefit liabilities, current tax liabilities and other creditors.
Available for sale financial investments increased 8.6bn primarily driven by purchase of government bonds increasing the Groups liquid assets and the transfer from loans and advances to available for sale assets of the receivables arising as part of the acquisition of the North American business of Lehman Brothers.
This was partially offset by a 0.8bn reduction in the fair value of the Groups investment in BlackRock, Inc.
