236 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31st December 2010 continued 32 Investment in subsidiaries continued Following the restructuring of Group operations in the US during the year, Barclays Group US Inc. is no longer a US Bank Holding Company.
Full information of all subsidiaries will be included in the Annual Return to be led at UK Companies House.
Entities in which the Group holds less than half the voting rights There are a number of entities in which the Group holds less than half the voting rights which are consolidated when the substance of the relationship between the Group and the entity indicates that the entity is controlled by the Group.
Such entities are deemed to be controlled by the Group when relationships with such entities give rise to benets that are in substance no different from those that would arise were the entity a subsidiary.
The consolidation of such entities may be appropriate in a number of situations, but primarily when: the operating and financial policies of the entity are closely dened from the outset i. e. it operates on an autopilot basis with such policies being largely determined by the Group: the Group has rights to obtain the majority of the benets of the entity and or retains the majority of the residual or ownership risks related to the entity: or the activities of the entity are being conducted largely on behalf of the Group according to its specic business objectives.
Such entities are created for a variety of purposes including securitisation, structuring, asset realisation, intermediation and management.
Subsidiaries with a different reporting date from that of the Parent of 31st December Entities may have a different reporting date from that of the parent of 31st December.
Dates may differ for a variety of reasons including local reporting regulations or tax laws.
In accordance with our accounting policies, for the purpose of inclusion in the consolidated financial statements of Barclays PLC, entities with different reporting dates are made up until 31st December.
Entities where the Groups interest exceeds 50% which are excluded from consolidation Although the Groups interest in the equity voting rights in certain entities exceeds 50%, or it may have the power to appoint a majority of their Boards of Directors, they are excluded from consolidation because the Group either does not direct the financial and operating policies of these entities, or on the grounds that another entity has a controlling interest in them.
Consequently, these entities are not deemed to be controlled by Barclays.
The table below includes information in relation to such entities as required by the Companies Act 2006 Section 410 2 b.
Percentage of ordinary Equity Retained share shareholders profit for the capital held funds year Country of registration or incorporation Name % m m UK Fitzroy Finance Limited 100 Cayman Islands Palomino Limited 100 1 33 profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures During the year, the profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures was 81m 2009: 188m, principally relating to the disposal of Barclays Africa custody business to Standard Chartered Bank for a consideration of 81m generating a gain on disposal before tax of 77m.
During 2009, the Group disposed of 50% of Barclays Vida y Pensiones Compaa fide Seguros and the 7% of Barclays Africa Botswana business for consideration of 276m generating a gain on disposal before tax of 184m.
34 Discontinued operations On 1st December 2009 the Group completed the sale of BGI to BlackRock, Inc. BlackRock recognising a profit on disposal before tax of 6,331m.
The tax charge of 43m reects the application of UK substantial shareholdings relief in accordance with UK tax law.
The consideration at completion was $15.2bn 9.5bn, including 37.567 million new BlackRock shares, giving an economic interest of 19.9% of the enlarged BlackRock group.
Barclays Group holds 4.9% of the voting rights and under the terms of the transaction may not acquire additional voting rights and will vote in accordance with the recommendations of the BlackRock Board of Directors.
John Varley and Bob Diamond were appointed to the BlackRock Board, which comprises 18 Directors.
The Group is not deemed to exercise significant inuence and the investment has been accounted for as an available for sale equity investment.
