About Barclays Strategy Performance Risk management and governance Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 239 36 Securitisations The Group was party to securitisation transactions involving its residential mortgage loans, business loans and credit card balances.
In addition, the Group acts as a conduit for commercial paper, whereby it acquires static pools of residential mortgage loans from other lending institutions for securitisation transactions.
In these transactions, the assets, or interests in the assets, or beneficial interests in the cash ows arising from the assets, are transferred to a special purpose entity, or to a trust which then transfers its beneficial interests to a special purpose entity, which then issues oating rate debt securities to third-party investors.
Securitisations may, depending on the individual arrangement, result in continued recognition of the securitised assets and the recognition of the debt securities issued in the transaction: lead to partial continued recognition of the assets to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in those assets or to derecognition of the assets and the separate recognition, as assets or liabilities, of any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer.
Full derecognition only occurs when the Group transfers both its contractual right to receive cash ows from the financial assets, or retains the contractual rights to receive the cash ows, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash ows to another party without material delay or reinvestment, and also transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, including credit risk, prepayment risk and interest rate risk.
The following table shows the carrying amount of securitised assets, stated at the amount of the Groups continuing involvement where appropriate, together with the associated liabilities, for each category of asset on the balance sheet: 2010 2009 Carrying Carrying amount of Associated amount of Associated assets liabilities assets liabilities m m m m Loans and advances to customers Residential mortgage loans 9,709 10,674 10,374 10,738 Credit card receivables 801 723 1,288 1,288 Other personal lending 94 124 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 2,560 2,878 4,835 5,999 Total 13,070 14,275 16,591 18,149 Assets designated at fair value through profit or loss Retained interest in residential mortgage loans 5 26 Balances included within loans and advances to customers represent securitisations where substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset have been retained by the Group.
The excess of total associated liabilities over the carrying amount of assets primarily reects timing differences in the receipt and payment of cash ows, and foreign exchange movements where the assets and associated liabilities are denominated in different currencies.
Foreign exchange movements and associated risks are hedged economically through the use of cross currency swap derivative contracts.
Retained interests in residential mortgage loans are securities which represent a continuing exposure to the prepayment and credit risk in the underlying securitised assets.
The total amount of the loans was 15,458m 2009: 14,795m.
The retained interest is initially recorded as an allocation of the original carrying amount based on the relative fair values of the portion derecognised and the portion retained.
