30 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Full Annual Report The Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement is only a summary of information in the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010.
Please note that this Annual Review, Summary Financial Statement and Summary remuneration report does not contain sufficient information to allow a full understanding of the results of the Group and the state of affairs of the This Review is printed on Revive 100 White Offset Company or of the Group.
For further information consult the Annual Report made from 100% FSC certified recycled fibre 2010.
You can obtain a copy of the Annual Report 2010 and may also elect to sourced from fide-inked post-consumer waste.
receive all future Annual Reports, free of charge, by telephoning our Registrar on The printer and manufacturing mill are both credited 0871 384 2055 or you can view a copy at: www.
com annualreport10 with ISO14001 Environmental Management Systems Standard and both are FSC certified.
The Annual Report 2010 contains the Directors report, the Remuneration report, the Auditors report and the Financial Statements.
Registered office: 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP The Auditors report on the full accounts for the year ended 31st December 2010 Registered in England.
Registered No: 48839 was unqualified and did not include a statement under sections 498 2 accounting records or returns inadequate or accounts not agreeing with records Barclays Bank PLC 2011 and returns or 498 3 failure to obtain necessary information and explanations of the Companies Act 2006.
The statement under section 496 whether 9911689 Directors report is consistent with accounts was unqualified.
Designed by Further Go online www.
co. uk For more information on our Annual Report go to www.
com annualreport10 Cover photography by Paul Grundy Board photography by Iain Crockart Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute if calling from a BT landline.
Call charges may vary if using other telephone providers.
Forward-looking statements This document contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to certain of the Groups plans and its current goals and expectations relating to its future financial condition and performance.
Barclays cautions readers that no forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements sometimes use words such as may, will, seek, continue, aim, anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe or other words of similar meaning.
Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements regarding the Groups future financial position, income growth, assets, impairment charges, business strategy, capital ratios, leverage, payment of dividends, projected levels of growth in the banking and financial markets, projected costs, estimates of capital expenditures, and plans and objectives for future operations and other statements that are not historical fact.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances, including, but not limited to, UK domestic and global economic and business conditions, the effects of continued volatility in credit markets, market related risks such as changes in interest rates and exchange rates, effects of changes in valuation of credit market exposures, changes in valuation of issued notes, the policies and actions of governmental and regulatory authorities, changes in legislation, the further development of standards and interpretations under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS applicable to past, current and future periods, evolving practices with regard to the interpretation and application of standards under IFRS, the outcome of pending and future litigation, the success of future acquisitions and other strategic transactions and the impact of competition a number of which factors are beyond the Groups control.
As a result, the Groups actual future results may differ materially from the plans, goals, and expectations set forth in the Groups forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statements made herein speak only as of the date they are made.
Except as required by the UK Financial Services Authority FSA, the London Stock Exchange or applicable law, Barclays expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forwardlooking statements contained in this announcement to reflect any change in Barclays expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
The reader should, however, consult any additional disclosures that Barclays has made or may make in documents it has filed or may file with the Securities Exchange Commission SEC.
