268 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31st December 2010 continued 43 Segmental reporting continued Geographical information i A geographical analysis of revenues from external customers is presented below: 2010 2009 2008 m m m Continuing operations UK and Ireland 12,807 12,946 12,023 Europe region 4,735 4,359 4,009 Americas 7,742 6,531 51 Africa 4,697 4,016 3,587 Asia 1,459 1,271 1,529 Total 31,440 29,123 21,199 Individual countries which represent more than 5% of income from external customers are as follows: 2010 2009 2008 m m m UK 12,714 12,850 11,958 US 7,172 5,547 471 South Africa 3,684 2,980 2,618 In 2009, discontinued operations of the Barclays Global Investors business included 432m 2008: 319m relating to UK and Ireland, 1,084m 2008: 1,181m relating to Americas and 347m 2008: 416m relating to Rest of the World.
44 Financial risks, liquidity and capital management The disclosures required under IFRS relating to financial risks and capital resources have been included within the Risk management and governance section on pages 82 to 136.
This move has been to improve transparency and ease of reference, by concentrating related information in one place, and to reduce duplication.
The relevant disclosures havbe been marked as audited and can be found as follows: credit risk, on pages 82 to 117: market risk, on pages 118 to 125: capital resources, on pages 126 to 130: and liquidity risk, on pages 131 to 136.
45 Critical accounting estimates The Groups accounting policies are set out on pages 194 to 205.
Certain of these policies, as well as estimates made by management, are considered to be important to an understanding of the Groups financial condition since they require management to make difficult, complex or subjective judgements and estimates, some of which may relate to matters that are inherently uncertain.
The following accounting policies include estimates which are particularly sensitive in terms of judgements and the extent to which estimates are used.
Other accounting policies involve significant amounts of judgements and estimates, but the total amounts involved are not significant to the financial statements.
Management has discussed the accounting policies and critical accounting estimates with the Board Audit Committee.
Fair value of financial instruments Some of the Groups financial instruments are carried at fair value through profit or loss, such as those held for trading, designated by management under the fair value option and non-cash ow hedging derivatives.
Other non-derivative financial assets may be designated as available for sale.
Available for sale financial investments are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently held at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value of such assets are included as a separate component of equity.
An analysis of financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation hierarchy, particulars of the valuation techniques used and a sensitivity analysis of valuations using unobservable inputs is included in Note 41.
This note also includes a discussion of the more judgemental aspects of valuation in the period, including: credit valuation adjustments on monoline exposures, commercial real estate loans, private equity investments, and fair value loans to government and business and other services.
Approximately 2.6bn of the assets acquired as part of the 2008 acquisition of the North American business of Lehman Brothers had not been received by 31st December 2010.
Approximately 2.0bn of this amount was recognised as part of the acquisition accounting and is included as an available for sale asset in the balance sheet.
As discussed in Note 26, on 22nd February 2011 the Court issued its Opinion in relation to the related legal proceedings.
This Opinion holds that Barclays is not entitled to receive approximately 1.3bn, and is only conditionally entitled to receive approximately 0.5bn, of the undelivered assets.
In addition, the Opinion holds that Barclays is not entitled to approximately 1.3bn of assets it has already received.
About Barclays Strategy Performance Risk management and governance Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 269 45 Critical accounting estimates continued The anticipated final Order, referred to in Note 26, should clarify the precise impact of the decisions set forth in the Opinion, and may be the subject of further proceedings or appeals by one or more of the parties concerned.
Barclays has considered the Opinion, the decisions contained therein and its possible actions with respect thereto.
As a result, there is significant judgement involved in the valuation of this asset.
There is uncertainty relating to the interpretation of the Opinion and also the potential for further proceedings or appeals by the parties involved.
The Group takes the view that the effective allowance of 0.6bn that is reected in its estimate of fair value is appropriate.
If the Opinion were to be unaffected by future proceedings and appeals, Barclays estimates that its maximum possible loss, based on its worst case reading of the Opinion, would be approximately 2.6bn, after taking into account the 0.6bn effective provision.
The appropriate valuation of this asset will be kept under review as legal proceedings progress.
Allowances for impairment Allowances for loan impairment represent managements estimate of the losses incurred in the loan portfolios as at the balance sheet date.
Changes to the allowances for loan impairment and changes to the provisions for undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees provided are reported in the consolidated income statement as part of the impairment charge.
Provision is made for undrawn loan commitments and similar facilities if it is probable that the facility will be drawn and result in recognition of an asset at an amount less than the amount advanced.
Within the retail and small businesses portfolios, which comprise large numbers of small homogeneous assets with similar risk characteristics where credit scoring techniques are generally used, statistical techniques are used to calculate impairment allowances on a portfolio basis, based on historical recovery rates and assumed emergence periods.
These statistical analyses use as primary inputs the extent to which accounts in the portfolio are in arrears and historical information on the eventual losses encountered from such delinquent portfolios.
There are many such models in use, each tailored to a product, line of business or customer category.
Judgement and knowledge is needed in selecting the statistical methods to use when the models are developed or revised.
The impairment allowance reected in the financial statements for these portfolios is therefore considered to be reasonable and supportable.
The impairment charge reected in the income statement for these retail portfolios is 3,296m 2009: 3,919m and amounts to 59% 2009: 53% of the total impairment charge on loans and advances in 2010.
For individually significant assets, impairment allowances are calculated on an individual basis and all relevant considerations that have a bearing on the expected future cash ows are taken into account, for example, the business prospects for the customer, the realisable value of collateral, the Groups position relative to other claimants, the reliability of customer information and the likely cost and duration of the work-out process.
The level of the impairment allowance is the difference between the value of the discounted expected future cash ows discounted at the loans original effective interest rate, and its carrying amount.
Subjective judgements are made in the calculation of future cash ows.
Furthermore, judgements change with time as new information becomes available or as work-out strategies evolve, resulting in frequent revisions to the impairment allowance as individual decisions are taken.
Changes in these estimates would result in a change in the allowances and have a direct impact on the impairment charge.
The impairment charge reected in the financial statements in relation to wholesale portfolios is 2,329m 2009: 3,439m and amounts to 41% 2009: 47% of the total impairment charge on loans and advances.
Further information on impairment allowances and related credit information is set out within the credit risk management section on page 97.
The fair value of the Groups 19.9% holding in BlackRock, Inc. was 4.6bn as at 31st December 2010, as compared to 5.4bn as at 31st December 2009 and 5.1bn at original acquisition date 1st December 2009.
For an available-for-sale equity instrument, impairment should be recognised if any decline in fair value is significant or prolonged.
The observed decline is not considered either significant or prolonged, in light of an increase in share price through the second half of the year and ongoing price volatility.
The Groups loan to Protium Finance LP, as detailed on pages 114 to 116, is collateralised by underlying financial assets of the borrower.
The cash ow expected to be generated by Protiums assets over their contractual term would be sufficient to enable loan repayment.
However, following a reassessment of the period over which the loan is expected to be realised, it is considered appropriate to record an impairment calculated by reference to the fair value of these assets.
This has resulted in the recognition of an impairment charge of 532m as at 31st December 2010.
Goodwill Management have to consider at least annually whether the current carrying value of goodwill is impaired.
The first step of the process requires the identication of independent cash generating units and the allocation of goodwill to these units.
This allocation is based on the areas of the business expected to benefit from the synergies derived from the acquisition.
The allocation is reviewed following business reorganisation.
The carrying value of the unit, including the allocated goodwill, is compared to its fair value to determine whether any impairment exists.
If the fair value of a unit is less than its carrying value, goodwill will be impaired.
Detailed calculations may need to be carried out taking into consideration changes in the market in which a business operates e. g. competitive activity, regulatory change.
In the absence of readily available market price data this calculation is based upon discounting expected pre-tax cash ows at a risk adjusted interest rate appropriate to the operating unit, the determination of both of which requires the exercise of judgement.
The estimation of pre-tax cash ows is sensitive to the periods for which detailed forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding the long-term sustainable cash ows.
While forecasts are compared with actual performance and external economic data, expected cash ows naturally reect managements view of future performance.
The most significant amounts of goodwill relate to UK Retail Banking and Absa, where goodwill impairment testing performed in 2010 indicated that this goodwill was not impaired.
An analysis of goodwill by cluster, together with key assumptions underlying the impairment testing, is included in Note 19 on page 219.
Intangible assets Intangible assets that derive their value from contractual customer relationships or that can be separated and sold and have a nite useful life are amortised over their estimated useful life.
Determining the estimated useful life of these nite life intangible assets requires an analysis of circumstances, and judgement by the Groups management.
At each balance sheet date, or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances dictate, intangible assets are assessed for indications of impairment.
If indications are present, these assets are subject to an impairment review.
The impairment review comprises a comparison of the carrying amount of the asset with its recoverable amount: the higher of the assets or the cash-generating units net selling price and its value in use.
Net selling price is calculated by reference to the amount at which the asset could be disposed of in a binding sale agreement in an arms length transaction evidenced by an active market or recent transactions for similar assets.
Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected future cash ows obtainable as a result of the assets continued use, including those resulting from its ultimate disposal, at a market-based discount rate on a pre-tax basis.
The most significant amounts of intangible assets relate to Absa and Lehman Brothers North American businesses.
