About Barclays Strategy Performance Risk management and governance Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 147 have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable the Directors has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing accounts.
information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
For these purposes, relevant audit information means Internal control information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that management maintain an effective system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Annual General Meeting Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and The Barclays PLC AGM will be held at the Royal Festival Hall on Wednesday 27th April 2011.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is included in a not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Throughout the year ended 31st December 2010, and to date, the Group has operated separate document sent to shareholders with this report.
A summary of the resolutions being proposed at the 2011 AGM is set out below.
a system of internal control which provides reasonable assurance of effective and efficient operations covering all controls, including financial Ordinary Resolutions and operational controls and compliance with laws and regulations.
Processes are in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the To receive the Directors and Auditors Reports and the audited accounts for the year ended 31st December 2010: significant risks facing the Group in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Board regularly reviews these 31st December 2010: processes through its principal Board Committees.
To re-elect each of the Directors of the Company: The Directors review the effectiveness of the system of internal control To reappoint  LLP as auditors of the Company: semi-annually.
An internal control compliance certication process is conducted throughout the Group in support of this review.
The To authorise the Directors to set the remuneration of the auditors: effectiveness of controls is periodically reviewed within the business areas.
To authorise Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries to make political Regular reports are made to the Board Audit Committee by management, donations and incur political expenditure: Internal Audit and the finance, compliance and legal functions covering particularly financial controls, compliance and operational controls.
To renew the authority given to Directors to allot securities: The Board Audit Committee monitors resolution of any identied control To approve and adopt the rules of the new Barclays Long Term Incentive issues of Group level signicance through to a satisfactory conclusion.
Plan: and The Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework GICAF describes To approve and adopt the rules of the Barclays Share Value Plan.
the Groups approach to internal control and details Group policies and processes.
The GICAF is reviewed and approved on behalf of the Chief Special Resolutions To renew the authority given to the Directors to allot securities for cash Executive by the Group Governance and Control Committee.
other than on a pro-rata basis to shareholders and to sell treasury shares: Regular risk reports are made to the Board covering risks of Group signicance including credit risk, market risk, operational risk and legal To renew the Companys authority to purchase its own shares: and risk.
Reports covering credit, market and operational risk, key risks, risk measurement methodologies and risk appetite are made to the Board To permit General Meetings to continue to be called on 14 clear days notice.
Further details of risk management procedures are given in the Risk management section on pages 66 to 142.
This is only a summary of the business to be transacted at the meeting Managements report on internal control over financial reporting and you should refer to the Notice of Annual General Meeting for full details.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
Internal control over financial Going concern reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the principal executive and principal financial ofcers to provide reasonable assurance The Groups business activities and financial position: the factors likely to affect its future development and performance: and its objectives and regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed and its financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with capital are discussed in the Business Review.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The Directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated economic conditions, the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Company and the Group
