Operational update As the business has grown, the value of cross-team collaboration in areas of strategic importance is increasingly recognised.
David Marock Chief operating officer Scalability is an important requirement for an insurance Both of these are core competencies of Beazley.
At Beazley we take it to mean, not just continuing of intensifying competition across our business lines, the to deliver the same level of service as we grow, but wherever quality of our claims service is a reason for clients to possible improving on our service to clients and to brokers.
choose Beazley over our competitors.
And ever since the company was founded in 1986, recruiting exceptional In 2010, our business, in common with that of other prudent underwriting and claims talent has been fundamental to insurers, did not grow overall, although we continued to our success.
expand in select targeted markets where we saw short-term as well as long-term profit potential.
But our focus on Beazley was established as an underwriting-focused delivering an exceptional service in the most efficient manner business in 1986 and it remains one.
But as the company possible remained steady.
We also took steps to equip our has grown and become more complex, leadership skills teams to capitalise on future growth opportunities.
which are not necessarily to be found in the underwriters toolbox have become increasingly important.
In 2010, we Philippe Mazas, chief information officer, and the IT team conducted our first leadership survey at Beazley, to help the continued to develop Beazley Pro, the underwriting and policy heads of teams understand how they are perceived by their administration system that we launched in the US in 2009. team members.
Penny Malik, head of talent management, The growth of our small professional liability business and our talent management team have put in place a described on page 31 of this report is due in large measure leadership development and training programme to enable to our success in responding to brokers submissions our senior people to act on these insights.
extremely rapidly a service that relies on Beazley Pro.
We see such business as offering significant growth potential in Most of the business transacted at Beazley starts and the UK and continental Europe, as well as in the US, and we ends with individual teams focusing on individual lines of are committed to supporting this business with the most business.
The business has grown successfully in this way, advanced systems available.
but the value of cross-team collaboration in areas of strategic importance is also recognised.
Two such crossOther technology investments are designed to support our team initiatives in 2010 focused on the development of efforts to establish closer, more productive relationships with our business in Europe, in support of which we created the brokers upon who we rely for business.
In the coming a European Group, led by David Marock, and appointed year we will be rolling out our new customer relationship underwriters as country champions to coordinate our management system to provide all underwriters with instant approach to business development in six countries: and access to detailed broker records and meeting notes.
innovation and product development, led by Tina Kirby.
We also continue to invest more generally in improving our Tinas role is to identify the best ideas from across the ability to access and analyse data.
Paolo Cuomo is driving company and ensure they receive the resources and the development of BeazleyIntelligence, our new data support they need to develop.
warehouse and reporting toolkit, which is already enriching our data analytics.
The physical fabric of our offices has always been an important dimension of working at Beazley.
We are always Efficiency in a business is in large measure a matter of pleased to hear, particularly in the US, that our offices look optimising the balance between activities that are more like the home of an advertising agency than an undertaken in-house and those that are outsourced to traditional insurance company bright, airy, open plan, external service providers.
Activities that rank as core and conducive to creativity.
Under Munira Hirji, head of competencies are usually better performed in-house.
commercial managements guidance, we consolidated our In 2010, we modified this balance in two important areas: offices in New York, San Francisco and Boston in 2010 into claims service for a number of our teams in the US and new and better premises, achieving significant annual global recruitment.
In the former case, we began to move savings in a commercial real estate market that remains responsibility for claims handling away from external law very competitive, while giving ourselves plenty of scope to firms known as monitoring counsel to our own internal grow in future.
In the latter case, we made significant savings on consultants by using our internal recruitment team for searches.
