Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1 Statement of accounting policies Beazley plc is a company incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Ireland.
The group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 comprise the parent company and its subsidiaries and the groups interest in associates.
Both the financial statements of the parent company, Beazley plc, and the group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these group financial statements.
All new standards and interpretations released by International Accounting Standards Board IASB have been considered and of these the following new and amended standards have been adopted by the group during the period.
IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements.
The amendment is part of the IASBs annual improvements project published in April 2009.
The amendment provides clarification that the potential settlement of a liability by the issue of equity is not relevant to its classification as current or non-current.
By amending the definition of current liability, the amendment permits a liability to be classified as non-current provided that the entity has an unconditional right to defer settlement by transfer of cash or other assets for at least 12 months after the accounting period notwithstanding the fact that the entity could be required by the counterparty to settle in shares at any time.
The group and company will apply IAS 1 amendment from 1 January 2010.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the group or companys financial statements.
The group and company has applied IAS 1 amendment from 1 January 2010.
It has not had a material impact on the group or companys financial statements.
IFRS 2 amended Group Cash-settled share based payments transactions.
This amendment defines vesting conditions as service and performance conditions only, the standard states that features of a share-based payment that are not vesting conditions should be included in the grant date fair value of the share-based payment.
The standard also requires that all cancellations are accounted for as an acceleration of the vesting period and as such amounts unrecognised at the cancellation date that would have been otherwise charged should be recognised immediately.
The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations, with some significant changes.
For example, all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classified as debt subsequently re-measured through the income statement.
There is a choice on an  basis to measure the minority interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the minority interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
All acquisition-related costs should be expensed.
The group decide to apply IFRS 3 revised prospectively to all business combinations from 1 January 2010 and therefore there is no impact on prior periods in the groups 2010 group financial statements.
IAS 27 amended Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
This amendment is to enhance the relevance, reliability and comparability of the information that a parent entity provides for a group of entities under its control.
IAS 39 amended Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items.
The amendment was issued in July 2008.
IAS 39 concludes that a purchased option designated in its entirety as the hedging instrument of a one-sided risk will not be perfectly effective.
The designation of inflation as a hedged risk or portion is not permitted unless in particular situations.
It does not have a material impact on the group or companys financial statements.
IAS 39 amended Reclassification of financial assets: Effective Date and Transition permits an entity to reclassify non-derivative financial assets other than those designated at fair value through income by the entity upon initial recognition out of the fair value through income category in particular circumstances.
The amendment also permits an entity to transfer from the available-for-sale category to the loans and receivables category a financial asset that would have met the definition of loans and receivables if the financial asset had not been designated as available for sale, if the entity has the intention and ability to hold that financial asset for the foreseeable future.
The group did not elect to reclassify any financial assets following adoption of these standards.
The amendment relaxes the disclosures of transactions between government-related entities and clarifies relatedparty definition.
The amendment does not have an impact on the group or companys financial statements.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation clarifies the accounting treatment in respect of net investment hedging.
This includes the fact that net investment hedging relates to differences in functional currency not presentation currency, and hedging instruments may be held anywhere in the group.
The requirements of IAS 21, The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, do apply to the hedged item.
This interpretation does not have a material impact on the groups financial statements.
In addition, the following is a list of standards or interpretations that are in issue and endorsed by the EU but have not yet been adopted by the company, together with the effective date of application to the company: IAS 32 Amendment: Classification of Rights Issues effective 1 January 2011 IFRIC 19: Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments effective 1 January 2011 IFRIC 14 Amendment: Prepayment of a Minimum Funding Requirement relating to IAS 19 effective 1 January 2011.
The implementation of these standards and interpretations is not currently expected to have a material impact on the company.
New holding company Beazley plc was incorporated in Jersey on 20 February 2009 under the Jersey Companies Law as a public company limited by shares and with registered number 102680.
With effect from 9 June 2009, under a scheme of arrangement involving a share exchange with the members of Beazley group plc, the company became the new holding company of the Beazley group of companies.
Beazley Annual Report 2010 85 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Statement of accounting policies continued Throughout the period from incorporation to 9 June 2009 Beazley plc was a shell company with no material revenues and assets and did not constitute a business as defined by IFRS 3 Business combinations.
Consequently, due to the relative values of both companies, the shareholders of Beazley group plc immediately before the share exchange acquired, in effect, 100 per cent of the share capital of Beazley plc on completion of the transaction.
In order to appropriately reflect the substance of the transaction outlined above, the new holding company has been accounted for using the reverse acquisition principles outlined in IFRS 3.
Consequently, Beazley group plc is deemed to be the acquirer for accounting purposes and the legal parent company, Beazley plc is treated as a subsidiary whose identifiable assets and liabilities are incorporated into the group at fair value.
Basis of presentation The consolidated financial statements are prepared using the historical cost convention except that financial investments and derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
All amounts presented are stated in US dollars and millions, unless stated otherwise.
The financial statements of Beazley plc have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The directors of the company have a reasonable expectation that the group and the company has adequate resources to continue in operational existance for the forseeable future.
Beazley plc is a company incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in the Republic of Ireland.
The annual financial statements of the group for the year ended 31 December 2010 comprise the parent company and its subsidiaries and the groups interest in associates.
Change in functional currency IAS 21 The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates describes functional currency as the currency of the primary economic environment in which entity operates.
Taking into consideration all the changes listed, Beazley plc has concluded that its functional currency and those of its principal operating entities has changed to US dollars: The groups regulatory capital is primarily held in US dollars.
On 5 January 2010 the group aligned its underwriting capital to US dollars.
Consequently our funds at Lloyds consisted of $491m and 152m, reflecting the currency mix of our underlying business in 2010.
The group has increased the scale of its US operation.
The group acquired Omaha Property and Casualty Inc. in 2005 which was renamed Beazley Insurance Company Inc. this entity is licensed to write insurance business in all 50 US states.
The US managing general agent, Beazley USA Services Inc. was established at the same time and over the past five years has grown from a staff of seven individuals in 2005 to 302 employees in 2010.
The number of office locations in the US has increased from two in 2005 to 11 in 2010.
The group has increased its locally written premiums in US dollars from $269.1m in 2008 to $370.7m in 2009.
This increase was largely driven by the acquisition of First State Management Inc. on 1 April 2009, which contributed $93.9m of premium in 2009.
A proportionate increase over time in the relative amount of US dollar premiums written.
US dollar premiums are then invested in US dollar denominated assets.
In 2005, the group wrote 70% of its premiums in US dollars, this has grown to 76% in 2009 partly attributable to the expansion of our locally underwritten US business.
A majority of costs are incurred in US dollars i. e. claims, brokerage and operating expenses.
In line with the point explained above on premium growth in US dollars, associated acquisition costs and claims are largely incurred in US dollars.
The group has grown its US dollar asset base.
The groups exposure to US dollars has grown considerably since 2004, when around 40% of the groups total assets were US dollar denominated, this has grown to around 80% at the end of 2009.
In Beazleys case the change in functional currency reflects the accumulation over time of those factors which are the main determinants of an entitys functional currency.
It is inevitably a matter of judgement as to when the weight of evidence is such that a change must be made.
Having considered the aggregate effect of all the factors listed above building up over time, the directors concluded in the board meeting on 24 March 2010 that this point was reached in the first quarter and accordingly, that the functional currency of Beazley plc and that of its principal operating entities had permanently changed to the US dollar.
This change was effected from 1 April 2010.
In accordance with IAS 21 this change has been accounted for prospectively from this date.
The directors concluded this point was reached in the first quarter of 2010.
Foreign exchange volatility is expected to be significantly reduced following the transition as the groups currency exposures are more closely matched to its functional currency.
Change in presentation currency From 1 January 2010 the group has changed its presentation currency to US dollars and hence all presentations and disclosures are in US Dollars, unless stated otherwise.
Comparative information has been restated in US dollars in accordance with the guidance defined in IAS 21.
The 2009 full year primary statements and associated notes along with the third statement of financial position as presented have been retranslated from pounds sterling to US dollars using the procedures outlined below: Assets and liabilities were translated into US dollars at closing rates of exchange.
Trading results were translated into US dollars at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of transaction or average rates where these are a suitable proxy.
Differences resulting from the retranslation on the opening net assets and the results for the year have been taken to reserves: The cumulative translation reserve was set to nil at 1 January 2005 i. e. the transition date to IFRS.
Share capital, share premiums and other reserves were translated at historic rates prevailing at the dates of transactions: and All exchange rates used were extracted from the groups underlying financial records.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 1 Statement of accounting policies continued In particular, information about significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are described in this statement of accounting policies and in notes 2 and 24 on risk management, insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets.
Consolidation a Subsidiary undertakings Subsidiary undertakings, which are those entities in which the group, directly or indirectly, has the power to exercise control over financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from their activities, have been consolidated.
They are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control ends.
The group has used the purchase method of accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Under purchase accounting, the cost of acquisition is measured as the fair value of assets given, shares issued or liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill.
The accounting treatment of acquisition expenses per IFRS 3 revised has changed, however as the group will apply the revised standard prospectively to all business combinations from 1 January 2010 and therefore there will be no impact on accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries made in prior periods.
Financial investments made by the parent company in subsidiary undertakings and associates are stated at cost and are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
Certain group subsidiaries underwrite as corporate members of Lloyds on syndicates managed by Beazley Furlonge Limited.
In view of the several liability of underwriting members at Lloyds for the transactions of syndicates in which they participate, only attributable shares of transactions, assets and liabilities of those syndicates are included in the financial statements.
b Associates Associates are those entities in which the group has power to exert significant influence but which it does not control.
Significant influence is generally presumed if the group has between 20% and 50% of voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under this method, the groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements in the associates net assets are adjusted against the cost of the investment.
When the groups share of losses equals or exceeds the carrying amount of the associate, the carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition for the losses is discontinued except to the extent that the group has incurred obligations in respect of the associate.
Equity accounting is discontinued when the group no longer has significant influence over the investment.
c Intercompany balances and transactions All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains or losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
Transactions and balances between the group and associates are not eliminated.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of the parent and the subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the relevant entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the groups presentation currency as described above.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using average exchange rates applicable to this period in which the group considers to be a reasonable approximation of the transaction rate.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from translation at the period end of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary items recorded at historical cost in foreign currencies are translated using the exchange rate on the date of the initial transaction.
c Group companies The results and financial position of the group companies that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate ruling at the statement of financial position date: income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates for the reporting period: and all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income as a separate component of equity.
On disposal of foreign operations cumulative exchange differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Insurance contracts Insurance contracts including inwards reinsurance contracts are defined as those containing significant insurance risk.
Insurance risk is considered significant if, and only if, an insured event could cause Beazley to pay significant additional benefits in any scenario, excluding scenarios that lack commercial substance.
Such contracts remain insurance contracts until all rights and obligations are extinguished or expire.
Financial guarantees provided by the parent company to subsidiaries are treated as insurance contracts under IFRS 4.
Beazley Annual Report 2010 87 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Statement of accounting policies continued Net earned premiums a Premiums Gross premiums written represent premiums on business commencing in the financial year together with adjustments to premiums written in previous accounting periods and estimates for premiums from contracts entered into during the course of the year.
Gross premiums written are stated before deduction of brokerage, taxes, duties levied on premiums and other deductions.
b Unearned premiums A provision for unearned premiums gross of reinsurance represents that part of the gross premiums written that is estimated will be earned in the following financial periods.
It is calculated using the daily pro-rata method where the premium is apportioned over the period of risk.
Deferred acquisition costs DAC Acquisition costs comprise brokerage, premium levy and staff-related costs of the underwriters acquiring new business and renewing existing contracts.
The proportion of acquisition costs in respect of unearned premiums is deferred at the reporting date and recognised in later periods when the related premiums are earned.
Claims These include the cost of claims and claims handling expenses paid during the period, together with the movements in provisions for outstanding claims, claims incurred but not reported IBNR and claims handling provisions.
The provision for claims comprises amounts set aside for claims advised and IBNR, including claims handling expenses.
The IBNR amount is based on estimates calculated using widely accepted actuarial techniques which are reviewed quarterly by the group actuary and annually by Beazleys independent syndicate reporting actuary.
The techniques generally use projections, based on past experience of the development of claims over time, to form a view on the likely ultimate claims to be experienced.
For more recent underwriting years, regard is given to the variations in the business portfolio accepted and the underlying terms and conditions.
Thus, the critical assumptions used when estimating provisions are that past experience is a reasonable predictor of likely future claims development and that the rating and business portfolio assumptions are a fair reflection of the likely level of ultimate claims to be incurred for the more recent years.
Liability adequacy testing At each reporting date, liability adequacy tests are performed to ensure the adequacy of the claims liabilities net of DAC and unearned premium reserves.
In performing these tests, current best estimates of future contractual cash flows, claims handling and administration expenses as well as investment income from the assets backing such liabilities are used.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the income statement initially by writing off DAC and by subsequently establishing a provision for losses arising from liability adequacy tests unexpired risk provision.
Ceded reinsurance These are contracts entered into by the group with reinsurers under which the group is compensated for losses on contracts issued by the group and that meet the definition of an insurance contract.
Insurance contracts entered into by the group under which the contract holder is another insurer inwards reinsurance are included with insurance contracts.
Any benefits to which the group is entitled under its reinsurance contracts held are recognised as reinsurance assets.
These assets consist of balances due from reinsurers and include reinsurers share of provisions for claims.
These balances are based on calculated amounts of outstanding claims and projections for IBNR, net of estimated irrecoverable amounts having regard to the reinsurance programme in place for the class of business, the claims experience for the period and the current security rating of the reinsurer involved.
Reinsurance liabilities are primarily premiums payable for reinsurance contracts and are recognised as an expense when due.
The group assesses its reinsurance assets for impairment.
If there is objective evidence of impairment, then the carrying amount is reduced to its recoverable amount and the impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Revenue Revenue consists of net earned premium, net investment income, profit commissions earned and managing agents fees.
Managing agents fees are recognised as the services are provided.
Profit commissions are recognised as profit is earned.
Dividends paid Dividend distribution to the shareholders of the group is recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid as a first interim dividend or is a second interim dividend approved by the groups shareholders at the groups annual general meeting.
Plant and equipment All plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the assets to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows: Fixtures and fittings Three to ten years Computer equipment Three years These assets residual value and useful lives are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 1 Statement of accounting policies continued The carrying values of plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
If any such condition exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of impairment and the difference is charged to the income statement.
Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The accounting treatment of goodwill per IFRS 3 revised has changed, however the group decided to apply the revised standard prospectively to all business combinations from 1 January 2010 and therefore there will be no impact on accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries made in prior periods.
Goodwill has an indefinite life and is annually tested for impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to each cash generating unit being the groups operating segments for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill is impaired when the net present value of the forecast future cash flows is insufficient to support its carrying value.
On transition to IFRS at 1 January 2004, any goodwill previously amortised or written off was not reinstated.
b Syndicate capacity The syndicate capacity represents the cost of purchasing the groups participation in the combined syndicates.
The capacity is capitalised at cost in the statement of financial position.
It has an indefinite useful life and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment.
It is annually tested for impairment by reference to the expected future profit streams to be earned by those syndicates in which the group participates, namely 2623, 3622 and 3623, and provision is made for any impairment.
c Licences Licences have an indefinite useful life and are initially recorded at fair value.
Licences are annually tested for impairment and provision is made for any impairment when the net present value of future cash flows is less than the carrying value.
d IT development costs Costs that are directly associated with the development of identifiable and unique software products and that are anticipated to generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Costs include external consultants fees, certain qualifying internal staff costs and other costs incurred to develop software programs.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful life three years on a straight line basis.
Other non-qualifying costs are expensed as incurred.
Financial instruments Financial instruments are recognised in the statement of financial position at such time that the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets expire, or where the financial assets have been transferred, together with substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are derecognised if the groups obligations specified in the contract expire, are discharged or cancelled.
Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, which is the date the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial assets On acquisition of a financial asset, the group is required to classify the asset into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, held to maturity and available for sale.
The group does not make use of the held to maturity and available for sale classifications.
Financial assets at fair value through income statement This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through the income statement at inception.
Trading assets are those assets which are acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term, or which are held as part of a portfolio in which there is evidence of short-term profit taking or if it is designated so by management.
Derivatives are classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments.
All financial investments are designated as fair value through the income statement upon initial recognition because they are managed and their performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
Information about these financial assets is provided internally on a fair value basis to the groups key management.
The groups investment strategy is to invest and evaluate their performance with reference to their fair values.
Fair value measurement Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction on the measurement date.
When available, the group measures the fair value of an instrument using quoted prices in an active market for that instrument.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available and represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
Beazley Annual Report 2010 89 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Statement of accounting policies continued If a market for a financial instrument is not active, the group establishes fair value using a valuation technique.
Valuation techniques include using recent arms length transactions between knowledgeable, willing parties if available, reference to the current fair value of other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analyses and option pricing models.
The chosen valuation technique makes maximum use of market inputs, relies as little as possible on estimates specific to the group, incorporates all factors that market participants would consider in setting a price, and is consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial instruments.
Inputs to valuation techniques reasonably represent market expectations and measures of the risk-return factors inherent in the financial instrument.
The group calibrates valuation techniques and tests them for validity using prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument or based on other available observable market data.
The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is the transaction price, i. e. the fair value of the consideration given or received, unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument i. e. without modification or repackaging or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets.
When transaction price provides the best evidence of fair value at initial recognition, the financial instrument is initially measured at the transaction price and any difference between this price and the value initially obtained from a valuation model is subsequently recognised in profit or loss depending on the individual facts and circumstances of the transaction but not later than when the valuation is supported wholly by observable market data or the transaction is closed out.
Assets and long positions are measured at a bid price: liabilities and short positions are measured at an asking price.
Where the group has positions with offsetting risks, mid-market prices are used to measure the offsetting risk positions and a bid or asking price adjustment is applied only to the net open position as appropriate.
Fair values reflect the credit risk of the instrument and include adjustments to take account of the credit risk of the group entity and counterparty where appropriate.
Fair value estimates obtained from models are adjusted for any other factors, such as liquidity risk or model uncertainties, to the extent that the group believes a third-party market participant would take them into account in pricing a transaction.
Upon initial recognition, attributable transaction costs relating to financial instruments at fair value through the income statement are recognised in the income statement when incurred.
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement are measured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in the income statement.
Net changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through the income statement exclude interest and dividend income.
Hedge funds The group participates in a number of hedge funds and related financial instruments for which there are no available quoted market prices.
The valuation of these hedge funds is based on fair value techniques as described above.
The fair value of our hedge fund portfolio is calculated by reference to the underlying net asset values NAVs of each of the individual funds.
Consideration is also given in valuing these funds to any restriction applied to distributions, the existence of side pocket provisions, and the timing of the latest available valuations.
Insurance receivables and payables Insurance receivables and payables are recognised when due.
These include amounts due to and from agents, brokers and insurance contract holders.
Insurance receivables are classified as loans and receivables as they are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market.
Insurance receivables are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairments.
Insurance payables are stated at amortised cost.
Other receivables Other receivables principally consist of prepayments, accrued income and sundry debtors and are carried at amortised cost.
Investment income Investment income consists of dividends, interest, realised and unrealised gains and losses and foreign exchange gains and losses on financial assets at fair value through the income statement.
Dividends on equity securities are recorded as revenue on the ex-dividend date.
Interest is recognised on an accruals basis for financial assets at fair value through the income statement.
The realised gains or losses on disposal of an investment is the difference between the proceeds and the original cost of the investment.
Unrealised investment gains and losses represent the difference between the carrying value at the reporting date, and the carrying value at the previous period end or purchase value during the period.
Borrowings Borrowings are initially recorded at fair value less transaction costs incurred.
Subsequently borrowings are stated at amortised cost and interest is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Finance costs comprise interest payable, fees paid for the arrangement of debt and letter of credit facility and commissions charged for the utilisation of letters of credit.
These costs are recognised in the income statements using the effective interest method.
Other payables Other payables are stated at amortised cost.
Hedge accounting and derivative financial instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting fair value gains or losses depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, recent market transactions, and valuation techniques which include discounted cash flow models.
All derivatives are carried as assets when fair value is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 1 Statement of accounting policies continued The best evidence of fair value of a derivative at initial recognition is the transaction price.
The group designates certain derivatives as cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
The group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are being used in hedging transactions are expected to be and have been highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
a Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within net fair value gains losses on derivative financial instruments.
If the derivative expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer meets the criteria for cash flow hedge accounting, or the designation is revoked, then hedge accounting is discontinued if the forecast transaction is still expected to occur the cumulative amount recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income statement when the forecast transaction affects the income statement.
If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, then the balance in other comprehensive income is reclassified immediately to the income statement.
b Fair value hedges When a derivative is designated as a hedge of the change in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or a firm commitment, changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognised immediately in the income statement together with the changes in the fair value of the hedged item that are attributable to the hedged risk.
If the derivative expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer meets the criteria for fair value hedge accounting, or the designation is revoked, hedge accounting is discontinued.
Any adjustment up to that point, to a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used, is amortised to profit or loss as part of the recalculated effective interest rate of the item over its remaining life.
c Net investment hedges Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented within equity in other reserves: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within net fair value gains losses on financial investments through the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
Impairment of financial assets The group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets measured at amortised cost is impaired.
A financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the assets and that event has an impact on the estimated cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
If there is objective evidence that impairment exists, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, deposits held at call with banks, bank overdrafts and other short-term highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
Operating leases Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made for operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Employee benefits a Pension obligations The group operates a defined benefit pension plan that is now closed to future service accruals.
The scheme is generally funded by payments from the group taking account of the recommendations of an independent qualified actuary.
All employees now participate in a defined contribution pension funded by the group.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors like age, years of service and compensation.
The pension costs are assessed using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method the costs of providing pensions are charged to the income statement so as to spread the regular costs over the service lives of employees in accordance with the advice of the qualified actuary, who values the plans annually.
The pension obligation is measured at present value of the estimated future net cash flows and is stated net of plan assets.
Actuarial gains or losses arising subsequent to 1 January 2004 are accounted for using the corridor method.
Actuarial gains or losses that exceed 10 per cent of the greater of the fair value of the plan assets or the present value of the gross defined benefit obligations in the scheme are recognised in the income statement over the average remaining working lives of employees participating in the scheme.
Beazley Annual Report 2010 91 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Statement of accounting policies continued For the defined contribution plan, the group pays contributions to a privately administered pension plan.
Once the contributions have been paid, the group has no further obligations.
The groups contributions are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
b Share-based compensation The group offers option plans over Beazley plcs ordinary shares to certain employees, including the SAYE scheme, details of which are included in the directors remuneration report.
The group accounts for share compensation plans that were granted after 7 November 2002.
The cost of providing share-based compensation is based on the fair value of the share options at grant date, which is recognised in the income statement over the vesting period of the share options and a corresponding entry is recognised in reserves.
The fair value of the share options is determined using the Black Scholes method.
When the options are exercised, the proceeds received, net of any transaction costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium.
Income taxes Income tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised respectively in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the year end reporting date and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of prior periods.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised in the statement of financial position to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax available to shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares such as share options granted to employees.
The shares held in the employee share options plan ESOP are excluded from both the calculations, until such time as they vest unconditionally with the employees.
Provisions and contingencies Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
Where the group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Contingent liabilities are present obligations that are not recognised because it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to meet the liabilities or if the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.
2 Risk management The group has identified the risks arising from its activities and has established policies and procedures to manage these items in accordance with its risk appetite.
The group categorises its risks into eight areas: insurance, asset or market risk, operational, credit, group, regulatory and legal, liquidity and strategic risk market.
The sections below outline the groups risk appetite and explain how it defines and manages each category of risk.
2.1 Insurance risk The groups insurance business assumes the risk of loss from persons or organisations that are directly exposed to an underlying loss.
Insurance risk arises from this risk transfer due to inherent uncertainties about the occurrence, amount and timing of insurance liabilities.
The four key components of insurance risk are underwriting, reinsurance, claims management and reserving.
Each element is considered below.
a Underwriting risk Underwriting risk comprises four elements that apply to all insurance products offered by the group: Cycle risk the risk that business is written without full knowledge as to the in adequacy of rates, terms and conditions: Event risk the risk that individual risk losses or catastrophes lead to claims that are higher than anticipated in plans and pricing: Pricing risk the risk that the level of expected loss is understated in the pricing process: and Expense risk the risk that the allowance for expenses and inflation in pricing is inadequate.
The groups underwriting strategy is to seek a diverse and balanced portfolio of risks in order to limit the variability of outcomes.
This is achieved by accepting a spread of business over time, segmented between different products, geography and size.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 2 Risk management continued The annual business plans for each underwriting team reflect the groups underwriting strategy, and set out the classes of business, the territories in which business is to be written and the industry sectors to which the group is prepared to expose itself.
These plans are approved by the board and monitored by the monthly underwriting committee.
Our underwriters calculate premiums for risks written based on a range of criteria tailored specifically to each individual risk.
These factors include but are not limited to the financial exposure, loss history, risk characteristics, limits, deductibles, terms and conditions and acquisition expenses.
The group also recognises that insurance events are, by their nature, random, and the actual number and size of events during any one year may vary from those estimated using established statistical techniques.
To address this, the group sets out the exposure that it is prepared to accept in certain territories to a range of events such as natural catastrophes and specific scenarios which may result in large industry losses.
This is monitored through regular calculation of realistic disaster scenarios RDS.
The aggregate position is monitored at the time of underwriting a risk, and reports are regularly produced to highlight the key aggregations to which the group is exposed.
The group uses a number of modelling tools to monitor its exposures against the risk appetite set and to simulate catastrophe losses in order to measure the effectiveness of its reinsurance programmes.
Stress and scenario tests are also run using these models.
The range of scenarios considered include natural catastrophes, marine, liability, political, terrorism and war events.
One of the largest types of event exposure relates to natural catastrophe events such as windstorm or earthquake.
Where possible the group measures geographic accumulations and uses its knowledge of the business, historical loss behaviour and commercial catastrophe modelling software to assess the expected range of losses at different return periods.
Upon application of the reinsurance coverage purchased, the key gross and net exposures are calculated on the basis of extreme events at a range of return periods.
The groups high level catastrophe risk appetite is set by the board and the business plans of each team are determined within these parameters.
The board may adjust these limits over time as conditions change.
Currently, the group operates to a catastrophe risk appetite for a probabilistic 1 in 250 year US event of US$510m net of reinsurance.
Lloyds has also defined its own specific set of RDS events for which all syndicates with relevant exposures must report.
Of these the three largest events which impact Beazley are: Unaudited 2010 2009 Modelled PML Modelled PML Modelled PML Modelled PML before after before after reinsurance reinsurance reinsurance reinsurance Lloyds prescribed natural catastrophe event US$m US$m US$m US$m San Francisco quake US$78bn, 2009: US$74bn 712.0 265.7 695.0 239.8 Gulf of Mexico windstorm US$113bn, 2009: US$113bn 557.3 303.8 456.0 236.5 Florida Pinellas windstorm US$125bn, 2009: US$119bn 532.2 277.0 493.3 237.3 The net exposure of the group to each of these modelled events at a given point in time is a function of assumptions made about how, where and the magnitude of the event that occurs, the amount of business written that is exposed to each event and the reinsurance arrangements in place.
To manage underwriting exposures, the group has developed limits of authority and business plans which are binding upon all staff authorised to underwrite and are specific to underwriters, classes of business and industry.
In 2010, the normal maximum gross probable maximum loss PML line that any one underwriter could commit the managed syndicates to was US$100m.
In most cases, maximum lines for classes of business were much lower than this.
These authority limits are enforced through a comprehensive sign-off process for underwriting transactions including dual sign-off for all line underwriters and peer review for all risks exceeding individual underwriters authority limits.
Exception reports are also run regularly to monitor compliance.
All underwriters also have a right to refuse renewal or change the terms and conditions of insurance contracts upon renewal.
Rate monitoring details, including limits, deductibles, exposures, terms and conditions and risk characteristics are also captured and the results are combined to monitor the rating environment for each class of business.
Binding Authority contracts A proportion of the groups insurance risks are transacted by third parties under delegated underwriting authorities.
Each third party is thoroughly vetted by our coverholder approval group before it can bind risks, and is subject to rigorous monitoring to maintain underwriting quality and confirm ongoing compliance with contractual guidelines.
Beazley Annual Report 2010 93 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued Operating Divisions In 2010, the groups business consisted of six operating divisions.
The following table provides a breakdown of gross written premiums written by division, and also provides a geographical split based on placement of risk.
UK US 2010 Lloyds Non Lloyds Total Life, accident & health 4% 4% Marine 15% 15% Political risks & contingency 6% 6% Property 20% 1% 21% Reinsurance 10% 10% Specialty lines 35% 9% 44% Total 90% 10% 100% UK US 2009 Lloyds Non Lloyds Total Life, accident & health 4% 4% Marine 15% 15% Political risks & contingency 7% 7% Property 21% 1% 22% Reinsurance 8% 8% Specialty lines 35% 9% 44% Total 90% 10% 100% b Reinsurance risk Reinsurance risk to the group arises where reinsurance contracts put in place to reduce gross insurance risk do not perform as anticipated, result in coverage disputes or prove inadequate in terms of the vertical or horizontal limits purchased.
Failure of a reinsurer to pay a valid claim is considered a credit risk which is detailed separately below.
The groups reinsurance programmes complement the underwriting team business plans and seek to protect group capital from an adverse volume or volatility of claims on both a per risk and per event basis.
In some cases the group deems it more economic to hold capital than purchase reinsurance.
These decisions are regularly reviewed as an integral part of the business planning and performance monitoring process.
The reinsurance security committee RSC examines and approves all reinsurers to ensure that they possess suitable security.
The groups ceded reinsurance team ensures that these guidelines are followed, undertakes the administration of reinsurance contracts, monitors and instigates our responses to any erosion of the reinsurance programmes.
c Claims management risk Claims management risk may arise within the group in the event of inaccurate or incomplete case reserves and claims settlements, poor service quality or excessive claims handling costs.
These risks may damage the group brand and undermine its ability to win and retain business or incur punitive damages.
These risks can occur at any stage of the claims life-cycle.
The groups claims teams are focused on delivering quality, reliability and speed of service to both internal and external clients.
Their aim is to adjust and process claims in a fair, efficient and timely manner, in accordance with the policys terms and conditions, the regulatory environment, and the business broader interests.
Prompt and accurate case reserves are set for all known claims liabilities, including provisions for expenses.
d Reserving and ultimate reserves risk Reserving and ultimate reserves risk occurs within the group where established insurance liabilities are insufficient through inaccurate forecasting, or where there is inadequate allowance for expenses and reinsurance bad debts in provisions.
To manage reserving and ultimate reserves risk, our actuarial team uses a range of recognised techniques to project gross premiums written, monitor claims development patterns and stress test ultimate insurance liability balances.
An external independent actuary also performs an annual review to produce a statement of actuarial opinion for reporting entities within the group.
The objective of the groups reserving policy is to produce accurate and reliable estimates that are consistent over time and across classes of business.
The estimates of gross premiums written and claims prepared by the actuarial department are used through a formal quarterly peer review process to independently test the integrity of the estimates produced by the underwriting teams for each class of business.
These meetings are attended by senior management, senior underwriters, actuarial, claims, and finance representatives.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 2 Risk management continued 2.2 Credit risk Credit risk arises where counterparties fail to meet their financial obligations in full as they fall due.
The primary sources of credit risk for the group are: Reinsurers whereby reinsurers may fail to pay valid claims against a reinsurance contract held by the group: Brokers and intermediaries whereby counterparties fail to pass on premiums or claims collected or paid on behalf of the group: and Investments whereby issuer default results in the group losing all or part of the value of a financial instrument.
The groups core business is to accept significant insurance risk and the appetite for other risks is low.
This protects the groups capital from erosion so that it can meet its insurance liabilities.
To assist in the understanding of credit risks, A. M. Best, Moodys and Standard & Poors S&P ratings are used.
These ratings have been categorised below as used for Lloyds reporting: A. M. Best Moodys S&P Tier 1 A to AAaa to A3 AAA to ATier 2 B to BBaa1 to Ba3 BBB to BBTier 3 C to CB1 to Caa B to CCC Tier 4 D, E, F, S Ca to C R, U, S 3 The following tables summarise the groups concentrations of credit risk: Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Tier 4 Unrated Total 31 December 2010 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial investments 2,129.5 15.0 433.1 2,577.6 Insurance receivables 527.1 527.1 Reinsurance assets 1,034.9 1,034.9 Other receivables 33.9 33.9 Cash and cash equivalents 1,264.7 1,264.7 Total 4,463.0 15.0 960.2 5,438.2 Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Tier 4 Unrated Total 31 December 2009 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial investments 2,574.4 5.3 268.6 2,848.3 Derivative financial instruments 9.3 9.3 Insurance receivables 498.0 498.0 Reinsurance assets 1,156.1 1,156.1 Other receivables 25.6 25.6 Cash and cash equivalents 813.4 813.4 Total 4,578.8 5.3 766.6 5,350.7 The carrying amount of financial assets at the reporting date represents the maximum credit exposure.
An analysis of the overall credit risk exposure indicates that the group has reinsurance assets that are impaired at the reporting date.
The total impairment provision made in respect of these assets at 31 December 2010 totals $17.3m 2009: $15.8m.
Insurance receivables, financial assets and all other asset balances held by the group have not been impaired, based on all evidence available, and no impairment provision has been recognised in respect of these assets.
Insurance receivables in respect of coverholder business are credit controlled by third party managers.
We monitor third party coverholders performance and their financial processes through the groups coverholder management team.
These assets have been individually impaired after considering information such as the occurrence of significant changes in the counterpartys financial position, pattern of historical payment information and disputes with counterparties.
Beazley Annual Report 2010 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued The group has insurance receivables and reinsurance assets that are past due but not impaired at the reporting date.
An aged analysis of insurance receivables and reinsurance assets that are past due but not impaired is presented below: Greater than Up to 30 days 30 60 days 60 90 days 90 days past due past due past due past due Total 31 December 2010 $m $m $m $m $m Insurance receivables 10.9 1.9 1.9 2.8 17.5 Reinsurance assets 2.7 4.6 3.6 13.7 24.6 Greater than Up to 30 days 30 60 days 60 90 days 90 days past due past due past due past due Total 31 December 2009 $m $m $m $m $m Insurance receivables 8.1 2.4 0.6 2.6 13.7 Reinsurance assets 2.8 3.4 4.7 11.8 22.7 The group has developed processes to formally examine all reinsurers before entering into new business arrangements.
New reinsurers are approved by the RSC, which also reviews arrangements with all existing reinsurers at least annually.
Vulnerable or slow-paying reinsurers are examined more frequently.
An approval system also exists for all new brokers, and broker performance is carefully monitored.
Regular exception reports highlight trading with non-approved brokers, and the groups credit control function frequently assesses the ageing and collectability of debtor balances.
Any large, aged items are prioritised and where collection is outsourced, incentives are in place to support these priorities.
The investments committee has established comprehensive guidelines for the groups investment managers regarding the type, duration and quality of investments acceptable to the group.
The performance of investment managers is regularly reviewed to confirm adherence to these guidelines.
2.3 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk arises where cash may not be available to pay obligations when due at a reasonable cost.
The group is exposed to daily calls on its available cash resources, principally from claims arising from its insurance business.
In the majority of the cases, these claims are settled from the premiums received.
The groups approach is to manage its liquidity position so that it can reasonably survive a significant individual or market loss event details of the groups exposure to realistic disaster scenarios RDS are provided on page 93.
This means that the group maintains sufficient liquid assets, or assets that can be translated into liquid assets at short notice and without any significant capital loss, to meet expected cash flow requirements.
These liquid funds are regularly monitored using cash flow forecasting to ensure that surplus funds are invested to achieve a higher rate of return.
The group also makes use of loan facilities and borrowings, details of which can be found in note 25.
Further information on the groups capital resources is contained on pages 41 and 42.
The sources and uses of funds table on page 42 shows the level of surplus capital that the group currently holds.
This is the surplus over expected working capital and regulatory capital requirements and represents a buffer that could be used to meet unforeseen costs or take advantage of new opportunities.
The following is an analysis by business segment of the estimated timing of the net cash flows based on the net claims liabilities balance held at 31 December 2010: Weighted average term Within Greater than to settlement 31 December 2010 1 year 2-3 years 4-5 years 5 years Total years Life, accident & health 18.4 8.6 1.4 0.3 28.7 1.1 Marine 91.6 87.9 26.9 2.1 208.5 1.6 Political risks & contingency 34.9 44.2 20.1 1.8 101.0 1.9 Property 125.6 87.0 16.8 6.8 236.2 1.4 Reinsurance 88.2 80.1 23.3 3.0 194.6 1.5 Specialty lines 376.7 676.7 406.0 170.4 1,629.8 2.5 Net insurance liabilities 735.4 984.5 494.5 184.4 2,398.8 96 www.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 2 Risk management continued Weighted average term Within Greater than to settlement 31 December 2009 1 year 2-3 years 4-5 years 5 years Total years Life, accident & health 9.9 4.6 0.6 0.2 15.3 1.1 Marine 92.9 85.6 28.7 2.1 209.3 1.6 Political risks & contingency 47.3 49.1 29.5 2.6 128.5 1.9 Property 125.1 84.5 16.3 6.4 232.3 1.4 Reinsurance 68.5 65.8 19.8 2.9 157.0 1.5 Specialty lines 333.0 617.6 391.5 166.3 1,508.4 2.6 Net insurance liabilities 676.7 907.2 486.4 180.5 2,250.8 The following table is an analysis of the net cash flows based on all the liabilities held at 31 December 2010: Within Greater than 31 December 2010 1 year 2-3 years 4-5 years 5 years Total Net insurance liabilities 735.4 984.5 494.5 184.4 2,398.8 Borrowings 268.2 268.2 Other payables 285.4 285.4 Deferred tax liability 91.0 91.0 Within Greater than 31 December 2009 1 year 2-3 years 4-5 years 5 years Total Net insurance liabilities 676.7 907.2 486.4 180.5 2,250.8 Borrowings 278.7 278.7 Other payables 289.3 289.3 Deferred tax liability 35.1 35.1 Current income tax liabilities 21.3 21.3 The next two tables summarise the carrying amount at reporting date of financial instruments analysed by maturity date.
Further details are provided in notes 25 and 26.
2.4 Market risk Market risk arises where the value of assets and liabilities changes as a result of movements in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and market prices.
Foreign exchange risk As mentioned in note 1 to the financial statements on accounting policies, the group has changed the functional currency to the US dollar for Beazley plc and its main trading entities and the presentation currency in which it now reports its consolidated results to the US dollar.
The effect of this on foreign exchange risk is that the group is now exposed to any non-dollar transactions and net assets, whereas previously exposures existed in respect of non-sterling transactions and net assets.
Beazley Annual Report 2010 97 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued Given that the rationale for the change in functional and presentation currencies was that US dollars represent the most economically significant currency to the group, the change to reporting in this currency has thus generally reduced the overall risk profile arising from foreign exchange movements.
However foreign exchange risk is still actively managed as described below.
The group is exposed to changes in the value of assets and liabilities due to movements in foreign exchange rates.
The group deals in four main currencies, US dollars, UK sterling, Canadian dollars and Euros.
Transactions in all other currencies are converted to US dollars on initial recognition and revalued at the reporting date.
In 2010, the group managed its foreign exchange risk by periodically assessing its non-dollar exposures and hedging these to a tolerable level while targeting net assets to be entirely US dollar denominated.
On a forward looking basis an assessment is made of expected future exposure development and appropriate currency trades put in place to reduce risk.
With effect from January 2010 Beazley took the decision to match the groups underwriting capital by currency to the principal underlying currencies of its written premiums.
This will ensure that the groups capital required to underwrite business is not materially affected by any future movements in exchange rates.
To achieve this, the group has increased the US dollar component of its capital base Funds at Lloyds by US$492.7m since the start of 2010 with an equivalent decrease in the sterling component.
The group also has investment in foreign subsidiaries with functional currencies that are different from the presentation currency.
This gives rise to a currency translation exposure to UK sterling, Hong Kong dollars and Singapore dollars, although these exposures are minimal.
Sensitivity analysis Fluctuations in the groups trading currencies against the US dollar would result in a change to net asset value.
The table below gives an indication of the impact on net assets of a % change in relative strength of US dollar against the value of Sterling, Canadian dollar and Euro, simultaneously.
The analysis is based on the current information available and our assumptions in performing this analysis are: the analysis includes an estimate of the impact on our foreign borrowings and cross currency swaps: and the impact of foreign exchange on non-monetary items will be nil.
Impact on profit after tax for the year Impact on net assets 2010 2010 Change in exchange rate of UK sterling, Canadian dollar and Euro relative to US dollar $m $m Dollar weakens 30% against other currencies 21.0 21.0 Dollar weakens 20% against other currencies 14.0 14.0 Dollar weakens 10% against other currencies 7.0 7.0 Dollar strengthens 10% against other currencies 7.0 7.0 Dollar strengthens 20% against other currencies 14.0 14.0 Dollar strengthens 30% against other currencies 21.0 21.0 The analysis above is presented for the impact on 2010 results only.
Since the underlying functional currencies of the principal operating entities was sterling until 1 April 2010, the analysis would not be relevant for 2009 results and is therefore not presented.
Interest rate risk Some of the groups financial instruments, including financial investments, cash and cash equivalents, and borrowings are exposed to movements in market interest rates.
The group manages interest rate risk by primarily investing in short duration financial investments and cash and cash equivalents.
The investment committee monitors the duration of these assets on a regular basis.
The following table shows the average duration at the reporting date of the financial instruments.
Duration is a commonly used measure of volatility and we believe gives a better indication than maturity of the likely sensitivity of our portfolio to changes in interest rates.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 2 Risk management continued Duration 1 yr 1-2 yrs 2-3 yrs 3-4 yrs 4-5 yrs 5-10 yrs 10 yrs Total 31 December 2010 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Debt securities 1,380.6 207.7 185.3 226.9 87.1 56.9 2,144.5 Cash and cash equivalents 1,264.7 1,264.7 Derivative financial instruments Borrowings 250.2 18.0 268.2 Total 2,645.3 207.7 185.3 226.9 87.1 193.3 18.0 3,141.0 1 yr 1-2 yrs 2-3 yrs 3-4 yrs 4-5 yrs 5-10 yrs 10 yrs Total 31 December 2009 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Debt securities 1,611.2 703.4 209.0 14.7 41.2 2,579.5 Cash and cash equivalents 813.4 813.4 Derivative financial instruments 9.3 9.3 Borrowings 260.7 18.0 278.7 Total 2,424.6 703.4 209.0 14.7 41.2 251.4 18.0 3,123.5 Sensitivity analysis The group holds financial assets and liabilities that are exposed to interest rate risk.
Changes in interest yields, with all other variables constant, would result in changes in the capital value of debt securities and a change in value of borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
This will affect reported profits and net assets as indicated in the below table: Impact on profit after income tax for the year Impact on net assets 2010 2009 2010 2009 $m $m $m $m Shift in yield basis points 150 basis point increase 23.7 27.5 23.7 27.5 100 basis point increase 15.7 18.4 15.7 18.4 50 basis point increase 8.0 9.2 8.0 9.2 50 basis point decrease 8.0 9.2 8.0 9.2 100 basis point decrease 15.7 18.4 15.7 18.4 Price risk Debt securities and hedge funds that are recognised on the statement of financial position at their fair value are susceptible to losses due to adverse changes in prices.
This is referred to as price risk.
Investments are made in debt securities, equities and hedge funds depending on the groups appetite for risk.
These investments are well diversified with high quality, liquid securities.
The investment committee has established comprehensive guidelines with investment managers setting out maximum investment limits, diversification across industries and concentrations in any one industry or company.
Listed investments are recognised on the statement of financial position at quoted bid price.
If the market for the investment is not considered to be active, then the group establishes fair value using valuation techniques.
This includes using recent arms length market transactions, reference to current fair value of other investments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow models and other valuation techniques that are commonly used by market participants.
Impact on profit after income tax for the year Impact on net assets 2010 2009 2010 2009 $m $m $m $m Change in fair value of hedge fund portfolios 30% increase in fair value 106.1 64.4 106.1 64.4 20% increase in fair value 70.7 43.0 70.7 43.0 10% increase in fair value 35.4 21.5 35.4 21.5 10% decrease in fair value 35.4 21.5 35.4 21.5 20% decrease in fair value 70.7 43.0 70.7 43.0 30% decrease in fair value 106.1 64.4 106.1 64.4 Beazley Annual Report 2010 99 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued 2.5 Operational risk Operational risk arises from the risk of losses due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, service providers or from external events.
There are a number of business activities for which the group uses the services of a third party company, such as investment management, data entry and credit control.
These service providers are selected against rigorous criteria and formal service level agreements are in place, and regularly monitored and reviewed.
The group also recognises that it is necessary for people, systems and infrastructure to be available to support our operations.
Therefore we have taken significant steps to mitigate the impact of business interruption which could follow a variety of events, including the loss of key individuals and facilities.
We operate a formal disaster recovery plan which, in the event of an incident, allows the group to move critical operations to an alternative location within 24 hours.
The group actively manages operational risks and minimises them where appropriate.
This is achieved by implementing and communicating guidelines to staff and other third parties.
The group also regularly monitors the performance of its controls and adherence to these guidelines through the risk management reporting process.
Key components of the groups operational control environment include: ICA modelling of operational risk exposure and scenario testing: Management review of activities: Documentation of policies and procedures: Preventative and detective controls within key processes: Contingency planning: and Other systems controls.
2.6 Group risk Group risk occurs where business units fail to consider the impact of their activities on other parts of the group, as well as the risks arising from these activities.
There are three main components of group risk which are explained below.
Reputation Reputation risk is the risk of negative publicity as a result of the groups contractual arrangements, customers, products, services and other activities.
Key sources of reputation risk include operation of a Lloyds franchise, interaction with capital markets since the groups IPO during 2002, and reliance upon the Beazley brand in the US, Europe and Asia.
The groups preference is to minimise reputation risks but where it is not possible or beneficial to avoid them, we seek to minimise their frequency and severity by management through public relations and communication channels.
Management stretch Management stretch is the risk that business growth might result in an insufficient or overly complicated management team structure, thereby undermining accountability and control within the group.
As the group expands its worldwide business in the UK, US, Europe and Asia, management stretch may make the identification, analysis and control of group risks more complex.
On a day-to-day basis, the groups management structure encourages organisational flexibility and adaptability, while ensuring that activities are appropriately coordinated and controlled.
By focusing on the needs of their customers and demonstrating both progressive and responsive abilities, staff, management and outsourced service providers are expected to excel in service and quality.
Individuals and teams are also expected to transact their activities in an open and transparent way.
These behavioral expectations reaffirm low group risk tolerance by aligning interests to ensure that routine activities, projects and other initiatives are implemented to benefit and protect resources of both local business segments and the group as a whole.
Capital management The group follows a risk based approach to determine the amount of capital required to support its activities.
Recognised stochastic modelling techniques are used to measure risk exposures, and capital to support business activities is allocated according to risk profile.
Stress and scenario analysis is regularly performed and the results are documented and reconciled to the boards risk appetite where necessary.
The group has several requirements for capital, including: 1 To support underwriting at Lloyds through the syndicates in which it participates being 2623, 3623 and 3622.
This is based on the groups own individual capital assessment.
This may be provided in the form of either the groups cash and investments or debt facilities: 2 To support underwriting in Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. in the US: and 3 To make acquisitions, such as First State Management Group, Inc in 2009, of insurance companies or MGAs whose strategic goals are aligned with our own.
The capital structure section of the financial review along with the ICA and Solvency II sections on pages 42 to 43 provide further background to the groups management of capital.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 2 Risk management continued 2.7 Strategic risk This is the risk that the groups strategy is inappropriate or that the group is unable to implement its strategy.
There is no tolerance for any breach of guidance issued by the board, and where events supersede the group strategic plan this is escalated at the earliest opportunity through the groups monitoring tools and governance structure.
2.8 Regulatory and legal risk Regulatory and legal risk is the risk arising from not complying with regulatory and legal requirements.
The operations of the group are subject to legal and regulatory requirements within the jurisdictions in which it operates and the groups compliance function is responsible for ensuring that these requirements are adhered to.
3 Segmental analysis a Reporting segments Segment information is presented in respect of reportable segments.
This is based on the groups management and internal reporting structures and represents the level at which financial information is reported to the Board, being the chief operating decision maker as defined in IFRS 8.
During 2010 the decision was taken to separately report the life, accident & health division due to its growth and significant contribution to the groups result.
This segment was previously disclosed as part of reinsurance, however for consistency all prior year comparatives for the life, accident and health division have been removed from the reinsurance division and separately disclosed.
The operating segments are based upon the different types of insurance risk underwritten by the group as described below: Life, accident & health This segment underwrites life, personal accident and sports risks.
Marine This segment underwrites a broad spectrum of marine classes including hull, energy, cargo & specie and war risks.
Political risks & contingency This segment underwrites terrorism, political violence, expropriation and credit risks as well as contingency and risks associated with contract frustration.
Property The property segment underwrites commercial, high-value homeowners and engineering property insurance on a worldwide basis.
Reinsurance This division specialises in writing property catastrophe, property per risk, aggregate excess of loss and pro-rata business.
Specialty lines This segment mainly underwrites professional lines, employment practices liability, specialty liability, directors and officers liability and healthcare.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
The reporting segments do not cross-sell business between each other.
There are no individual policy holders that comprise greater than ten percent of the groups total gross premiums written.
UK earned premium in the analysis below represents all risks placed at Lloyds and US earned premium represents all risks placed at the groups US insurance company, Beazley Insurance Company Inc. An analysis of earned premium split geographically by where the premium is sourced and by reportable segment is provided in note 2 on page 94.
2010 2009 $m $m Net earned premiums UK Lloyds 1,369.4 1,276.9 US Non-Lloyds 35.8 36.7 1,405.2 1,313.6 Beazley Annual Report 2010 103 Notes to the financial statements continued 3 Segmental analysis continued 2010 2009 $m $m Segment assets UK Lloyds 5,431.9 5,231.5 US Non-Lloyds 342.4 412.5 5,744.3 5,644.0 Segment assets are allocated based on where the assets are located.
2010 2009 $m $m Capital expenditure UK Lloyds 8.1 40.3 US Non-Lloyds 2.0 10.1 40.3 4 Foreign Exchange The following note is presented to explain the impact of foreign exchange differences on the groups reported results to the period ended 31 December 2010.
During 2010 the group changed both the presentation currency of the group and the functional currency of Beazley plc and its underlying principal operating entities to the US dollar.
Please refer to note 1 for further details.
The foreign exchange components in the income statement for the period ended 31 December 2010, comprise: 1 A $33.7m non-recurring gain arising in the first quarter 2010.
On 5 January 2010, the group more closely matched its regulatory capital base through the sale of 308.8m and the purchase of US$492.7m.
The foreign exchange gain arose as a result of the US dollar strengthening against sterling in the first quarter, in entities that for the first quarter had a sterling functional currency.
This gain should be viewed as one-off as it arose as part of the transition in matching our capital to its underlying US dollar exposures.
With a functional currency of the US dollar going forward these currency fluctuations are not likely to recur.
In the segmental analysis this gain has not been allocated to reportable segments and is included in the unallocated column.
2 A $6.1m foreign exchange gain arising on trading items.
This relates to non US dollar denominated monetary assets and liabilities in the groups trading entities that are included in the groups statement of financial position.
This gain, as it relates to trading activity, has been allocated to the reportable segments.
3 A loss of $4.3m in respect of foreign exchange adjustments on non-monetary items that still continue to arise in currencies other than the functional currency of the operating entities concerned.
Of this loss, a gain of $0.9m is reported through net earned premiums and acquisition costs with the remaining $5.2m reported as foreign exchange loss.
All foreign exchange differences on non-monetary items have been left unallocated for segmental reporting purposes.
This has been separately disclosed as it provides a more transparent representation of the loss ratios, which would otherwise be distorted by the mismatch arising under IFRSs caused by unearned premium reserve, reinsurers share of unearned premium reserve and DAC being treated as non-monetary items while claims reserves are treated as monetary items.
4 In summary, the foreign exchange gain of $34.6m shown on the face of the income statement therefore comprises: a gain of $33.7m arising from the change in functional currency, a gain of $6.1m arising on trading activity and a loss of $5.2m in respect of foreign exchange on non-monetary items.
The foreign exchange movements recognised in other comprehensive income in the period ended 31 December 2010 comprise a foreign exchange loss on translation of $55.7m.
The $55.7m has been disclosed in two captions in the statement of comprehensive income: $33.7m described in point 1 above effectively reverses through other comprehensive income with the remaining $22.0m being the impact on net assets of translating the results and assets and liabilities of foreign operations into the groups presentation currency.
The $33.7m is disclosed separately to highlight that.
This arises from the movement in the US dollar to sterling exchange rate between 1 January 2010 and 31 March 2010, being the date immediately prior to the change in the functional currency of certain of the groups operating entities.
In Beazleys case, the opening statement of financial position was translated at a US dollar to sterling exchange rate of 1.61, whilst the rate on the date of the change in functional currency was 1.52.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 5 Net investment income 2010 2009 $m $m Interest and dividends on financial investments at fair value through income statement 60.2 63.8 Realised losses gains on financial investments at fair value through income statement 19.3 23.2 Net unrealised fair value gains on financial investments at fair value through income statement 6.2 10.4 Investment management expenses 9.6 9.3 37.5 88.1 6 Other income 2010 2009 $m $m Commissions received 15.4 9.7 Profit commissions 10.5 8.0 Agency fees 1.8 1.6 Other income 0.4 0.3 28.1 19.6 7 Operating expenses 2010 2009 $m $m Fees payable to the companys auditor for the audit of the groups annual accounts 0.4 0.3 Fees payable to the companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the companys subsidiaries 0.6 0.5 Tax services 0.1 Fees in respect of rights issue and re-domiciliation to Ireland 0.3 Actuarial services 0.2 0.2 Other services 0.3 0.2 Operating leases 9.4 6.3 8 Employee benefit expenses 2010 2009 Group Group $m $m Wages and salaries 83.9 77.5 Short-term incentive payments 34.0 35.0 Social security 8.5 8.9 Share-based remunerations 9.3 8.2 Pension costs 6.1 6.0 141.8 135.6 Recharged to syndicate 623 14.4 13.0 127.4 122.6 Pension costs refer to the contributions made under the defined contribution scheme, further information on the defined benefit pension scheme can be found in note 28.
9 Finance costs 2010 2009 $m $m Interest expense 13.0 13.8 Other finance costs 1.9 14.9 13.8 Beazley Annual Report 2010 105 Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Income tax expense 2010 2009 $m $m Current tax expense Current year 23.4 45.7 Prior year adjustments 44.9 3.5 21.5 42.2 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 11.5 27.0 Prior year adjustments 43.8 4.1 55.3 22.9 Income tax expense 33.8 19.3 Profit before tax 250.8 158.1 Tax calculated at Irish rate 31.4 19.8 Rates applied 12.5% 12.5% Effects of: Tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 7.8 7.1 Retranslation of deferred tax balances on re-domiciliation 11.5 Non-deductible expenses 0.7 0.5 Tax relief on share-based payments current and future years 0.7 2.8 Under over provided in prior years 1.2 0.6 Change in UK tax rates 3.4 Foreign exchange on tax 2.2 Tax charge for the period 33.8 19.3 The weighted average applicable tax rate was 12.5% 2009: 12.5%.
The emergency budget on 22 June 2010 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce from 28% to 24% over a period of four years from 2011.
The first reduction to 27% was enacted on 22 July 2010 and will be effective from 1 April 2011.
Accordingly, this rate reduction has been reflected in the deferred tax liability which forms part of the statement of financial position.
11 Earnings per share 2010 2009 Basic cents 42.1c 28.9c Diluted cents 40.2c 27.9c Basic pence 27.4p 18.4p Diluted pence 26.1p 17.8p Basic Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax of $217.0m 2009: $138.8m by the weighted average number of issued shares during the year of 515.1m 2009: 479.5m.
The shares held in the Employee Share Options Plan ESOP have been excluded from the calculation, until such time as they vest unconditionally with the employees.
Diluted Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax of $217.0m 2009: $138.8m by the adjusted weighted average number of shares of 540.2m 2009: 497.4m.
The adjusted weighted average number of shares assumes conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares, being shares from the SAYE, retention and deferred share schemes.
The shares held in the ESOP have been excluded from the calculation, until such time as they vest unconditionally with the employees.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 12 Dividends per share A second interim dividend of 7.6 pence 2009: 4.7 pence per ordinary share, will be payable on 30 March 2011 to shareholders registered at 5.00pm on 4 March 2011 in respect of the six months ended 31 December 2011.
This second interim dividend consists of a regular dividend of 5.1 pence together with a special dividend of 2.5 pence.
These financial statements do not provide for the second interim dividend as a liability.
Together with the interim dividend of 2.4 pence 2009: 2.3 pence, this gives a total dividend for the year of 10.0 pence 2009: 7.0 pence.
The second interim and special dividends will be paid on 30 March 2011 to shareholders on the register on 4 March 2011 save to the extent that shareholders on the register of members on 4 March 2011 are to be paid a dividend by a subsidiary of the Company being Beazley DAS Limited resident for tax purposes in the United Kingdom pursuant to elections made or deemed to have been made and such shareholders shall have no right to this second interim dividend.
13 Intangible assets Syndicate IT development Goodwill capacity Licences costs Total $m $m $m $m $m Cost Balance at 1 January 2009 51.7 7.0 9.2 16.3 84.2 Acquired through business combinations 23.2 23.2 Other additions 1.8 10.8 12.6 Foreign exchange gain 2.2 0.9 0.1 2.2 5.4 Balance at 31 December 2009 77.1 9.7 9.3 29.3 125.4 Balance at 1 January 2010 77.1 9.7 9.3 29.3 125.4 Other additions 0.2 7.9 8.1 Foreign exchange loss 0.5 1.1 1.6 Balance at 31 December 2010 77.1 9.4 9.3 36.1 131.9 Amortisation Balance at 1 January 2009 8.6 8.6 Amortisation for the year 2.2 2.2 Foreign exchange loss 1.1 1.1 Balance at 31 December 2009 11.9 11.9 Balance at 1 January 2010 11.9 11.9 Amortisation for the year 3.5 3.5 Foreign exchange gain 0.5 0.5 Balance at 31 December 2010 14.9 14.9 Carrying amount 31 December 2010 77.1 9.4 9.3 21.2 117.0 31 December 2009 77.1 9.7 9.3 17.4 113.5 Impairment tests Goodwill, syndicate capacity and licences are deemed to have indefinite life as they are expected to have value in use that does not erode or become obsolete over the course of time.
Consequently, they are not amortised but annually tested for impairment.
They are allocated to the groups cash generating units CGUs as follows: Political Life, accident risks and Specialty and health Marine contingency Property Reinsurance Lines Total 2010 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Goodwill 29.1 2.3 1.0 24.2 0.8 19.7 77.1 Capacity 0.2 1.5 0.7 2.2 0.6 4.2 9.4 Licences 1.9 7.4 9.3 Total 29.3 3.8 1.7 28.3 1.4 31.3 95.8 Beazley Annual Report 2010 107 Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Intangible assets continued Political Life, accident risks and Specialty and health Marine contingency Property Reinsurance Lines Total 2009 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Goodwill 29.1 2.3 1.0 24.2 0.8 19.7 77.1 Capacity 0.3 1.4 0.8 2.3 0.6 4.3 9.7 Licences 1.9 7.4 9.3 Total 29.4 3.7 1.8 28.4 1.4 31.4 96.1 When testing for impairment, the recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value in use.
Value in use is calculated using projected cash flows based on financial budgets approved by management covering a three year period taking into account historic growth rates and expected future market conditions.
A discount rate of 10% 2009: 9% has been used to discount the projected cash flows.
The same discount rate has been applied to all operating segments as these segments all undertake underwriting activities supported by the same capital base.
The discount rate of 10% 2009: 9% is the groups weighted average cost of capital.
It has been calculated using independent measures of the risk free rate of return and the groups risk profile relative to the risk free and market rates of return and as such is considered representative of the rate appropriate of the risk specific to the CGU.
The impairment tests have been performed assuming the groups operating segments are the cash generating units to which the intangible assets have been allocated.
The tests indicated that there is significant headroom in respect of the value in use of all the groups intangible assets and it is not expected that any realistic change in market conditions would give rise to an impairment.
14 Plant and equipment Company Group Fixtures Fixtures Computer & fittings & fittings equipment Total $m $m $m $m Cost Balance at 1 January 2009 14.4 5.0 19.4 Additions 0.5 3.1 1.8 4.9 Foreign exchange gain 0.9 0.9 1.8 Balance at 31 December 2009 0.5 18.4 7.7 26.1 Balance at 1 January 2010 0.5 18.4 7.7 26.1 Additions 1.5 0.5 2.0 Disposals 1.0 0.1 1.1 Transfer of assets from group companies 1.6 Foreign exchange loss 0.6 0.2 0.8 Balance at 31 December 2010 2.1 18.3 7.9 26.2 Accumulated depreciation Balance at 1 January 2009 5.6 2.1 7.7 Depreciation charge for the year 2.7 2.3 5.0 Foreign exchange loss 0.2 0.8 1.0 Balance at 31 December 2009 8.5 5.2 13.7 Balance at 1 January 2010 8.5 5.2 13.7 Depreciation charge for the year 0.4 2.6 1.6 4.2 Disposals 0.7 0.1 0.8 Foreign exchange gain 0.2 0.3 0.5 Balance at 31 December 2010 0.4 10.2 6.4 16.6 Carrying amounts 31 December 2010 1.7 8.1 1.5 9.6 31 December 2009 0.5 9.9 2.5 12.4 108 www.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 15 Investment in associates 2010 2009 $m $m As at 1 January 1.4 Acquisition of associate 6.0 1.4 Share of loss after tax 0.9 As at 31 December 6.5 1.4 The groups investment in associates consists of: % interest Carrying Country of held value incorporation $m $m 2010 Falcon Money Management Holdings Limited and subsidiaries Malta 25 1.4 Capson Corp. Inc. and subsidiary USA 26 5.1 6.5 The aggregate financial information for all associates 100% is as follows: 2010 2009 $m $m Assets 16.3 4.2 Liabilities 5.7 2.9 Equity 10.6 1.3 Loss after tax 3.4 All of the investments in associates are unlisted and are equity accounted using financial information as at 31 December 2010.
16 Deferred acquisition costs 2010 2009 $m $m Balance at 1 January 155.5 131.8 Additions 389.9 350.6 Amortisation charge 381.4 342.6 Foreign exchange gain arising on change in presentational currency 15.7 Balance at 31 December 164.0 155.5 17 Financial investments 2010 2009 $m $m Financial investments at fair value through income statement Hedge funds 433.1 268.8 Debt securities Fixed rate 1,747.4 1,980.5 Floating rate 397.1 599.0 Total financial investments at fair value through income statement 2,577.6 2,848.3 Current 1,474.0 1,181.8 Non-current 1,103.6 1,666.5 2,577.6 2,848.3 A further breakdown of the groups investment portfolio is provided on page 39.
Beazley Annual Report 2010 109 Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Financial investments continued As noted on page 90 consideration is also given when valuing the hedge funds to any restriction applied to distributions, the existence of side pocket provisions and the timing of the latest valuations.
The adjustment to the underlying net asset value of the funds as a result of these considerations was $nil at 31 December 2010 2009: $nil.
The group has given a fixed and floating charge over its investments and other assets to secure obligations to Lloyds in respect of its corporate member subsidiary.
Further details are provided in note 33.
Fair value measurement The table below summarises financial assets carried at fair value using a valuation hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the measurements.
The fair value hierarchy has the following levels: Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments.
An active market is a market in which transactions for the instrument occur with sufficient frequency and volume on an ongoing basis such that quoted prices reflect prices at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants at the measurement date.
Included within Level 1 are bonds and treasury bills of major G-8 government and government agencies.
Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices in markets that are not active, or based on pricing models for which significant inputs can be corroborated by observable market data e. g. interest rates, exchange rates.
Included within Level 2 are non-G8 government bonds and treasury bills, corporate bonds, asset backed securities and mortgage backed securities.
Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are unobservable or for which there is limited market activity on which to measure fair value.
The availability of financial data can vary for different financial assets and is affected by a wide variety of factors, including the type of financial instrument, whether it is new and not yet established in the market place, and other characteristics specific to each transaction.
To the extent that valuation is based on models or inputs that are unobservable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgement.
Accordingly the degree of judgement exercised by management in determining fair value is greatest for instruments classified in Level 3.
The group uses prices and inputs that are current as of the measurement date for valuation of these instruments.
Included within Level 3 are investments in capital growth assets such as hedge funds.
The majority of the groups investments are valued based on quoted market information or other observable market data.
Hedge funds that comprise 16.8% of assets are recorded at fair value are based on estimates and recorded as Level 3 investments.
Where estimates are used, these are based on a combination of independent third party evidence and internally developed models, calibrated to market observable data where possible.
While such valuations are sensitive to estimates, it is believed that changing one or more of the assumptions to reasonably possible alternative assumptions would not change the fair value significantly.
The table below analyses financial instruments measured at fair value at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009, based on the level in the fair value hierarchy into which the financial instrument is categorised: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2010 $m $m $m $m Fixed rate securities 919.1 828.3 1.747.4 Floating rate securities 33.4 363.7 397.1 Hedge funds 433.1 433.1 Total assets at fair value 952.5 1,192.0 433.1 2,577.6 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2009 $m $m $m $m Fixed rate securities 1,348.5 632.2 1,980.7 Floating rate securities 90.3 508.5 598.8 Hedge funds 268.8 268.8 Total assets at fair value 1,438.8 1,140.7 268.8 2,848.3 The table below shows the movement in level 3 assets during 2010 and 2009: 2010 2009 $m $m Level 3 balance at 1 January 268.8 147.7 Purchases 213.8 215.5 Settlements 70.0 113.7 Fair value gains reflected in the income statement 20.5 19.3 Level 3 balance at 31 December 433.1 268.8 110 www.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 17 Financial investments continued There were no transfers between fair value hierarchies during the year.
Refer to price sensitivity note 2.4 the impact of changes in value of these assets on reported profits and net assets.
The value of the investments in the level 3 category are sensitive to changes in fair value of assets within the underlying hedge funds.
This relationship is such that, for example, a 10% reduction in the fair value of hedge fund investments will result in a 10% fall in value of the level 3 balance.
18 Insurance receivables 2010 2009 $m $m Insurance receivables 527.1 498.0 527.1 498.0 These are receivable within one year and relate to business transacted with brokers and intermediaries.
All insurance receivables are designated as loans and receivables and their carrying values approximate fair value at the reporting date.
19 Reinsurance assets 2010 2009 $m $m Reinsurers share of claims 841.1 912.1 Impairment provision 17.3 15.8 823.8 896.3 Reinsurers share of unearned premium reserve 211.1 259.8 1,034.9 1,156.1 Further analysis of the reinsurance assets is provided in note 24.
20 Cash and cash equivalents 2010 2009 $m $m Cash at bank and in hand 81.1 250.1 Short-term deposits 991.1 505.2 Overseas deposits 192.5 58.1 Cash and cash equivalents 1,264.7 813.4 21 Share capital 2010 2009 No.
of shares m $m shares m $m Ordinary shares of 5p each Authorised 700.0 55.8 700.0 55.8 Issued and fully paid 534.9 42.7 533.8 42.6 Balance at 1 January 533.8 42.6 369.5 35.9 Issue of shares 1.1 0.1 164.3 6.7 Balance at 31 December 534.9 42.7 533.8 42.6 Beazley Annual Report 2010 111 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Other reserves Foreign Employee Employee currency share share Merger translation options Treasury trust reserve reserve reserve shares reserve Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Group Balance at 1 January 2009 3.2 127.7 16.1 59.8 31.2 199.4 Foreign exchange gain arising on change in presentation currency 92.8 92.8 Issue of shares Share-based payments 8.1 8.1 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 6.3 6.3 Cancellation of treasury shares 43.1 43.1 Change in net investment hedge 11.9 11.9 Foreign exchange translation differences 24.0 24.0 Transfer of shares to employees 5.0 5.0 Transfer between reserves 16.7 16.7 Transfer of scheme of arrangement and reverse acquisition 1.5 21.2 14.3 5.4 Balance at 31 December 2009 1.7 42.5 4.9 32.5 68.4 Reversal of exceptional foreign exchange gain 33.7 33.7 Foreign exchange gain arising on change in presentational currency 22.0 22.0 Issue of shares Share-based payments 9.1 9.1 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 6.5 6.5 Purchase of treasury shares 28.9 28.9 Change in net investment hedge 5.4 5.4 Foreign exchange translation differences 12.6 12.6 Transfer of shares to employees 8.0 8.0 Balance at 31 December 2010 1.7 91.0 6.0 28.9 31.0 143.2 As part of the scheme of arrangement, as described in note 1 to the financial statements, the reserves of the group were consolidated and transferred to retained earnings, at which point they became distributable reserves of the group.
Foreign Employee Employee Treasury currency share e share Merger shares translation options trust reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Company Balance on incorporation at 9 June 2009 Transfer on scheme of arrangement and reverse acquisition 35.4 35.4 Issue of shares Foreign exchange translation differences 8.4 8.4 Share-based payments 4.4 4.4 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 4.1 4.1 Transfer of shares to employees 1.9 1.9 Balance at 31 December 2009 35.4 8.4 2.5 2.2 26.7 Issue of shares Foreign exchange translation differences 44.3 44.3 Share-based payments 9.1 9.1 Purchase of treasury shares 28.9 28.9 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 6.5 6.5 Transfer of shares to employees 8.0 8.0 Balance at 31 December 2010 35.4 28.9 35.9 3.6 0.7 97.3 112 www.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 23 Equity compensation plans 23.1 Employee share trust 2010 2009 Number m $m Number m $m Costs debited to employee share trust reserve Balance at 1 January 14.2 32.5 12.6 31.2 Additions 3.6 6.5 4.2 6.3 Transfer of shares to employees 4.3 8.0 2.6 5.0 Balance at 31 December 13.5 31.0 14.2 32.5 The shares are owned by the employee share trust to satisfy awards under the groups deferred share plan and retention plan.
These shares are purchased on the market and carried at cost.
On the third anniversary of an award the shares under the deferred share plan are transferred from the trust to the employees.
Under the retention plan, on the third anniversary, and each year after that, 25.0% of the shares awarded are transferred to the employees.
The deferred share plan is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over a period of three years, while the retention share plan is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over a period of six years.
23.2 Employee share option plans The group has a long-term incentive plan LTIP, approved share option plan, unapproved share option plan, phantom share option and SAYE that entitle employees to purchase shares in the group.
In accordance with these plans, options are exercisable at the market price of the shares at the date of the grant.
The terms and conditions of the grants are as follows: Share option plan Grant date No.
of options m Vesting conditions Contractual life of options LTIP 18 02 2010 3.6 Three years service NAV TSR 12 years minimum shareholding requirement LTIP 18 02 2010 3.6 Three years service NAV TSR 10 years minimum shareholding requirement LTIP 21 03 2005 0.2 Three years service NAV 10 years TSR comparator 21 03 2006 0.1 21 03 2008 0.6 16 02 2009 1.6 27 04 2009 0.1 Approved share option plan 29 03 2004 0.1 Three years service NAV 10 years SAYE UK 18 04 2008 0.1 Three years service N A 01 07 2009 1.5 12 04 2010 0.5 SAYE US 15 05 2009 0.3 Two years service N A 15 05 2010 0.2 Total share options outstanding 12.5 Vesting conditions In summary the vesting conditions are defined as: Two years service An employee has to remain in employment until the second anniversary from the grant date.
Three years service An employee has to remain in employment until the third anniversary from the grant date.
NAV The NAV growth is greater than the risk-free rate of return plus a premium per year.
TSR comparator The groups TSR growth is compared with that of members of the comparator group over a three-year period starting with the year in which the award is made.
Further details of equity compensation plans can be found in the directors remuneration report on pages 60 to 74.
Beazley Annual Report 2010 113 Notes to the financial statements continued 23 Equity compensation plans continued The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows: 2010 2009 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise price pence No.
of options price pence No.
of options per share m per share m Outstanding at 1 January 37.6 6.4 37.6 5.0 Rights issue 26.9 0.3 Forfeited during the year 32.3 0.8 23.4 1.3 Exercised during the year 33.3 1.1 37.4 1.2 Granted during the year 7.5 8.0 39.7 3.6 Outstanding at 31 December 17.1 12.5 35.7 6.4 Exercisable at 31 December 0.4 0.9 The share option programme allows group employees to acquire shares of the company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in employee share options reserve.
The fair value of the options granted is measured at grant date and spread over the period in which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using the Black Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest, except where forfeiture is due to the share option achieving the vesting conditions.
The following is a summary of the assumptions used to calculate the fair value: 2010 2009 $m $m Share options charge to income statement 9.1 8.2 Weighted average share price pence per option 102.5 114.4 Weighted average exercise price pence per option 12.4 35.7 Weighted average expected life of options 5.4yrs 5.5yrs Expected volatility 25.0% 25.0% Expected dividend yield 4.0% 4.0% Average risk-free interest rate 4.1% 4.2% The expected volatility is based on historic volatility over a period of at least two years.
24 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 2010 2009 $m $m Gross Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 818.5 888.7 Claims incurred but not reported 2,404.1 2,258.3 Gross claims liabilities 3,222.6 3,147.0 Unearned premiums 824.2 876.7 Total insurance liabilities, gross 4,046.8 4,023.7 Recoverable from reinsurers Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 202.4 255.3 Claims incurred but not reported 621.4 640.9 Reinsurers share of claims liabilities 823.8 896.2 Unearned premiums 211.1 259.9 Total reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 1,034.9 1,156.1 114 www.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 24 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued 2010 2009 $m $m Net Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 616.1 633.4 Claims incurred but not reported 1,782.7 1,617.4 Net claims liabilities 2,398.8 2,250.8 Unearned premiums 613.1 616.8 Total insurance liabilities, net 3,011.9 2,867.6 The gross claims reported, the loss adjustment liabilities and the liabilities for claims incurred but not reported are net of expected recoveries from salvage and subrogation.
24.1 Movements in insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets a Claims and loss adjustment expenses 2010 2009 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net $m $m $m $m $m $m Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 888.7 255.3 633.4 716.1 157.5 558.6 Claims incurred but not reported 2,258.3 640.9 1,617.4 1,859.9 494.4 1,365.5 Balance at 1 January 3,147.0 896.2 2,250.8 2,576.0 651.9 1,924.1 Claims paid 702.4 161.3 541.1 645.6 151.5 494.1 Increase in claims Arising from current year claims 1,091.6 208.8 882.8 1,083.3 235.2 848.1 Arising from prior year claims 231.0 86.4 144.6 75.7 29.8 105.5 Reinsurance to close 59.2 18.7 40.5 Net exchange differences 82.6 33.5 49.1 160.9 31.1 192.0 Foreign exchange gain loss arising on change in presentational currency 310.7 81.0 229.7 Balance at 31 December 3,222.6 823.8 2,398.8 3,147.0 896.2 2,250.8 Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 818.5 202.4 616.1 888.7 255.3 633.4 Claims incurred but not reported 2,404.1 621.4 1,782.7 2,258.3 640.9 1,617.4 Balance at 31 December 3,222.6 823.8 2,398.8 3,147.0 896.2 2,250.8 b Unearned premiums reserve 2010 2009 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net $m $m $m $m $m $m Balance at 1 January 876.7 259.9 616.8 659.2 123.7 535.5 Increase in the year 1,741.6 339.5 1,402.1 1,751.4 420.0 1,331.4 Release in the year 1,794.1 388.3 1,405.8 1,653.7 340.2 1,313.5 Net exchange differences arising in overseas subsidiary 38.5 38.8 0.3 Foreign exchange gain loss arising on change in presentational currency 81.3 17.6 63.7 Balance at 31 December 824.2 211.1 613.1 876.7 259.9 616.8 Beazley Annual Report 2010 115 Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued 24.2 Assumptions, changes in assumptions and sensitivity analysis a Process used to decide on assumptions The peer review reserving process Beazley uses a quarterly dual track process to set its reserves: The actuarial team uses several actuarial and statistical methods to estimate the ultimate premium and claims costs.
The most appropriate methods are selected depending on the nature of each class of business: and The underwriting teams concurrently review the development of the incurred loss ratio over time, work with our claims managers to set specific reserve estimates for identified claims and utilise their detailed understanding of the risks underwritten to establish an alternative estimate of ultimate claims cost which are compared to the actuarially established figures.
A formal internal peer review process is then undertaken to determine the reserves held for accounting purposes which, in totality, are not lower than the actuarially established figure.
The group also commissions an annual independent review to ensure that the reserves established are reasonable.
The group has a consistent reserving philosophy with initial reserves being set to indicate risk margins which may be released over time as and when any uncertainty reduces.
Actuarial assumptions Chain-ladder techniques are applied to premiums, paid claims and incurred claims i. e. paid claims plus case estimates.
The basic technique involves the analysis of historical claims development factors and the selection of estimated development factors based on historical patterns.
The selected development factors are then applied to cumulative claims data for each underwriting year that is not yet fully developed to produce an estimated ultimate claims cost for each underwriting year.
Chain-ladder techniques are most appropriate for classes of business that have a relatively stable development pattern.
Chain-ladder techniques are less suitable in cases in which the insurer does not have a developed claims history for a particular class of business or for underwriting years that are still at immature stages of development where there is a higher level of assumption volatility.
The Bornhuetter-Ferguson method uses a combination of a benchmark market-based estimate and an estimate based on claims experience.
The former is based on a measure of exposure such as premiums: the latter is based on the paid or incurred claims observed to date.
The two estimates are combined using a formula that gives more weight to the experience-based estimate as time passes.
This technique has been used in situations where developed claims experience was not available for the projection i. e. recent underwriting years or new classes of business.
The expected loss ratio method uses a benchmark market-based estimate applied to the expected premium and is used for classes with little or no relevant historical data.
The choice of selected results for each underwriting year of each class of business depends on an assessment of the technique that has been most appropriate to observed historical developments.
In certain instances, this has meant that different techniques or combinations of techniques have been selected for individual underwriting years or groups of underwriting years within the same class of business.
As such, there are many assumptions used to estimate general insurance liabilities.
We also review triangulations of the paid outstanding claim ratios as a way of monitoring any changes in the strength of the outstanding claim estimates between underwriting years so that adjustment can be made to mitigate any subsequent over or under reserving.
To date, this analysis indicates no systematic change to the outstanding claim strength across underwriting years.
Where a significantly large loss impacts an underwriting year e. g. the events of 11 September 2001, the hurricanes in 2004, 2005 and 2008, and the earthquakes in 2010, its development is usually very different from the attritional losses.
In these situations, the large loss is extracted from the remainder of the data and analysed separately by the respective claims managers using exposure analysis of the policies in force in the areas affected.
Further assumptions are required to convert gross of reinsurance estimates of ultimate claims cost to a net of reinsurance level and to establish reserves for unallocated claims handling expenses and reinsurance bad debt.
b Major assumptions The main assumption underlying these techniques is that the groups past claims development experience with appropriate adjustments for known changes can be used to project future claims development and hence ultimate claims costs.
As such these methods extrapolate the development of premiums, paid and incurred losses, average costs per claim and claim numbers for each underwriting year based on the observed development of earlier years.
Throughout, judgement is used to assess the extent to which past trends may not apply in the future, for example, to reflect changes in external or market factors such as economic conditions, public attitudes to claiming, levels of claims inflation, premium rate changes, judicial decisions and legislation, as well as internal factors such as portfolio mix, policy conditions and claims handling procedures.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 24 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued c Changes in assumptions As already discussed, general insurance business requires many different assumptions.
The diagram below illustrates the main categories of assumptions used for each underwriting year and class combinations.
Life, accident and health Marine Premium rate change Political risks and contingency Claims inflation Property Mix of business Reinsurance Reporting patterns Specialty lines Settlement patterns Judicial decisions Professional judgment Underwriting years 1993 1994... 2007 2010 Given the range of assumptions used, the groups profit or loss is relatively insensitive to changes to a particular assumption used for an underwriting year class combination.
However, the groups profit or loss is potentially more sensitive to a systematic change in assumptions that affect many classes, such as judicial changes or when catastrophes produce more claims than expected.
The group uses a range of risk mitigation strategies to reduce the volatility including the purchase of reinsurance.
In addition, the group holds additional capital to absorb volatility.
The net of reinsurance estimates of ultimate claims costs on the 2009 and prior underwriting years has improved by $144.6m during 2010 2009: $105.5m.
This movement has arisen from a combination of better than expected claims experience coupled with small changes to the many assumptions reacting to the observed experience and anticipating any changes as a result of the new business written.
d Sensitivity analysis The estimation of IBNR reserves for future claim notifications is subject to a greater degree of uncertainty than the estimation of the outstanding claims already notified.
This is particularly true for the specialty lines business, which will typically display greater variations between initial estimates and final outcomes as a result of the greater degree of difficulty in estimating these reserves.
The estimation of IBNR reserves for other business written is generally subject to less variability as claims are generally reported and settled relatively quickly.
As such, our reserving assumptions contain a reasonable margin for prudence given the uncertainties inherent in the insurance business underwritten, particularly on the longer tailed specialty lines classes.
Since year end 2004, we have identified a range of possible outcomes for each class and underwriting year combination directly from our ICA process.
Comparing these with our pricing assumptions and reserving estimates gives our management team increased clarity into our perceived reserving strength and relative uncertainties of the business written.
To illustrate the robustness of our reserves, the loss development tables below provide information about historical claims development by the six segments life, accident & health, marine, political risks & contingency, property, reinsurance and specialty lines.
The tables are by underwriting year which in our view provides the most transparent reserving basis.
We have supplied tables for both ultimate gross claims and ultimate net claims.
The top part of the table illustrates how the groups estimate of claims ratio for each underwriting year has changed at successive year-ends.
The bottom half of the table reconciles the gross and net claims to the amount appearing in the statement of financial position.
While the information in the table provides a historical perspective on the adequacy of the claims liabilities established in previous years, users of these financial statements are cautioned against extrapolating past redundancies or deficiencies on current claims liabilities.
The group believes that the estimate of total claims liabilities as at 31 December 2010 are adequate.
However, due to inherent uncertainties in the reserving process, it cannot be assured that such balances will ultimately prove to be adequate.
Generally, the claims experience has been in line with that expected in an average year.
We are cautiously reserved for natural catastrophes and the claims frequency on our specialty lines classes has been relatively stable.
Life, accident & health This year we show our life, accident & health business in a separate loss development table.
The 2009 underwriting year has developed favourably and the claims development to date has been in line with or better than that experienced historically by the team.
Marine All years have continued to exhibit a reducing net ultimate loss ratio trend.
The late gross development on the 2003 underwriting year, albeit of relatively low quantum, has arisen on a war account claim.
This team continues to report profitable loss ratios on all underwriting years despite the impact of increased piracy, the 2005 and 2008 hurricanes and the Deepwater Horizon disaster.
Political risks & contingency In 2009 we reported that the ultimate claims on the 2006, 2007 and 2008 underwriting years had increased as a result of the deterioration in the claims environment of our political class, particularly from trade credit related contracts.
During 2010, our claim estimates have remained robust and we have begun to see modest improvement in 2006 and 2007 underwriting years.
The 2009 underwriting year shows a reversion to more benign claims experience.
We continue to monitor claim frequency on a calendar month basis as an early indicator for future development.
Property There was a marginal gross only increase on the 2006 underwriting year due to a loss at a steelworks facility.
The increase in ultimate claims on the 2007 underwriting year arose on our engineering class from a project delay in the refurbishment of a nuclear power facility.
All other underwriting years showed downward movement in claim estimates.
Reinsurance All years have continued to reduce.
The reserves for hurricanes Katrina and Ike have been reassessed and reduced during 2010.
For both, this is a continuation of the releases made in 2009.
The 2010 underwriting year ultimate loss ratio has been set higher to reflect the New Zealand and Chilean earthquake loss estimates.
The life, accident & health business is no longer included in the reinsurance loss development table.
Specialty lines The trend of consistent releases across underwriting years has continued, particularly on the 2003, 2004 and 2005 underwriting years.
While we continue to take a more conservative view on the 2006 underwriting year, we have begun to release reserves during 2010.
The incurred claims development continues to track prior underwriting years.
During 2010 the team undertook a comprehensive review of the potential impact of the recession on claims experience in the 2007, 2008 and 2009 underwriting years.
The conclusion of the review is that the ultimate loss ratios remain robust.
Our 2010 underwriting year loss ratio has been set slightly higher than in previous years.
This reflects rate reductions and is consistent with our cautious reserving philosophy.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 24 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued Claim releases The table below analyses our net claims between current year claims and adjustments to prior year net claims reserves.
These have been broken down by department and period.
When quoted market prices are not available, a discounted cash flow model is used based on a current yield curve appropriate for the remaining term to maturity.
The discount rates used in the valuation techniques are based on the borrowing rates.
Beazley Annual Report 2010 121 Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Borrowings continued In November 2004, the group issued subordinated debt of US $18m to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A JPMorgan.
The loan is unsecured and interest is payable at the US London interbank offered rate LIBOR plus a margin of 3.65% per annum.
The subordinated notes are due in November 2034.
In October 2006, the group issued 150m of unsecured fixed floating rate subordinated notes that are due in October 2026 with a first callable at the groups option on October 2016.
Interest of 7.25% per annum is paid annually in arrears for the period up to October 2016.
From October 2016, the notes will bear annual interest at the rate of 3.28% above LIBOR.
The notes were assigned a credit rating of BBBby S&Ps rating services.
The group entered into a cross currency swap transaction with Lloyds Banking Group and JPMorgan in October 2006.
In exchange for 42.3m the group received US$40m from each party which will be finally exchanged on termination of the contract, being October 2016.
Lloyds Banking Group charged interest at US three-month LIBOR plus 2.25%, while JPMorgan charged interest at US three-month LIBOR plus 2.23%.
As part of the agreement, the group received interest at 7.25% from both parties.
The group also entered into an interest rate swap transaction with Lloyds Banking Group and JPMorgan in October 2006.
Under this agreement, the fixed interest rate of 7.25% on the balance of 107.7m 53.8m from each party was exchanged for floating interest rate of UK LIBOR plus 2.24% with Lloyds Banking Group and UK LIBOR plus 2.23% with JPMorgan.
In April 2010 the group traded out of the interest rate swap and cross currency swap transactions.
We traded out of the currency component of the original derivative transaction since this was originally intended to act as a hedge against the groups investment in its US subsidiaries.
Following the change in functional and presentation currency to US dollars this hedge was no longer required.
In addition to these borrowings we operate a syndicated short-term banking facility, managed through Lloyds Banking Group plc.
In October 2010 we renewed our existing syndicated short-term banking facility led by Lloyds Banking Group plc.
The facility provides potential borrowings up to $150m.
The new agreement is based on a commitment fee of 0.7% per annum and any amounts drawn are charged at a margin of 1.75% per annum.
The cash element of the facility will last for three years, expiring on 31 December 2013, whilst letters of credit issued under the facility can be used to provide support for the 2010, 2011 and 2012 underwriting years.
The facility is currently unutilised.
26 Derivative financial instruments The group uses fair value hedges and net investment hedges to manage some of its exposures.
The group entered into derivative financial instruments to manage this risk.
2010 2009 $m $m Fair value Interest rate swap 21.7 Cross currency swap 12.4 9.3 a Fair value hedges As described in note 25, the group traded out of the interest rate swap transaction.
b Hedge of net investment in foreign entity The group traded out of the currency component of the original derivative transaction since this was originally intended to act as a hedge against the groups investment in its US subsidiaries.
Following the switch in reporting currency to US dollars this hedge was no longer required.
c Interest rate futures contracts During the year the group entered into a number of long and short exchange-traded futures denominated in a range of currencies to manage the interest rate duration of the investment portfolio.
The gross notional amount entered into is $375.6m and the fair value is settled daily in cash by way of margin accounts.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 27 Other payables 2010 2009 $m $m Reinsurance premiums payable 179.3 188.4 Accrued expenses including staff bonuses 70.8 66.0 Other payables 13.9 21.4 Deferred consideration payable on acquisition of MGAs 13.6 13.5 Due to syndicate 6107 7.8 285.4 289.3 All other payables are payable within 1 year of the reporting date other than deferred consideration which is payable after 1 year.
The carrying value approximates fair values.
28 Retirement benefit obligations 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 $m $m $m $m $m Retirement benefit obligations 1.8 3.7 Present value of funded obligations 26.0 24.8 14.8 34.8 31.4 Fair value of plan assets 24.0 20.8 14.4 30.8 26.3 Experience gains losses on scheme liabilities 0.2 0.5 1.6 0.2 2.5 Beazley Furlonge Limited operates a defined benefit pension scheme the Beazley Furlonge Limited Pension Scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay, with contributions being charged to the income statement so as to spread the cost of pensions over employees working lives with the company.
The contributions are determined by a qualified actuary using the projected unit method and the most recent valuation was at 31 December 2009.
Pension benefits Amount recognised in the statement of financial position 2010 2009 $m $m Present value of funded obligations 26.0 24.8 Fair value of plan assets 24.2 20.8 1.8 4.0 Unrecognised actuarial losses 4.9 5.6 Asset in the statement of financial position 3.1 1.6 The asset in the pension scheme arose due to a prepayment of $3.1m 2009: $1.6m.
Amounts recognised in the income statement Current service cost Interest cost 1.4 0.9 Expected return on plan assets 1.2 0.9 0.2 Beazley Annual Report 2010 123 Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Retirement benefit obligations continued 2010 2009 $m $m Movement in present value of funded obligations recognised in the statement of financial position Balance at 1 January 24.8 14.8 Current service cost 0.5 Interest cost 1.4 0.9 Actuarial losses 0.9 6.6 Foreign exchange gain 1.1 Foreign exchange loss arising on change in presentational currency 2.0 Balance at 31 December 26.0 24.8 Movement in fair value of plan assets recognised in the statement of financial position Balance at 1 January 20.8 14.4 Expected return on plan assets 1.2 0.9 Actuarial gains 1.6 2.0 Employer contributions 1.6 1.6 Benefits paid Foreign exchange gain 1.0 Foreign exchange loss arising on change in presentational currency 1.9 Balance at 31 December 24.2 20.8 Plan assets are comprised as follows: Equities 16.5 13.5 Bonds 7.7 7.3 Cash Total 24.2 20.8 The actual gain on plan assets was $2.1m 2009: $3.0m.
2010 2009 $m $m Principal actuarial assumptions Discount rate 5.4% 5.7% Inflation rate 3.4% 3.7% Expected return on plan assets 5.5% 5.9% Future salary increases 6.2% 6.5% Future pensions increases 3.0% 3.2% Life expectancy 88 years 88 years 124 www.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 29 Deferred tax 2010 2009 $m $m Deferred tax asset 9.5 8.9 Deferred tax liability 91.0 35.1 81.5 26.2 The movement in the net deferred income tax is as follows: Balance at 1 January 26.2 43.6 Income tax charge 55.3 22.9 Foreign exchange translation differences 5.5 Balance at 31 December 81.5 26.2 Balance Recognised Recognised Balance 1 Jan 10 in income in equity 31 Dec 10 $m $m $m $m Plant and equipment 0.2 0.5 0.7 Intangible assets 0.8 0.3 0.5 Other receivables 0.1 0.1 Trade and other payables 2.9 0.2 2.7 Underwriting profits 37.5 311.3 348.8 Tax losses 8.9 255.5 264.4 Net deferred income tax account 26.2 55.3 81.5 Balance Recognised Recognised Foreign Balance 1 Jan 09 in income in equity exchange 31 Dec 09 $m $m $m $m $m Plant and equipment 0.1 0.3 0.2 Intangible assets 0.4 0.4 0.8 Other receivables 0.1 0.1 0.1 Trade and other payables 3.3 0.8 2.9 Underwriting profits 56.3 24.8 6.0 37.5 Tax losses 9.8 1.1 0.9 2.0 8.9 Net deferred income tax account 43.6 22.9 0.9 4.0 26.2 The group has recognised deferred tax assets on unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which unused tax losses can be utilised, as supported by financial projections.
Beazley Annual Report 2010 125 Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Operating lease commitments The group leases land and buildings under a non-cancellable operating lease agreement.
The future minimum lease payments under the non-cancellable operating lease are as follows: 2010 2009 $m $m No later than 1 year 6.0 5.8 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 18.0 20.0 Later than 5 years 4.7 8.3 28.7 34.1 31 Related party transactions The group and company have related party relationships with syndicates 623 and 6107, its subsidiaries, associates and its directors.
31.1 Syndicates 623 and 6107 The group received management fees and profit commissions for providing a range of management services to syndicate 623 and 6107, which are managed by the group.
In addition, the group ceded portions or all of a group of insurance policies to syndicate 6107.
Details of transactions entered and the balances with these syndicates are as follows: 2010 2009 $m $m Written premium ceded to syndicates 13.3 Other income received from syndicates 25.8 19.3 Services provided 23.6 19.9 Balances due: Due from syndicate 623 12.2 7.9 Due to syndicate 6107 7.8 31.2 Key management compensation 2010 2009 $m $m Salaries and other short-term benefits 15.4 15.2 Post employment benefits 0.6 0.6 Share-based remuneration 4.4 4.1 20.4 19.9 Key management include executives and non-executive directors and other senior management.
Further details of directors shareholdings and remuneration can be found in the directors remuneration report on pages 60 to 74.
31.3 Other related party transactions At 31 December 2010, the group had a balance payable to the associate Falcon Money Management Limited of $nil 2009: $0.2m and purchased services from the associate of $6.2m 2009: $3.0m throughout the year.
All transactions with the associate and subsidiaries are priced on an arms length basis.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 32 Parent company and subsidiary undertakings Beazley plc is the ultimate parent and the ultimate controlling party within the group.
The following is a list of all the subsidiaries: Country of Ownership incorporation interest Nature of business Beazley Group Limited England 100% Intermediate holding company Beazley Furlonge Holdings Limited England 100% Intermediate holding company Beazley Furlonge Limited England 100% Lloyds underwriting agents BFHH Limited England 100% Dormant Beazley Investments Limited England 100% Investment company Beazley Corporate Member Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Beazley Dedicated No.
2 Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Global Two Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Beazley Underwriting Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Beazley Management Limited England 100% Intermediate management company Beazley Staff Underwriting Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Beazley Solutions Limited England 100% Insurance services Beazley Corporate Member No.
2 England 100% Dormant Beazley Corporate Member No.
3 England 100% Dormant Deltaland Ltd England 100% Dormant Beazley Finance Ltd England 100% Intermediate holding company Beazley Dedicated Ltd England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Beazley Capital Management Ltd England 100% Investment services Beazley Underwriting Services Ltd England 100% Insurance services Beazley DAS Limited England 100% Dividend access scheme Beazley Re Limited Ireland 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Beazley Underwriting Pty Ltd Australia 100% Insurance services Beazley USA Services, Inc. USA 100% Insurance services Beazley Holdings, Inc. USA 100% Holding company Beazley Group USA General Partnership USA 100% General partnership Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. USA 100% Underwrite admitted lines Beazley Limited Hong Kong 100% Insurance services Tasman Corporate Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Beazley Pte.
Limited Singapore 100% Underwriting at Lloyds 33 Contingencies 33.1 Funds at Lloyds The following amounts are subject to a deed of charge in favour of Lloyds to secure underwriting commitments.
Underwriting Underwriting Underwriting year year year 2011 2010 2009 m m m Debt securities and other fixed income securities 505.0 494.4 360.8 33.2 Financial guarantee The parent company has provided a financial guarantee in favour of its subsidiary Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. which unconditionally guarantees the payment of amounts due to third party reinsurers in the event of the inability of the subsidiary company to meet its obligations.
34 Foreign exchange rates The group used the following exchange rates to translate foreign currency assets, liabilities, income and expenses into US dollars being the groups presentation currency: 2010 2009 Average Year end spot Average Year end spot Pound sterling 0.65 0.65 0.64 0.62 Canadian dollar 1.03 1.00 1.14 1.05 Euro 0.77 0.75 0.72 0.70 Beazley Annual Report 2010 127 Notes to the financial statements continued 35 Subsequent events The end of 2010 and the start of 2011 have been marked by heavy rains and flooding in Queensland, Australia as well as a significant tropical storm, Yasi.
We do not expect the cost to Beazley of the insured losses occuring in 2010 from these events to be material.
Whilst it is too early to be able to make any difinitive statement concerning the events that have occured so far during 2011 due to the uncertainty, we believe they will be contained within our first half 2011 catastrophe budgets.
The event is a non-adjusting event in that it has not been reflected in the financial statements of the group for the year ended 31 December 2010.
36 Notes disclosure in respect of the statement of financial position presented as at 31 December 2008 In accordance with IAS 21 foreign currency translation, since Beazley plc has changed its presentational currency to US dollars during the year as described in note 1 accounting policies the group is required to separately disclose a third comparative restated statement of financial position and supporting notes for any significant balances.
The following notes were deemed significant: a Financial investments 2008 $m Financial investments at fair value through income statement Equity securities-listed 26.2 Hedge funds 147.7 Debt securities Fixed rate securities 1,569.3 Floating rate securities 489.7 Total financial investments at fair value through income statement 2,232.9 Current 1,145.1 Non-current 1,087.8 2,232.9 b Insurance receivables 2008 $m Insurance receivables 414.4 These are receivable within one year and relate to business transacted with brokers and intermediaries.
All insurance receivables are designated as loans and receivables and their carrying values approximate fair value at the statement of financial position date.
c Reinsurance assets 2008 $m Reinsurers share of claims 664.8 Impairment provision 12.9 651.9 Reinsurers share of unearned premium reserve 123.7 775.6 128 www.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 36 Notes disclosure in respect of the statement of financial position presented as at 31 December 2008 continued d Cash and cash equivalents 2008 $m Cash at bank and in hand 179.1 Short-term deposits 306.6 Overseas deposits 153.1 Cash and cash equivalents 638.8 e Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 2008 $m Gross Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 716.1 Claims incurred but not reported 1,859.9 Gross claims liabilities 2,576.0 Unearned premiums 659.2 Total insurance liabilities, gross 3,235.2 Recoverable from reinsurers Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 157.5 Claims incurred but not reported 494.4 Reinsurers share of claims liabilities 651.9 Unearned premiums 123.7 Total reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 775.6 Net Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 558.6 Claims incurred but not reported 1,365.5 Net claims liabilities 1,924.1 Unearned premiums 535.5 Total insurance liabilities, net 2,459.6 The gross claims reported, the loss adjustment liabilities and the liabilities for claims incurred but not reported are net of expected recoveries from salvage and subrogation.
f Borrowings The carrying amount and fair values of the non-current borrowings are as follows: 2008 $m Carrying value Subordinated debt 18.0 Tier 2 subordinated debt 237.6 255.6 Fair value Subordinated debt 18.0 Tier 2 subordinated debt 168.2 186.2 Beazley Annual Report 2010 129
