Glossary Admitted carrier Coverholder managing general agent An insurance company licensed by a particular US state, monitored A firm either in the United Kingdom or overseas authorised by a by the state for financial stability, covered by the states guarantee managing agent under the terms of a binding authority to enter into fund, and subject to the states regulations for licensed insurance contracts of insurance in the name of the members of the syndicate companies.
concerned, subject to certain written terms and conditions.
A Lloyds broker can act as a coverholder.
Aggregates aggregations Accumulations of insurance loss exposures which result from Deferred acquisition costs DAC underwriting multiple risks that are exposed to common causes of loss.
Costs incurred for the acquisition or the renewal of insurance policies e. g. brokerage, premium levy and staff related costs which are Aggregate excess of loss capitalised and amortised over the term of the contracts.
The reinsurer indemnifies an insurance company the reinsured for an aggregate or cumulative amount of losses in excess of a specified Earnings per share EPS Basic Diluted aggregate amount.
Ratio, in pence and cents, calculated by dividing the consolidated profit after tax by the weighted average number of ordinary shares A. M. Best issued, excluding shares owned by the group.
For calculating diluted A. M. Best is a worldwide insurance-rating and information agency earnings per share the number of shares and profit or loss for the year whose ratings are recognised as an ideal benchmark for assessing is adjusted for all dilutive potential ordinary shares like share options the financial strength of insurance related organisations, following a granted to employees.
rigorous quantitative and qualitative analysis of a companys balance sheet strength, operating performance and business profile.
Beazley Excess per risk reinsurance plc obtained an A rating, while Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a specified received a rating of A. limit, indemnifies the reinsured company against the amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect of each risk involved in Binding authority each loss.
A contracted agreement between a managing agent and a coverholder under which the coverholder is authorised to enter into contracts of Expense ratio insurance for the account of the members of the syndicate concerned, Ratio, in percent, of the sum of expenses for acquisition of insurance subject to specified terms and conditions.
contracts and administrative expenses to net earned premiums.
The calculation is performed excluding the impact of foreign exchange on Capacity non-monetary items.
This is the maximum amount of premiums that can be accepted by a syndicate.
Capacity also refers to the amount of insurance coverage Facultative reinsurance allocated to a particular policyholder or in the marketplace in general.
A reinsurance risk that is placed by means of a separately negotiated contract as opposed to one that is ceded under a reinsurance treaty.
Capital growth assets These assets that do not pay a regular income and target an increase Gross premiums written in value over the long term.
They will typically have a higher risk and Amounts payable by the insured, excluding any taxes or duties levied volativity over that of the core portfolio.
Currently these are the hedge on the premium, including any brokerage and commission deducted fund assets.
Catastrophe reinsurance Hard market A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a specified limit, An insurance market where prevalent prices are high, with restrictive indemnifies the reinsured company for the amount of loss in excess terms and conditions offered by insurers.
of a specified retention with respect to an accumulation of losses resulting from a catastrophic event or series of events.
Horizontal limits Reinsurance coverage limits for multiple events.
Claims Demand by an insured for indemnity under an insurance contract.
Incurred but not reported IBNR These are anticipated or likely claims that may result from an insured Claims ratio event although no claims have been reported so far.
Ratio, in percent, of net insurance claims to net earned premiums.
The calculation is performed excluding the impact of foreign exchange International accounting standards IAS International financial on non-monetary items.
reporting standards IFRS Standards formulated by the IASB with the intention of achieving Combined ratio internationally comparable financial statements.
Since 2002, the Ratio, in percent, of the sum of net insurance claims, expenses for standards adopted by the IASB have been referred to as International acquisition of insurance contracts and administrative expenses to Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Until existing standards are net earned premiums.
This is also the sum of the expense ratio and renamed, they continue to be referred to as International Accounting the claims ratio.
The calculation is performed excluding the impact of Standards IAS.
foreign exchange on non-monetary items.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements International accounting standards board IASB Retrocessional reinsurance An international panel of accounting experts responsible for developing The reinsurance of the reinsurance account.
Risk Lead underwriter This term may variously refer to: The underwriter of a syndicate who is responsible for setting the terms a the possibility of some event occurring which causes injury or loss: of an insurance or reinsurance contract that is subscribed by more b the subject matter of an insurance or reinsurance contract: or than one syndicate and who generally has primary responsibility for c an insured peril.
handling any claims arising under such a contract.
Sidecar syndicate Line Specialty reinsurance company designed to provide additional capacity The proportion of an insurance or reinsurance risk that is accepted by to a specific insurance company.
They operate by purchasing a portion an underwriter or which an underwriter is willing to accept.
or all of a group of insurance policies, typically cat exposures.
They have become quite prominent in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina as Managing agent a vehicle to add risk-bearing capacity, and for investors to participate A company that is permitted by Lloyds to manage the underwriting of in the potential profits resulting from sharp price increases.
Short tail Managing general agent MGA A type of insurance where claims are usually made during the term of An insurance intermediary acting as an agent on behalf of an insurer.
the policy or shortly after the policy has expired.
Property insurance is an example of short tail business.
Medium tail A type of insurance where the claims may be made a few years after Soft market the period of insurance has expired.
An insurance market where prevalent prices are low, and terms and conditions offered by insurers are less restrictive.
Net assets per share Ratio, in pence and cents calculated by dividing the net assets total Surplus lines insurer equity by the number of shares issued.
An insurer that underwrites surplus lines insurance in the USA.
Lloyds underwriters are surplus lines insurers in all jurisdictions of the USA Net premiums written except Kentucky and the US Virgin Islands.
Net premiums written is equal to gross premiums written less outward reinsurance premiums written.
Total shareholder return The increase in the share price plus the value of any first and second Provision for outstanding claims dividends paid and proposed during the year.
Provision for claims that have already been incurred at the reporting date but have either not yet been reported or not yet been fully settled.
Treaty reinsurance A reinsurance contract under which the reinsurer agrees to offer and Rate to accept all risks of certain size within a defined class.
The premium expressed as a percentage of the sum insured or limit of indemnity.
Unearned premiums reserve The portion of premium income in the business year that is Reinsurance sidecar attributable to periods after the balance date is accounted for as A special purpose syndicate SPS created to operate as a reinsurance unearned premiums in the underwriting provisions.
sidecar to Beazleys treaty account, capitalising on Beazleys position in the treaty reinsurance market.
Reinsurance to close RITC A reinsurance which closes a year of account by transferring the responsibility for discharging all the liabilities that attach to that year of account and any year of account closed into that year plus the right to buy any income due to the closing year of account into an open year of account in return for a premium.
Retention limits Limits imposed upon underwriters for retention of exposures by the group after the application of reinsurance programmes.
Return on equity ROE Ratio, in percent calculated by dividing the consolidated profit after tax by the average daily total equity.
com 25 years of profitable growth Our first 25 years Beazley Group began life in 1986 as Beazley, Furlonge & Hiscox, which was bought out by Andrew Beazley and Nicholas Furlonge in 1992.
Since then the company has grown steadily in terms of the risks we cover, the clients we serve and our geographic reach.
Beazley today is a mature insurance business with a well diversified portfolio.
During this time we have weathered some of the toughest times the Lloyds market has seen in more than three centuries and our underwriting operations have an unbroken record of profitability.
86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 13.4m 22.1m 24.7m 24.1m 29.5m 42.5m 58.8m 101.4m 107.6m 135.2m 124.2m 128.4m 168.8m 217.1m 256.1m 431.6m 675.6m 1,148.7m 1,374.9m 1,485.1m 1,762.0m 1,919.6m 1,984.9m 2,121.7m 2,108.5m Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US premiums $US Lloyds Active UK windstorms European storms Lloyds Active Commercial Total Beazley Corporate capital Lloyds Beazley Recall, Marine Management Flotation raised 574.3m 736.2m 1,015.6m 1,371.0m 1,561.0m 1,620.0m 1,751.3m 1,741.6m members: members: Property syndicates introduced to Reconstruction Dedicated Contingency account buyout of minority 150m to set US $3.5bn US $10bn Group share Group share Group share Group share Group share Group share Group share Group share 28,242 26,539 account tarted capacity Lloyds and Renewal established and Political started shareholders up Beazley $US $US $US $US $US $US introduced Risk accounts EPL and UK PI $US $US Group plc Capacity: Capacity: US hurricane UK Bishopsgate US Northridge APUA, based European storms started accounts started D&O Healthcare, Engineering Beazley MGA Beazley takes BICI begins Political Risk 8,291m 11,063m Andrew explosion earthquake Lloyds Active in Hong Kong, US $12bn Raised 150m Andrew Beazley, Energy, Cargo and and started in US full ownership writing US & Contingency US $17bn US $750m US $12.5bn members: forms a strategic Lloyds Active through rights co-founder of Syndicates: 370 Syndicates: 354 Specie accounts Construction of APUA and admitted Group formed 13,062 Capacity: partnership with members: issue to develop Beazley Group Beazley acquires Begin trading at started account renames it mid-market as new division 9,994m Beazley Furlonge 3,746 our business at and chief Omaha P&C the old 1958 started commercial Lloyds and in executive until SARS outbreak and renames Beazley Limited Acquisition of Lloyds Capacity: Syndicates: 167 Lloyds building property the US September in Asia it Beazley Momentum Reconstruction 11,263m Expansion of in 1985 2008, dies at Insurance US hurricane Ike Underwriting and Renewal Syndicates: US $3.5bn Acquisition Construction & the age of 57.
Beazley Furlonge Company, Inc. Management.
122 US $20bn of First State concluded Engineering and Hiscox BICI Management Beazley changes team into Accident & Life US 9 11 terrorist established Group, Inc. a functional and US hurricane Singapore formed as a attack and takes over US underwriting presentational Katrina new division US $20.3bn Beazley opens managing manager focusing currency to US US $56.5bn new office Syndicate 623 on surplus lines dollars in Paris commercial Specialty lines Special purpose Lloyds Active property business and Treaty syndicate 6107 members: accounts started Beazley plc formed to grow 2,211 becomes the new reinsurance Capacity: holding company business 14,788m for the group, External events: incorporated Chile and NZ Syndicates: 65 in Jersey and earthquakes tax resident in US $5-8bn: Ireland Deepwater Horizon explosion triggers biggest oil spill in history Marine account started in 1999 Commercial Property Accident & Life formed account started as a new division APUA, based in in 1992 This year we established Hong Kong, forms a In 1986 Beazley Furlonge a local underwriting strategic partnership and Hiscox established presence in the US with Beazley Furlonge and takes over managing in 1997 Syndicate 623 Designed and produced by TeamPublishing www.
co. uk Beazley plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 Beazley plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 Beazley plc 2 Northwood Avenue Northwood Park Santry Demesne, Santry Dublin 9 Ireland Phone: 353 0 1 854 4700 Fax: 353 0 1 842 8481 Registered Number: 102680 Fencing combines discipline, agility and precision all qualities we admire at Beazley.
Beazley has entered into a five year partnership with British Fencing.
Through our sponsorship, we aim to make a meaningful contribution to the continued development of the sport in Britain, both at the highest competitive level and through fencing schools throughout the country.
