Share capital and share repurchases the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other Full details of the Companys share capital are given in note 16 on agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for onward page 43.
Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
date of this report are given in note 17 to the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 59.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights of Resolutions relating to the following items of special business will be the shares or on the transfer of shares, and there are no shares that proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
carry specific rights with regard to the control of the Company.
Resolution 9 Continuation of the Company as an investment trust During the year, the Company repurchased and subsequently placed in The ordinary resolution to be proposed will seek shareholders treasury 225,000 ordinary shares of 5p each, representing 0.1% of the authority that the Company shall continue in being as an investment issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury at the trust.
beginning of the year, for a total consideration of 1,368,000.
At 31 December 2010, the Companys issued share capital was Resolution 10 Authority to allot shares 177,537,242 ordinary shares, excluding 15,474,600 shares held in The Directors may only allot shares for cash if authorised to do so by treasury.
The latest authority to purchase ordinary shares for shareholders in general meeting.
This resolution seeks authority for cancellation or to be held in treasury was granted to the Directors on the Directors to allot shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal 21 April 2010 and expires on 4 May 2011.
The Directors are proposing amount of 482,529 which is equivalent to 9,650,592 ordinary shares that their authority to buy back shares be renewed at the forthcoming of 5p each, and represents 5% of the current issued share capital Annual General Meeting.
including treasury shares and 5.4% of the current issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
The Directors will use this authority when it The main objective of any buy back is to enhance the net asset value is in the best interests of the Company to issue shares for cash.
This per share of the remaining shares and to reduce the absolute level and authority will expire at the conclusion of next years Annual General volatility of any discount to net asset value at which shares may trade.
Meeting, unless renewed prior to that date at an earlier general Although the Investment Manager initiates the buy backs, the policy meeting.
and parameters are set by the Board and reviewed at regular intervals.
The Company intends to raise the cash needed to finance the Resolution 11 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights purchase of ordinary shares either by selling securities in the By law, Directors require specific authority from shareholders before Companys portfolio or by short term borrowing.
allotting new shares or selling shares out of treasury for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their Treasury shares holdings.
Resolution 11 empowers the Directors to allot new shares for The Board has determined that up to 10% of the Companys issued cash or to sell shares which are held by the Company in treasury, shares may be held in treasury and may be subsequently cancelled or otherwise than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis, up to an sold for cash in the market.
This would give the Company the ability to aggregate nominal amount of 482,529 which is equivalent to reissue shares quickly and cost efficiently, thereby improving liquidity 9,650,592 ordinary shares of 5p each and 5% of the Companys issued and providing the Company with additional flexibility in the ordinary share capital, including treasury shares, as at the date of the management of its capital base.
The Board currently intends only to Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Unless renewed at a general authorise the sale of shares from treasury at prices at or above the meeting prior to such time, this authority will expire at the conclusion prevailing net asset value per share plus costs of the relevant sale.
of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2012.
This should result in a positive overall effect on shareholders if shares are bought back at a discount and then sold at a price at or above the Resolution 12 Authority to buy back shares net asset value per share plus costs of the relevant sale.
The resolution to be proposed will seek to renew the authority granted to Directors enabling the Company to purchase its own shares.
The In the interests of all shareholders, the Board will continue to keep the Directors will only consider repurchasing shares in the market if they matter of treasury shares under review.
believe it to be in shareholders interests and as a means of correcting any imbalance between supply and demand for the Companys shares.
Annual General Meeting The following information to be discussed at the forthcoming Under the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the Annual General Meeting is important and requires your immediate maximum price which can be paid shall be the higher of i 5% above attention.
If you are in any doubt about the action you should take, the average of the market values of the ordinary shares for the five you should seek advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, business days immediately preceding the date on which the purchase solicitor, accountant or other financial adviser authorised under the is made and ii the higher of the price quoted for a the last Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended.
independent trade of, and b the highest current independent bid for, any number of ordinary shares on the trading venue where the If you have sold or transferred all of your ordinary shares in the purchase is carried out.
In making purchases, the Company will deal Company, you should pass this document, together with any other only with member firms of the London Stock Exchange.
The Directors accompanying documents, including the form of proxy, at once to are seeking authority to purchase up to 28,932,475 ordinary shares Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2010 21
