Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventeenth Annual General Meeting To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as special of BlackRock World Mining Trust plc will be held at the offices of resolutions: BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited, 33 King William Street, London EC4R 9AS on Wednesday, 4 May 2011 at 11.30 a. m. to Special resolutions transact the following business: 11.
That, in substitution for all existing authorities and subject to the passing of resolution numbered 10 above, the Directors of the Ordinary business Company be and are hereby empowered pursuant to sections 570 1.
To receive the report of the Directors and the financial statements and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity for the year ended 31 December 2010, together with the report of securities as defined in section 560 of the Act, and to sell equity the auditors thereon.
securities held by the Company as treasury shares as defined in section 724 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority granted 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended by the resolution numbered 10 above, as if section 561 1 of the 31 December 2010.
Act did not apply to any such allotments and sales of equity securities, provided that this power: 3.
To declare a final dividend of 6.00p per ordinary share.
a shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General 4.
To re-elect Mr O A G Baring as a Director.
Meeting of the Company in 2012, except that the Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements which 5.
To re-elect Mr C A M Buchan as a Director.
would or might require equity securities to be allotted or sold after such expiry and notwithstanding such expiry the 6.
To re-elect Mr G H Sage as a Director.
Directors may allot and sell equity securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements: 7.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to the Company.
b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities and or the 8.
To authorise the Directors to determine the auditors sale of equity securities held in treasury for cash up to an remuneration.
aggregate nominal amount of 482,529 representing 5% of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share capital of Special business the Company at the date of this notice : and To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as ordinary resolutions: c shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities at a price of not less than the net asset value per share.
That the Company shall continue in being as an investment trust.
That, in substitution for the Companys existing authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares of 5p in the Company 10.
That, in substitution for all existing authorities, the Directors of the Shares, the Company be and it is hereby authorised in Company be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the authorised pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 Act to make market purchases of Shares within the meaning of the Act, to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot section 693 of the Act provided that: relevant securities as defined in that section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 482,529 being 5% of the aggregate nominal a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be amount of the issued share capital of the Company at the date of purchased is 28,932,475 being the equivalent of 14.99% of this notice provided this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Companys issued share capital at the date of this notice : the next Annual General Meeting to be held in 2012 but so that the Company may, before such expiry, make any offer or b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be for a Share shall be 5p, being the nominal value per ordinary allotted pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the authority share: hereby conferred had not expired.
c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall be the higher of i 5% above the average of the market values of the Shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of the purchase as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange and ii the higher of the price quoted for a the last independent trade of, and b the highest current independent bid for, any number of Shares on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out: and Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2010 57 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued d unless renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2012 save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
All Shares purchased pursuant to the above authority shall be either: a held, sold, transferred or otherwise dealt with as treasury shares in accordance with the provisions of the Act: or b cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase.
By order of the Board BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Secretary 24 February 2011 Registered Office: 33 King William Street London EC4R 9AS Notes: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting convened by the above Notice is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of the rights of the member to attend, speak and vote in his place.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
If a member appoints more than one proxy to attend the meeting, each proxy must be appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by the member.
To appoint a proxy you may use the form of proxy enclosed with this annual report.
To be valid, the form of proxy, together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified or office copy of the same, must be completed and returned to the office of the Companys registrar in accordance with the instructions printed thereon as soon as possible and in any event by not later than 11.30 a. m. on 2 May 2011.
Amended instructions must also be received by the Companys registrar by the deadline for receipt of proxies.
Alternatively you can vote or appoint a proxy electronically by visiting www.
You will be asked to enter the Control Number, the Shareholder Reference Number and PIN which are printed on the form of proxy.
The latest time for the submission of proxy votes electronically is 11.30 a. m. on 2 May 2011.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
Any person receiving a copy of this Notice as a person nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person should note that the provisions in Notes 1 to 2 above concerning the appointment of a proxy or proxies to attend the meeting in place of a member, do not apply to a Nominated Person as only shareholders have the right to appoint a proxy.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between the Nominated Person and the member by whom he or she was nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right under such agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights at the meeting.
Nominated persons should also remember that their main point of contact in terms of their investment in the Company remains the member who nominated the Nominated Person to enjoy the information rights or perhaps the custodian or broker who administers the investment on their behalf.
Nominated Persons should continue to contact that member, custodian or broker and not the Company regarding any changes or queries relating to the Nominated Persons personal details and interest in the Company including any administrative matter.
The only exception to this is where the Company expressly requests a response from the Nominated Person.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company by not later than 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the time fixed for the meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at such time.
If the meeting is adjourned, the time by which a person must be entered on the register of members of the Company in order to have the right to attend and vote at the adjourned meeting is 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the time of the adjournment.
Changes to the register of members after the relevant times shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior holder who tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority will be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members of the Company in respect of the relevant joint holding.
Holders of shares through the Savings Schemes are entitled to attend and vote at the meeting if the voting instruction form, which is enclosed with this document, is correctly completed and returned in accordance with the instructions printed thereon.
58 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc 9.
Shareholders who hold their shares electronically may submit their votes through CREST, by submitting the appropriate and authenticated CREST message so as to be received by the Companys registrar not later than 48 hours before the start of the meeting.
Instructions on how to vote through CREST can be found by accessing the following website: www.
Shareholders are advised that CREST and the internet are the only methods by which completed proxies can be submitted electronically.
If you are a CREST system user including a CREST personal member you can appoint one or more proxies or give an instruction to a proxy by having an appropriate CREST message transmitted.
To appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, CREST messages must be received by Computershare ID number 3RA50 not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp generated by the CREST system from which Computershare is able to retrieve the message.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members should contact their CREST sponsor for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings please refer to the CREST manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given discretion as to how the votes subject of those proxies are cast and voting rights in respect of those discretionary proxies, when added to the interest in the Companys securities already held by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding such number of voting rights that he has a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary notifications to the Company and the Financial Services Authority.
As a result, any member holding 3 per cent.
or more of the voting rights in the Company, who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would otherwise have a notification obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, need not make a separate notification to the Company and the Financial Services Authority.
Any question relevant to the business of the meeting may be asked at the meeting by anyone permitted to speak at the meeting.
A shareholder may alternatively submit a question in advance by a letter addressed to the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
Under section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must answer any question a shareholder asks relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting, unless i answering the question would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: ii the answer had already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that, if it is appointing more than one corporate representative, it does not do so in relation to the same shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate representative.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are laid before the meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the members requesting such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditors not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company: i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in the business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business unless: a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, and must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than 22 March 2011, being the date six weeks clear before the meeting and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
Further information regarding the meeting which the Company is required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website in advance of the meeting including this Notice, can be accessed at www.
As at the date of this report, the Companys issued share capital comprised 177,537,242 ordinary shares of 5 pence each, excluding shares held in treasury.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote and therefore the total number of voting rights in the Company on 24 February 2011 is 177,537,242.
No service contracts exist between the Company and any of the Directors, who hold office in accordance with letters of appointment and the Articles of Association.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2010 59
