Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued f Expenses All expenses, including finance costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses have been charged wholly to the revenue column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, except as follows: expenses which are incidental to the acquisition of an investment are included within the cost of the investment.
Details of transaction costs on the purchases and sales of investments are disclosed in note 10 on page 41: expenses are treated as capital where a connnection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
g Taxation Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the financial reporting date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the financial reporting date.
This is subject to deferred tax assets only being recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of the temporary differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the rates applicable to the legal jurisdictions in which they arise.
h Investments held at fair value through profit or loss The Companys investments are classified as held at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with its investment strategy.
All investments are designated upon initial recognition as held at fair value through profit or loss.
Purchases of investments are recognised on a trade date basis.
The sale of assets are recognised at the trade date of the disposal.
Proceeds are measured at fair value which will be regarded as the proceeds of sale less any transaction costs.
The fair value of the financial investments is based on their quoted bid price at the financial reporting date, without deduction for the estimated selling costs.
Unquoted investments are valued by the Directors at fair value using International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
This policy applies to non current asset investments held by the Group.
In order to improve the disclosure of how companies measure the fair value of their financial investments, the disclosure requirements in IFRS 7 have been extended to include a fair value hierarchy.
The fair value hierarchy consists of the following three levels: Level 1 quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability Level 3 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data Under IFRS, the investments in the trading subsidiary are fair valued which is deemed to be the sum of the Statements of Financial Position values.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as Gains or losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Also included within this heading are transaction costs in relation to the purchase or sale of investments.
i Other receivables and other payables Other receivables and other payables do not carry any interest and are short term in nature and are accordingly stated at their nominal value.
j Dividends payable Under IFRS, final dividends should not be accrued in the financial statements unless they have been approved by shareholders before the financial reporting date.
Interim dividends should not be accrued in the financial statements unless they have been paid.
Dividends payable to equity shareholders are recognised in the Statements of Changes in Equity when they have been approved by shareholders in the case of a final dividend, or paid in the case of an interim dividend, and have become a liability of the Group.
36 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
