Shareholder Information Financial calendar The Daily Telegraph under Investment Trusts.
The share price is also The timing of the announcement and publication of the Companys available on the BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited results may normally be expected in the months shown below: BlackRock website at www.
February ISIN SEDOL numbers Annual results and final dividend for year announced.
The ISIN SEDOL numbers and mnemonic codes for the Companys shares are: Annual report and financial statements published.
Ordinary Shares April May ISIN GB0005774855 Annual General Meeting.
L Bloomberg code BRWM LN Dividend paid.
August Share dealing Half yearly figures announced and half yearly financial report Investors wishing to purchase more shares in the Company or sell all published.
or part of their existing holding may do so through a stockbroker.
Most banks also offer this service.
Dividend 2010 The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December For existing shareholders the Companys registrar, Computershare 2010 is 6.00p per share.
Investor Services PLC, has both internet and telephone share dealing services.
To access the internet share dealing log on to Ex-dividend date www-uk.
The shares transferred without the dividend 30 March 2011 telephone share dealing service is available on 0870 703 0084.
To use these services, you will need your shareholder reference Record date number, which is detailed on your share certificate.
last date for registering transfers to receive the dividend 1 April 2011 IIn nt te er rn ne et t d fide ea alliin ng g The fee for this service is 0.5% of the value of each Last date for registering DRIP instructions 14 April 2011 sale or purchase of shares subject to a minimum of 15.
Stamp duty Dividend payment date 11 May 2011 of 0.5% is payable on purchases.
Payment of dividends T Te elle ep ph ho on ne e d fide ea alliin ng g The fee for this service will be 1% of the value of Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to the first-named shareholder the transaction subject to a minimum of 25. at their registered address.
Dividends may also be paid direct into a shareholders bank account via BACSTEL-IP Bankers Automated CREST Clearing Service Telecom Internet Protocol.
This may be arranged The Companys shares may be held in CREST, an electronic system for by contacting the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor uncertificated securities trading.
Services PLC, through their secure website www.
co. uk, on 0870 707 1187 or by completing the Mandate Instructions section Private investors can continue to retain their share certificates and on the reverse of your dividend counterfoil and sending this to the remain outside the CREST system.
Private investors are able to buy Companys registrar, Computershare.
Tax vouchers will be sent to and sell their holdings in the same way as they did prior to the shareholders at their registered address, unless other instructions introduction of CREST, although there may be differences in dealing have been given, to arrive on the payment date.
Dividend reinvestment scheme DRIP Electronic communications Shareholders may request that their dividends be used to purchase Computershare provides a service to enable shareholders to receive further shares in the Company.
Dividend reinvestment forms may be correspondence electronically including annual and half yearly obtained from Computershare Investor Services PLC through their financial reports if they wish.
If a shareholder opts to receive secure website www.
co. uk, or on 0870 707 1187. documents in this way, paper documents will only be available on Shareholders who have already opted to have their dividends request unless electronic submission fails, in which case a hard copy reinvested do not need to reapply.
The last date for registering for this will be mailed to the investors last known address.
service for the forthcoming dividend is 14 April 2011.
Shareholders who opt for this service would receive a Notice of Share price Availability via e-mail from Computershare with a link to the relevant The Companys mid-market ordinary share price is quoted daily in The Financial Times and the Times under Investment Companies and in 54 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc section of the BlackRock website where the documents can be viewed Duration of the Company and printed.
Shareholders are given an opportunity at each Annual General Meeting to vote on an ordinary resolution to continue the life of the Company For more information, to view the terms and conditions and to register for a further twelve months.
for this service, please visit Computershares internet site at www.
com investor you will need your shareholder Nominee code reference number, which is given on your share certificate or tax Where shares are held in a nominee company name, the Company voucher.
undertakes: Electronic proxy voting to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of Shareholders are able to submit their proxy votes electronically via shareholder communications, so long as an indication of quantities Computershares internet site at www.
com using has been provided in advance: their shareholder reference number, control number and a unique identification PIN which will be provided with voting instructions and to allow investors holding shares through a nominee company to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
attend general meetings, provided the correct authority from the nominee company is available: and CREST members who wish to appoint one or more proxies or give an instruction through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service that investors in the BlackRock Investment Trusts Savings Plan and may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST manual.
ISA are automatically sent shareholder communications, including More details are set out in the notes on the Form of Proxy and the details of general meetings, together with a form of direction to Notice of Annual General Meeting.
facilitate voting and to seek authority to attend.
Risk factors Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the necessary As the Company invests worldwide, the value of its shares is also authority to underlying shareholders to attend the Companys general affected by changes in rates of exchange.
The price at which the Companys shares trade on the London Publication of net asset value portfolio analysis Stock Exchange is not the same as their net asset value although The net asset value NAV per share of the Company is calculated they are related and therefore you may realise returns which are daily, with details of the Companys investments and performance lower or higher than NAV performance.
A lack of growth in world industrial production may adversely The daily NAV per share and monthly information are released through affect metal prices.
the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory News Service and are available on the BlackRock website at www.
co. uk its and Deteriorating economic conditions in certain countries may lead to through the Reuters News Service under the code BLRKINDEX, on aggressive exporting of their metal and mineral production page 8800 on Topic 3 ICV terminals and under BLRK on Bloomberg potentially leading to price reductions.
There may be exposure to significant currency, political and Internet nationalisation risks due to the location of the operation of Other details about the Company are also available on the BlackRock companies in which the Company may invest.
The financial statements and other literature are published on the website.
Visitors to the website Shares of companies in the mining sector can prove volatile and need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the this may be reflected in the Companys share price.
preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
Any investment in the Company will involve an above average risk and is suitable only for financially sophisticated investors.
Shareholders can also manage their shareholding online by using Investor Centre, Computershares secure website at Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future www.
The value of your investment in the Company and the income from it can fluctuate as the value of the underlying investments fluctuate.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2010 55 Shareholder Information continued To access Computershares website you will need your shareholder Shareholder enquiries reference number SRN which can be found on paper or electronic The Companys registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC.
communications you have previously received from Computershare.
Certain details relating to your holding can be checked through the Listed below are the most frequently used features of the website.
As a security check, specific information needs to be input accurately to gain access to an Holding enquiry view balances, values, history, payments and individuals account.
This includes your shareholder reference number, reinvestments.
available from your share certificate, tax voucher or other electronic communications you have previously received from Computershare.
Payments enquiry view your dividends and other payment types.
The address of the Computershare website is www.
Alternatively, please contact the registrar Address change change your registered address.
Bank details update choose to receive your dividend payment Changes of name or address must be notified in writing either through directly into your bank account instead of by cheque.
Computershares website, or to the registrar at: e-Comms sign-up choose to receive email notification when your Computershare Investor Services PLC shareholder communications become available instead of paper The Pavilions communications.
Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ Outstanding payments reissue payments using the online replacement service.
General enquiries Enquiries about the Company should be directed to: Downloadable forms including dividend mandates, stock transfer, dividend reinvestment and change of address forms.
The Secretary BlackRock World Mining Trust plc Savings Plan 33 King William Street The Company participates in the BlackRock Investment Trusts Savings London EC4R 9AS Plan, which facilitates both regular monthly investments and Telephone: 020 7743 3000 occasional lump sum investments in the Companys ordinary shares.
Shareholders who would like information on the Savings Plan should Enquiries about the Savings Plan and ISA should be directed to: call BlackRock free on 0800 44 55 22.
Freepost RLTZ-KHUH-KZSB Stocks and shares Individual Savings Accounts ISA BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited ISAs are a tax-efficient method of investment and the Companys PO Box 9036 shares are eligible investments within the BlackRock Investment Trust Chelmsford CM99 2XD stocks and shares Individual Savings Account.
Investors have an Telephone: 0800 44 55 22 annual ISA allowance of 10,200.
Details are available from BlackRock by calling free on 0800 44 55 22.
56 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
