Corporate Governance Background retiring by rotation in accordance with the Companys Articles of The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate Association is Mr Baring.
In addition, any Director who has served governance and is accountable to shareholders for the governance of on the Board for more than nine years will be subject to annual the Companys affairs.
The Board has put in place a framework for re-election.
Mr Buchan and Mr Sage, who have served on the Board corporate governance which it believes is appropriate for an for more than nine years, will retire at the forthcoming Annual General investment trust and which will enable the Company to comply with Meeting and seek re-election.
The Board has considered the positions the relevant provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate of Messrs Baring, Buchan and Sage as part of the evaluation process Governance the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting and believes that it would be in the Companys best interests to Council the FRC in June 2008.
Additionally, as the Company is a propose them for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General member of the Association of Investment Companies the AIC, the Meeting, given their valuable level of contribution.
The Directors Board has taken account of the recommendations of the AICs Code support a planned and progressive renewing of the Board.
of Corporate Governance the AIC Code which complements the Combined Code and provides a framework of best practice for The Board has considered the new provision B.
7.2 in the UK investment trust companies.
Corporate Governance Code published in June 2010 recommending that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual Compliance re-election.
The Board believes that the current election system, with The Board has made the appropriate disclosures in this report to each Director being re-elected to the Board at least every three years ensure the Company meets its continuing obligations.
It should be or re-elected annually if they have served more than nine years, is noted that as an investment trust, most of the Companys day to day sufficient, as there could be risks in respect of continuity and stability responsibilities are delegated to third parties, the Company has no on the Board with annual re-elections.
employees and the Directors are non-executive.
Thus not all of the provisions of the 2008 Combined Code are directly applicable to the The Company does not have a chief executive as day-to-day Company.
management of the Companys affairs is delegated to the Investment Manager.
None of the Directors has a service contract with the The Board considers that the Company has complied with the Company.
The terms of their appointment are detailed in a letter sent provisions contained within the Combined Code throughout this to them when they join the Board.
Copies of these letters are available accounting period, except where explained below, and this statement on request from the Companys registered office.
describes how the relevant principles of governance are applied to the Company.
When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he is provided with all relevant information regarding the Company and his duties and The Board responsibilities as a Director.
In addition, a new Director will also The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors, all of spend some time with representatives of the Investment Manager whom are independent of the Companys Investment Manager.
Their whereby he will become familiar with the various processes which the individual independence, including that of the Chairman, has been Manager considers necessary for the performance of its duties and considered, and this independence allows all of the Directors to sit on responsibilities to the Company.
The Companys policy is to encourage the Companys various committees.
The Board is of the view that Directors to keep up to date and attend training courses on matters length of service will not necessarily compromise the independence or which are directly relevant to their involvement with the Company.
The contribution of directors of an investment trust company, where Directors also receive regular briefings from, amongst others, the continuity and experience can add significantly to the strength of the auditors and Company Secretary regarding any proposed Board.
It is considered that Mr Buchan and Mr Sage, who have each developments or changes in laws or regulations that could affect the served as a Director for over nine years, continue to be independent in Company and or the Directors.
both character and judgement and that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect the judgement of any Director.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Mr Sage has acted as the Senior Independent Director throughout Strategic issues and all operational matters of a material nature are 2010.
The provision of the Combined Code A.
2.1 which relates determined by the Board.
to the combination of the roles of the chairman and chief executive does not apply as the Company has no executive directors.
The The Company has maintained appropriate Directors Liability Insurance Directors biographies, on page 16, demonstrate a breadth of cover throughout the year.
investment, commercial and professional experience which enables them to provide effective strategic leadership and proper governance Boards responsibilities of the Company.
The Board meets at least five times a year and between these meetings there is regular contact with the Investment Manager.
The The Directors retire by rotation at every third Annual General Meeting Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management of and any Directors appointed to the Board since the previous Annual the Company.
It reserves to itself decisions relating to the General Meeting also retire and stand for election.
The Director determination of investment policy, any change in investment strategy, Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2010 25
