Notes to the Financial Statements continued 18.
Risk Management policies and procedures As an investment trust, the Group invests in equities and other investments for the long term so as to achieve its investment objective as stated on page 17.
In pursuing its investment objective, the Group is exposed to a variety of risks that could result in either a reduction in the Groups net assets or a reduction in the revenue available for distribution by way of dividends.
These financial risks, market risk comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and market price risk, liquidity and credit risk, and the Directors approach to the management of them, are set out below.
The Investment Manager, in close cooperation with the Board of Directors, coordinates the Groups risk management.
The objectives, policies and processes for managing these risks are set out below and have not changed from the previous accounting period.
i Market risk The fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument held by the Group may fluctuate due to changes in market prices.
This market risk comprises currency risk see note 18 ii, interest rate risk see note 18 iii and market price risk see note 18 iv.
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing these risks.
The Investment Manager assesses the exposure to market risk when making each investment decision and monitors the overall level of market risk on the whole of the investment portfolio on an ongoing basis.
ii Currency risk A proportion of the Groups assets, liabilities and income are denominated in currencies other than sterling the Groups functional currency, and in which it reports its results.
As a result, movements in exchange rates will affect the sterling value of those items.
At 31 December 2010, the value of non-sterling denominated investments amounted to 1,236,586,000 2009: 888,490,000.
Management of the risk The Investment Manager monitors the Groups exposure to foreign currencies on a daily basis and reports to the Board on a regular basis.
Foreign currency borrowing and forward currency contracts are used to limit the Groups exposure to anticipated future changes in exchange rates which might otherwise adversely affect the value of the portfolio of investments.
Income denominated in foreign currency is converted into sterling on receipt.
The Group does not use financial instruments to mitigate the currency exposure in the period between the time that income is included in the financial statements and its receipt.
44 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
