Corporate Governance continued strategic gearing policy, policy on the buy back and issue of shares, York Mellon International Ltd BNYM, a subsidiary of The Bank of whether to hold shares in treasury, and entering into any material New York Mellon.
The Board also sets investment parameters, such as the acquisition or disposal of substantial interests and the maximum The Board has delegated the exercise of voting rights attaching to the amount that can be invested in unquoted investments.
In addition, securities held in the portfolio to the Investment Manager.
Details of changes relating to the Groups capital structure, approval of circulars the Investment Managers voting policy are set out on page 19. to shareholders and listing particulars, relevant press releases and any significant change in accounting policies or practices must also be Committees of the Board approved by the Board.
A formal schedule of matters specifically As the Board is small and comprises only non-executive Directors it reserved for decision by the Board has been defined.
fulfils the function of the Nomination Committee which will meet when necessary to select and propose suitable candidates for appointment.
The Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Should a vacancy occur or the Board decide to recruit new members, Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that the Board will take into account the size, balance and profile of the Board procedures are followed and that it complies with applicable Board as a whole to identify any areas that need strengthening.
Due to rules and regulations.
Where necessary, in the furtherance of their the specialist nature of the investment mandate, and the difficulty in duties, the Directors may seek independent professional advice at the finding new Directors with knowledge of the mining sector, the existing expense of the Company.
Directors will try to identify suitable individuals from their range of contacts, although other sources, including external search The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps consultants, may also be used as required.
proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and which enable it to A separately chaired Audit & Management Engagement Committee ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act.
has been established and is made up of the independent Directors, It is the Boards responsibility to present a balanced and including the Chairman of the Company.
The Board considers that understandable assessment, which extends to interim and other priceat least one member of the Committee has sufficient recent and sensitive public reports.
relevant financial experience for it to discharge its function effectively.
The Chairman of the Company is a member of this Committee to The Board is also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group enable him to be kept fully informed of any issues which may arise.
and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of The terms of reference of this Committee are available on request and fraud and other irregularities.
on the Investment Managers website at www.
co. uk its under the Literature section and will also be available at each Performance evaluation Annual General Meeting.
In order to review the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors, including the Chairman, the Board carries out an The Committee meets at least twice a year and, amongst other things, annual appraisal process.
The annual evaluation for the year ended examines the effectiveness of the control systems.
The two planned 31 December 2010 has been carried out and took the form of meetings are held prior to the Board meetings to approve the half questionnaires followed by discussions to identify how the yearly and annual results, including the valuation of any unquoted effectiveness of its activities, including its Committees, policies or investments.
The Committee does not consider that as an investment processes might be enhanced.
The results of the evaluation process trust company it needs to hold an additional meeting although this is were presented to and discussed by the Board and it was agreed that kept under review.
the current composition of the Board reflected a suitable mix of skills and experience and that the Board, as a whole, the individual Directors During the year the principal activities of the Audit & Management and its Committees were functioning effectively.
Engagement Committee included: Delegation of responsibilities considering and recommending to the Board for approval the The Board has delegated the following areas of responsibility: contents of the half yearly and annual financial statements and reviewing the external auditors report thereon: Management and administration The management of the investment portfolio and the administration of reviewing the scope, results, cost effectiveness, independence and the Company have been delegated to the Investment Manager.
The objectivity of the external auditors: Investment Manager, operating under guidelines determined by the Board, has direct responsibility for the decisions relating to the day to reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the audit day running of the Company and is accountable to the Board for the and non-audit fees payable to the external auditors and the terms investment, financial and operating performance of the Company.
The of their engagement: Board has final investment authority on unquoted investments.
Custody and settlement services are provided by The Bank of New reviewing and approving the external auditors plan for the following financial year: 26 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
