j Financial assets n Trade and other payables i Classification Trade and other payables are recorded initially at fair value and All Group financial assets are initially recognised and subsequently subsequently at amortised cost.
classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss to reduce accounting mismatches.
These include the financial assets o Provisions which have been acquired from employees and or forfeited as part Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or of deferred compensation awards made on behalf of employees constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than and shown on the Balance Sheet, see note 13. not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Management reassesses the ii Measurement amounts of these provisions at each Balance Sheet date in order to ensure Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on trade-date, that they are measured at the current best estimate of the expenditure the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date.
Any difference or the date on which financial assets are forfeited back to the Group between the amounts previously recognised and the current estimates under the deferred compensation scheme.
Financial assets are initially is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the For provisions for onerous leases, where the effect of the time value of investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due assets are included in other income expense in the Income Statement to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
in the period in which they arise.
p Income recognition k Derivative financial instruments i Revenue i Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Revenue comprises the fair value for the provision of services, net of The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to any value added tax, rebates, and discounts and after the elimination foreign exchange risk and does not hold or issue derivative financial of sales within the Group.
Revenue is recognised as follows: instruments for speculative purposes.
The Group does not designate a Management fees which include all non-performance r elated any derivatives as hedging instruments and does not apply hedge fees, are recognised in the period in which the services accounting.
Derivatives are, therefore, initially recognised at fair are rendered.
value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into b Performance fees are calculated by reference to the appreciation and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each in the net asset value of the relevant fund during the performance Balance Sheet date.
The resulting gains or losses are recognised period.
In accordance with IAS 18, performance fees are only immediately in the Income Statement within other income expense.
recognised once they can be measured reliably.
The Group can Derecognition of derivative assets and liabilities occurs on the expiry only reliably measure a performance fee when the net asset value date of the derivative contract or when contracts have subsequently of the relevant fund can be accurately calculated for the end of been cancelled.
Performance fees are not recognised where performance fee periods end after the Groups Balance Sheet date, since the net asset value could move significantly ii Financial risk factors between these two dates, as a result of market movements.
A qualitative analysis of the financial risks facing the Group is provided in the Risk Management section to this Annual Report.
ii Interest income Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the l Trade receivables effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the at amortised cost.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the interest income.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amounts and the present value of their estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The amount of the iii Sub-lease rental income provision is recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Sub-lease rental income arising from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the related sub-lease agreement.
Sub-lease rental income is netted against rental expenses m Cash and cash equivalents within administrative expenses in the Group Income Statement.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held on call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
iv Directors fee income The Group receives fees in circumstances where employees of the Group act as directors of external investee companies.
The fees are recognised in the period in which the services are rendered.
71 Financial Statements Significant Accounting Policies continued q Fair value estimation iii Deferred compensation scheme The fair value of quoted financial assets is based on current bid The Group also operates a deferred compensation scheme for certain market prices.
employees under which a portion of an employees bonus is invested in units in funds managed by the Group.
The fair value of unlisted financial assets investments in the funds is The amount invested in the nominated fund is initially recognised based on the net asset valuations of the funds at the Balance Sheet date.
in full as a prepayment when the fund units are acquired.
This prepayment is subsequently released over the vesting period as the r Commission payments charge for the deferred compensation scheme is recognised in the The Group operates a number of distribution agreements.
payments made to intermediaries for ongoing services under these distribution agreements are charged to the Income Statement as a At 30 June each year, an estimate is made of the bonus to be cost of sale in the period in which the service is provided.
There are no deferred into fund units.
Until the fund units are purchased, an arrangements where commission payments are not for ongoing services.
accrual is recognised in trade and other payables and a corresponding expense, based on the portion of the vesting period that has elapsed s Leases at that date, is recognised as a deferred compensation charge in Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of the Group Income Statement.
When fund units are subsequently ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
All the Groups purchased, the amount previously shown as an accrual is netted leases are operating leases and the rental charges are included in the against the prepayment recognised at acquisition of the fund units.
Group Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Units in the funds are purchased and held in the name of a nominee As lessee, costs under operating leases are charged to the Group Income company for the benefit of relevant employees.
Units are subject Statement in equal amounts over the periods of the leases.
As and when units are forfeited, they are received to enter into leases are amortised on a straight-line basis over reclassified from a prepayment to a financial asset.
In certain the term of the lease.
circumstances, the Group may also acquire fund units from employees on vesting.
The purchases of such units are recognised as a financial t Employee benefits asset see note 13. i Pension costs The Group operates a defined contribution scheme.
Employees iv Profit-sharing and bonus plans may contribute directly to this scheme.
The Group makes no The Group operates non-contractual bonus pools based on formulas contributions to the scheme and there is therefore no cost in that take into consideration either Group profitability or strategy the Group Financial Statements.
profitability with reference to investment performance, on a calendar year basis.
The formulas are reviewed and approved annually ii Share-based compensation by the Remuneration Committee.
At the end of the financial year, the The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
Group recognises a liability for bonus pools accrued but not yet paid.
These are explained in note 20 of these Group Financial Statements.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the u Foreign currency translation share awards and options granted is recognised as an expense, with i Functional and presentation currency the corresponding credit being recognised in retained earnings within Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Groups shareholders equity.
The total amount to be expensed over the entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
shares and options awarded granted.
At each Balance Sheet date, The Group Financial Statements are presented in Great Britain Pounds the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are GBP, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency expected to become exercisable and the number of shares awarded and the currency in which the Groups assets, liabilities that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of and funding are predominantly denominated.
original estimates, if any, in the Group Income Statement, and a corresponding adjustment to shareholders equity.
ii Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the relevant Group When options are exercised, the proceeds received net of any directly entitys functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal date of the transactions or, where it is more practical, a group entity value and share premium.
may use an average rate for the week or month for all transactions in each foreign currency occurring during that week or month as long as the relevant exchange rates do not fluctuate significantly.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at period end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in other income expense in the Income Statement.
72 BlueBay Asset Management plc iii Group companies w Dividend distribution The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have in the Groups Financial Statements in the period in which the dividend a functional currency different from the presentation currency are is declared and paid or approved by the Companys shareholders.
translated into the presentation currency as follows: x Share capital and share premium a. assets and liabilities for each Balance Sheet are translated at the Ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity.
Incremental costs closing rate at the date of that Balance Sheet: directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown b. income and expenses for each Income Statement are translated in equity as a deduction from the share premium account.
at average exchange rates for the relevant accounting periods: c. all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
y Own shares Employee trusts have been established for the purposes of satisfying certain equity-based awards.
The holdings of these trusts include shares v Taxation own shares that have not vested unconditionally with employees i Income tax of the Group.
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the Group Income Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in Own shares are held for the short-term to meet future award requirements shareholders equity, in which case it is recognised in the Statement and are recorded, at cost, as a deduction from equity.
Own shares are of Changes in Equity.
recognised on a trade date basis.
Own shares are offset against retained earnings in line with Companies Act 2006.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for z Other reserves the year, using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Other reserves comprise deferred tax in respect of tax deductions available Sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of on share-based remuneration arrangements.
The deferred tax recognised previous years.
in the Income Statement in respect of the share schemes is limited to the corresponding cumulative share-based payments expense recognised ii Deferred tax multiplied by the ruling tax rate.
Any excess is taken to other reserves.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on all The deferred tax deduction recognised in other reserves is transferred to taxable and deductible temporary differences at the Balance Sheet retained earnings when utilised against current and prior year tax charges.
date arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
73 Financial Statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements 1.
Segmental reporting a Business segment Under IFRS 8, a condition for identifying an operating segment is that it is a component of the entity whose results are regularly reviewed by the entitys chief operating decision-maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance the management approach.
The chief operating decision-maker for the Group is considered to be the executive directors.
From review of the information made available to, and regularly reviewed by, the executive directors, our conclusion is that the Groups operations are in one business segment, Investment Management, and that there are no other significant classes of business, either individually or in aggregate.
We have considered whether management information at a strategy level or core investment manager level provided to the chief operating decisionmaker indicates different operating segments, but have concluded that none of these segmental approaches, if applied uniformly, would reflect appropriately how the Groups economic resources, and income expense, are currently managed by the executive directors.
Revenue can be broken down as follows: 2010 2009 000s 000s Management fees after rebates 125,376 88,893 Performance fees 28,386 18,537 Total revenue 153,762 107,430 b Geographical segments Although the Groups principal offices are located in London, investment management income is generated in the jurisdiction either where fund product entities are registered or where clients who mandate the Group through segregated accounts are domiciled.
2010 2009 000s 000s Segment revenue Europe Luxembourg 97,837 51,208 United Kingdom 4,307 765 Other Europe 14,379 15,689 The Americas Cayman Islands 35,843 37,270 United States of America 1,298 624 Rest of the World 98 1,874 Total segment revenue 153,762 107,430 The following funds generated revenue exceeding 10% of the overall Groups total revenue: 2010 2009 % of Revenue % of Revenue BlueBay Investment Grade Bond Fund 28.2 15.7 BlueBay High Yield Bond Fund 13.3 11.3 BlueBay Multi-Strategy Fund 17.4 13.5 2010 2009 000s 000s Segment assets fees receivable at 30 June Europe Luxembourg 14,417 15,422 United Kingdom 4,054 229 Other Europe 6,202 3,468 The Americas Cayman Islands 5,019 5,966 United States of America 930 178 Rest of the World 77 1,000 Total segment assets fees receivable at 30 June 30,699 26,263 74 BlueBay Asset Management plc Non-current trade and other receivables, property, plant and equipment expenditure and intangible assets are allocated based on where the assets are located.
2010 2009 000s 000s Non-current trade and other receivables Europe United Kingdom 5,859 2,401 The Americas United States of America 5 Japan 254 210 Total non-current trade and other receivables 6,113 2,616 2010 2009 000s 000s Property, plant and equipment expenditure and intangible assets Europe United Kingdom 499 436 The Americas United States of America 139 Japan 5 Total property, plant and equipment expenditure and intangible assets 504 575 2.
Administrative expenses 2010 2009 Note 000s 000s The following items have been included in administrative expenses: Staff costs 5 66,538 55,055 Depreciation 11 1,768 2,112 Amortisation 12 458 465 Other operating lease rentals payable: Property 4,034 4,636 Computer software 826 582 Property operating lease rentals payable of 4,034,000 is stated net of sub-lease rental income of 246,000 2009: sub-lease income: nil.
Of the sub-lease rental income of 246,000, 25,000 was in respect of a related party 2009: nil.
Please refer to note 25 for further details.
Audit and non-audit fees 2010 2009 000s 000s Fees payable to the Groups auditor for the audit of the Parent Company and the Group Financial Statements 186 142 Fees payable to the Groups auditor for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 30 14 Other services pursuant to legislation 74 73 Taxation services 170 154 Other services 168 114 Total auditors remuneration 628 497 75
