Returns to shareholders This compares to a return on the FTSE 250 Total shareholder return is measured as the Total Return Index of 29.9% for the same change in value of a share plus the value period.
For the period from the date of of the dividends paid, assuming that the admission of BlueBay to the Official List of dividends are reinvested in the Companys the UK Listing Authority to 30 June 2010, shares on the dividend ex date.
For the BlueBay shares generated a total financial year to 30 June 2010, this shareholder return of 6.4% which represented a return of 40.8%.
compares to a return on the FTSE 250 Total Return Index of -4.1% for the same period.
Dividends It is the intention of the Directors to share and represent dividend payments recommend at the Annual General of approximately 29.4 million or Meeting, the payment of a final dividend approximately 82.7% of the Group of 7.5 pence per share to all shareholders profit after tax for the year.
on the register as at 5 November 2010.
This will bring the total dividend per share Subject to shareholder approval, the for the financial year to 15.0 pence per dividend will be paid on 3 December 2010.
Accounting standards and policies The Board and Audit Committee review complexity arise or areas where assumptions and update, where appropriate, the and estimates are significant are: the Groups accounting policies and valuation and amortisation of intangible disclosures.
The Groups principal assets: estimating the future liability for accounting policies are detailed in the bonuses and other employee incentive Financial Statements section on pages schemes, the determination of the 69 to 73.
The preparation of the Financial worldwide provision for income taxes Statements in accordance with IFRSs and estimating of the provision for surplus requires management to exercise its premises based upon discounted future judgement in the process of applying the cash flows.
For further detail refer to pages Groups accounting policies.
The areas 69 to 73 in the Financial Statements section.
where a higher degree of judgement or 33
