Financial Statements Significant Accounting Policies continued e Critical accounting estimates and judgements g Segment reporting The preparation of the Group Financial Statements in conformity with Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief the reported amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the operating decision maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and disclosure of contingent liabilities.
If in the future such estimates and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as assumptions, which are based on managements best judgement at the executive directors.
the date of preparation of the Financial Statements, deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimates and assumptions will be modified h Intangible assets as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change.
The areas Computer software licences acquired are capitalised on the basis of the where a higher degree of judgement or complexity arise, or areas where costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
These assumptions and estimates are significant to the Group Financial costs are amortised using the straight-line method over their estimated Statements, are discussed below.
i Staff costs Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and The Groups compensation year runs on a calendar year basis.
unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will probably At 30 June each year, an estimate is made in the Groups Income generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are Statement of the bonus expense for the six-month period then recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include software development ended, and a corresponding liability, for both cash bonuses and the and associated contractor costs.
Other costs for developing or maintaining deferred compensation scheme expense, is recognised within trade computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
See note t iv below for further details on bonus arrangements and note t iii for further details on the deferred Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised compensation scheme.
on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
The assets residual In addition, the Group makes an estimate of the amount to be values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at expensed for the six-month period for share-based payments.
An assets carrying amount is written down See note t ii for further details.
immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount.
ii Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in different jurisdictions.
The following useful lives have been determined for the intangible assets Judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for acquired during the year and are consistent with the useful lives for income taxes.
There are transactions and calculations for which the intangible assets acquired in prior years: ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different Computer software licences 35 years from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will Software development costs 5 years impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
i Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment is shown at cost, less subsequent iii Onerous leases depreciation and impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly The Group periodically reviews its premises requirements and makes attributable to the acquisition of the assets.
Subsequent costs are provisions where necessary if the Group has no current need for included in an assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, premises to which the Group is already contractually committed as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits under the terms of an operating lease agreement.
The calculation of associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item any required provision requires significant judgement, as the Group can be measured reliably.
All other repair and maintenance expenditures needs to estimate the provision based upon discounted future cash are charged to the Income Statement during the financial period in which outflows due to be paid under the lease less any potential cash they are incurred.
inflows from sub-letting arrangements that the Group is able to negotiate.
These cash flows are then discounted for the remaining Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to reduce the cost lease period.
In estimating these cash flows, the Group consults with of each asset to its residual value over its useful life as follows: external advisers in the relevant location to understand the potential to sub-let the premises, the rental rates which could be achieved and Leasehold improvements 5 years the potential amount and time period of any leasehold inducements Furniture, fixtures and fittings 3 years which may need to be offered to successfully secure a sub-tenant.
Information and communication technology equipment 35 years f Income Statement presentation Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the The Group presents separately on the face of the Income Statement in related asset or to the date of the next major renovation, whichever accordance with IAS 1 paragraph 86 those items which the Directors is sooner.
Exceptional items are defined as those material items which, by virtue of their size or nature, the Group considers should The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if be presented separately in order to aid comparability between periods.
appropriate, at each Balance Sheet date.
An assets carrying amount is These are explained in note 3 to the Financial Statements.
written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in the Group Income Statement.
