Significant Accounting Policies BlueBay Asset Management plc the Company is a public limited c Impact of new accounting standards company which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is domiciled New accounting standards and amendments to existing standards and and incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006. interpretations that became effective during the year have been applied The Group Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2010 comprise by the Group.
The following standards and interpretations were mandatory the Company and its subsidiaries the Group.
for the financial year ended 30 June 2010 and had an impact on the Groups Financial Statements: The investment products sold by the Group are issued by independent i IAS 1 Revised Pr esentation of financial statements Under fund entities for whom the Company acts as the investment manager.
the revised standard, all non-owner changes in equity are shown The fund entities have Boards of Directors comprising a majority of in two statements the Income Statement and the Statement of independent directors, with independent governance and decision making Comprehensive Income and the Statement of Recognised Income powers.
The Group does not have a controlling interest in any of its funds.
The fund entities results, assets and liabilities are therefore separate from ii IFRS 8 Operating Segments IAS 14 has been r eplaced with the Group and are not consolidated into the Group Financial Statements.
IFRS 8, under which entities are only required to identify one set of operating segments rather than the primary and secondary The results of investment management activities are reflected in the Group segments currently required by IAS 14.
Some geographical Financial Statements as performance fees and management fees and information is still required and revenues from each product or associated receivables.
service or group of products or services and revenue from major customers is also required.
iii IFRS 7 Amended Amendment to fair value disclosur es The investment performance of the fund products managed by the Group The amended standard requires the classification of financial is detailed in the Business Review section of the Annual Report, and instruments at fair value into a three-level hierarchy.
The significance represents a key indicator of the Groups overall performance and future of the input determines the classification of the instrument in the sustainability of results.
The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of the The following standards are also effective for the financial year ended Group Financial Statements are summarised below.
These policies have 30 June 2010 however their adoption had no significant impact on the been consistently applied to all the years presented.
Groups Financial Statements: IAS 19 Amended Employee benefits: a Basis of preparation The Group Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IAS 23 Revised Borrowing costs: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, which comprise IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and separate financial statements: standards and interpretations issued by either the International Accounting IAS 32 Amended Financial instruments: Presentation, and IAS 1 Standards Board IASB or the International Financial Reporting Amended Presentation of financial statements: Interpretations Committee IFRIC or their predecessors, as adopted by IFRS 1 Amended First time adoption of IFRS and IAS 27 the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act Amended Consolidated and separate financial statements: 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
IFRS 2 Amended Share-based payments: The Group Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical IFRS 3 Revised Business combinations: cost convention, except for the measurement at fair value of derivative IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements: financial instruments and certain financial assets that are held at fair value IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation: and through profit or loss.
The Group Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, as discussed in the Corporate Governance IFIRC 17 Distributions of non-cash assets to owners.
Report on page 44. d New IFRS standards and interpretations not yet effective b Basis of consolidation nor applied The Group Financial Statements incorporate Financial Statements of The following accounting standards and amendments to standards have the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries been issued by the IASB but are not effective for the year ended 30 June prepared to 30 June each year.
Control exists when the Company has the 2010 and have not been applied in preparing these Financial Statements: power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies i IFRS 9 Financial Instruments not yet endorsed by the EU of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The Financial ii IAS 24 Revised Related Party Disclosur es effective Statements of subsidiaries are included in the Groups Financial Statements 1 January 2011 from the date that control begins to the date that control ceases.
iii Amendment to IFRIC 14 Pr epayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement effective 1 January 2011 and: The subsidiaries of the Company are: iv IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity BlueBay Funds Management Company S. A.
Instruments effective 1 July 2010 BlueBay Asset Management International Limited formerly known as The Group has assessed the impact of these new standards and BlueBay Asset Management Japan Limited interpretations and has concluded that they are not likely to have BlueBay Asset Management USA LLC a significant impact on the Groups results.
Two of the Groups Employee Benefit Trusts are also consolidated in the Group Financial Statements.
Uniform accounting policies are applied across all Group companies and all intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated in full on consolidation.
