BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 13 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Companys main financial instruments comprise: a Cash and cash equivalents that arise directly from the Companys operations: and b Shares held in AllBlue Limited.
14 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The main risks arising from the Companys financial instruments concerns its shares in AllBlue Limited AllBlue and the risks attaching to those shares which are market price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk and increased volatility due to leverage employed by the underlying funds as explained below.
The Company is not exposed to significant foreign exchange risk as each class of Shares in the Company is directly invested in shares of AllBlue denominated in the same corresponding currency.
So far as the Company is concerned, the only risk the Board can monitor and control is the liquidity risk attaching to its ability to realise shares in AllBlue for the purpose of meeting ongoing expenses of the Company.
Thereafter the Board recognises that the Company has via its holding of shares in AllBlue Limited an indirect exposure to the risks summarised below though it must be noted that there is little or nothing which the Board can do to manage each of these risks within AllBlue or the underlying funds in which AllBlue invests the underlying fund s. a Price Risk The success of AllBlues and the underlying funds and, therefore, the Companys activities will be affected by general economic and market conditions, such as interest rates, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws, trade barriers, currency exchange controls and national and international political circumstances.
These factors may affect the level and volatility of securities prices and the liquidity of the underlying funds investments.
Volatility or illiquidity could impair the underlying funds profitability or result in losses.
Details of the Companys Investment Objective and Policy are given on page 3.
70 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 14 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued a Price Risk continued Price sensitivity The Company invests substantially all its assets in AllBlue and does not undertake any significant structural borrowing or hedging activity at the Company level.
Its performance is therefore directly linked to the net asset value of AllBlue, which itself is driven by the net asset values of the underlying funds, each of which hold a large number of positions in listed and unlisted securities.
At 31 December 2010, if the net asset value of AllBlue had been 10% higher with all other variables held constant, the net assets attributable to shareholders for the year would have been 91,374,905 2009: 43,976,086 greater, arising due to the increase in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
If the net asset value of AllBlue had been 10% lower with all other variables held constant, the net assets attributable to shareholders for the year would have been 91,374,905 2009: 43,976,086 lower, arising due to the decrease in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
The sensitivity is higher in 2010 than in 2009 because of an increase in the net financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss at the reporting date.
b Credit Risk The nature of commercial arrangements made in the normal course of business between many prime brokers and custodians means that in the case of any one prime broker or custodian defaulting on its obligations to AllBlue or any of the underlying funds, the effects of such a default may have negative effects on other prime brokers with whom AllBlue or such underlying fund deals.
The underlying funds and, by extension, AllBlue and the Company may, therefore, be exposed to systemic risk when AllBlue or an underlying fund deals with prime brokers and custodians whose creditworthiness may be interlinked.
The assets of AllBlue and the underlying funds may be pledged as margin with prime brokers or other counterparties or held with prime brokers or banks.
In the event of the default of any of these prime brokers, banks or counterparties, AllBlue or the underlying funds may not receive back all or any of the assets pledged or held with the defaulting party.
71 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 14 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued b Credit Risk continued The maximum credit risk to which the Company was exposed at the year end was 913,776,639 2009: 440,591,790.
The main concentration of risk for the Company relates to the investments in AllBlue, as these are the only investments the Company has.
c Liquidity Risk In some circumstances, investments may be relatively illiquid making it difficult to acquire or dispose of them at the prices quoted on the various exchanges.
Accordingly, an underlying funds ability to respond to market movements may be impaired and, consequently, the underlying fund may experience adverse price movements upon liquidation of its investments which may in turn affect the value of AllBlue and hence the Companys investment in AllBlue.
Settlement of transactions may be subject to delay and administrative formalities.
During the year, AllBlue changed from monthly redemptions of shares to quarterly redemptions.
There can be no assurance that the liquidity of the investments of AllBlue and the underlying funds will always be sufficient to meet redemption requests as, and when, made.
Any such lack of liquidity may affect the ability of the Company to realise its shares in AllBlue and the value of Shares in the Company.
For such reasons AllBlues treatment of redemption requests may be deferred in exceptional circumstances including if a lack of liquidity may result in difficulties in determining the net asset value and the net asset value per share in AllBlue.
This in turn would limit the ability of the directors to realise the Companys investments in AllBlue should they consider it appropriate to do so and may result in difficulties in determining the net asset value of a Share in the Company.
The market prices, if any, for such illiquid investments tend to be volatile and may not be readily ascertainable and the relevant underlying fund may not be able to sell them when it desires to do so or to realise what it perceives to be their fair value in the event of a sale.
The size of the underlying funds positions may magnify the effect of a decrease in market liquidity for such instruments.
Changes in overall market leverage, deleveraging as a consequence of a decision by the counterparties with which the underlying funds enter into repurchase reverse repurchase agreements or derivative transactions, to reduce the level of leveraging, or the liquidation by other market participants of the same or similar positions, may also adversely affect the underlying funds portfolios.
72 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 14 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued c Liquidity Risk continued The sale of restricted and illiquid securities often requires more time and results in higher brokerage charges or dealer discounts and other selling expenses than does the sale of securities eligible for trading on national securities exchanges or in the over-the-counter markets.
The underlying funds may not be able readily to dispose of such illiquid investments and, in some cases, may be contractually prohibited from disposing of such investments for a specified period of time.
Restricted securities may sell at a price lower than similar securities that are not subject to restrictions on resale.
The Companys Shares in issue are traded on the London Stock Exchanges Main Market for Listed Securities the LSE.
However, in certain circumstances there may be a limited market for the Shares and it may not be possible for investors to achieve a disposal of their holding within a short time period or for the investor to realise the full anticipated value of the Shares.
The table below details the residual contractual maturities of financial liabilities: As at 31 December 2010 1-3 months Over 1 year Total Accrued expenses 112,756 112,756 Total 112,756 112,756 As at 31 December 2009 1-3 months Over 1 year Total Accrued expenses 83,533 83,533 Total 83,533 83,533 d Interest Rate Risk The prices of securities tend to be sensitive to interest rate fluctuations.
Unexpected fluctuations in interest rates could cause the corresponding prices of long positions and short positions adopted to move in directions which were not originally anticipated.
In addition, interest rate increases generally increase the interest or carrying costs of investments.
However, the Companys investments designated as at fair value through profit or loss are non interest bearing, and therefore are not exposed to interest rate risk.
The Companys own cash balances are not materially exposed to interest rate risk as cash and cash equivalents are held on floating interest rate deposits with banks and the Company does not rely on income from bank interest to meet day to day expenses.
73 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 14 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued e Leverage by underlying funds Certain underlying funds in which the Company may have an economic interest operate with a substantial degree of leverage and are not limited in the extent to which they either may borrow or engage in margin transactions.
The positions maintained by such underlying funds may in aggregate value be in excess of the net asset value of AllBlue.
This leverage presents the potential for a higher rate of total return but will also increase the volatility of AllBlue and, as a consequence, the Company, including the risk of a total loss of the amount invested.
f Capital management The investment objective of the Company is to provide shareholders with consistent long-term capital growth through an investment policy of investing substantially all of its assets in AllBlue or any successor vehicle to AllBlue.
As the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded on the LSE, the Ordinary Shares may trade at a discount to their Net Asset Value per Share.
However, in structuring the Company, the directors have given detailed consideration to the discount risk and how this may be managed.
At the last annual general meeting held pursuant to section 199 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended the 2008 Law, the directors were granted authority to buy back up to 14.99 per cent.
of the Ordinary Shares in issue.
The Companys authority to make purchases of its own issued Ordinary Shares will expire at the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company to be held pursuant to section 199 of the 2008 Law and renewal of such authority will be sought at that next general meeting.
The timing of any purchases will be decided by the Board.
The directors intend that purchases will only be made pursuant to this authority through the market, for cash, at prices below the prevailing net asset value per Share where the directors reasonably believe such purchases will be of material benefit to the Company.
74 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 14 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued f Capital management continued Following approval of the Court in Guernsey, the Company resolved to cancel the amount standing to the credit of its share premium account following Admission.
The amount released on cancellation has been credited as a distributable reserve in the books of account and may be used by the Company for the purpose of funding purchases of its Ordinary Shares as described above and the payment of dividends.
On 1 July 2008 The Companies Guernsey Law, 1994 as amended was replaced by the 2008 Law.
The 2008 Law does not require share premium to be held in a separate account and any premium at which shares are issued can be used for all purposes, including the buy back of Shares and the payment of dividends, provided that the Company would after any distribution still meet the statutory Solvency Test as such is defined in the 2008 Law.
Accordingly, upon the issue of C Shares in August 2008, December 2009 and June 2010 the entire amount of share premium received on the issue of such C Shares was immediately transferred to distributable reserves.
The Companys authorised share capital is such that further issues of new Ordinary Shares could be made.
Subject to prevailing market conditions, the Board may decide to make one or more further such issues or reissues of Ordinary Shares for cash from time to time.
Any further issues of new Ordinary Shares or reissues of Ordinary Shares held in treasury will rank pari passu with Ordinary Shares in issue.
There are no provisions of the Companies Laws 1998 which confer rights of pre-emption in respect of the allotment of Shares.
There are, however, pre-emption rights contained in the Articles, but the directors have been granted the power to issue further Shares on a non-pre-emptive basis for a period concluding on 31 December 2011, unless such power is previously revoked by the Companys shareholders in general meeting pursuant to section 199 of the 2008 Law by a special resolution of shareholders passed on 14 July 2010.
The directors intend to request that the authority to allot Shares on a non-pre-emptive basis is renewed at each subsequent general meeting of the Company.
Unless authorised by shareholders, the Company will not issue further Ordinary Shares or re-issue Ordinary Shares out of treasury for cash at a price below the prevailing Net Asset Value per Share unless they are first offered pro-rata to existing shareholders.
