BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2010 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and applicable Guernsey law.
The financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis except for the measurement at fair value of unquoted financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss.
The financial statements are presented in Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
The following Standards or Interpretations have been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board but not yet adopted by the Company: IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendments enhancing disclosures about transfers of financial assets effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
IFRS9 Financial Instruments Classification and Measurement effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Revised definition of related parties effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010. b Going concern As described in Note 9, should the average 12 month discount at which the Shares of any class trade to their net asset value exceed 5% of net asset value per Share, the Company is obliged to offer a continuation vote to class shareholders.
The Company triggered its rolling 12 month discount floor provision for each of the Sterling, Euro and US Dollar Share classes, by reference to the final NAV as at 30 April 2009, 27 February 2009 and 31 March 2009, respectively, although it is not expected to trigger the discount provisions in 2011.
In accordance with the Articles of Incorporation of the Company, continuation votes were proposed for all three classes of Shares by way of ordinary resolutions at separate class meetings held on 12 August 2009 and each continuation vote was passed.
