BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued meet periodically with major shareholders.
The directors are always available to enter into dialogue with shareholders and make themselves available for such purpose whenever required.
The Company believes such communications to be important.
The Investment Manager of AllBlue and the Companys Corporate Broker meet regularly with the Companys major shareholders and reports are provided at least quarterly to the Board of directors on those shareholders views about the Company and any issues or concerns they might have.
The Company also engaged Dexion Capital plc during recent fund raisings to act as an additional point of contact for shareholders.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Auditor Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as Auditor.
A resolution proposing its reappointment will be submitted at the Companys forthcoming general meeting.
Going Concern Whilst it is not currently anticipated that continuation votes will need to be put to any class of shareholders of the Company in the foreseeable future, the Board cannot be certain that the requirement for one or more continuation votes will not be triggered and, if continuation votes were triggered, it cannot be confirmed that any or all of such continuation votes would be passed.
Notwithstanding such uncertainty, the financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis in light of the Boards assessment of: shareholders appetite to continue their investments in the Company: the anticipated low level of redemptions which might result if a tender offer was made to all shareholders: the continuing viability of the Company on both a reduced net asset and cost base: and the expectation of the directors that the Company will continue for the foreseeable future.
By order of the Board Richard Crowder Jonathan Hooley Director Director 1 April 2011 34
