BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a General Meeting the Meeting of the voting members of BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company will be held at Anson Place, Mill Court, La Charroterie, St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 1EJ on Tuesday 19 July 2011 at 10.00 a. m. to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of the Company: Ordinary Business: to be proposed as ordinary resolutions 1.
To receive the Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 December 2010.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor to the Company, to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting to be held in 2012 under section 199 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended the Law, and to authorise the directors to determine its remuneration.
To re-elect as a director Mr Richard Crowder.
To re-elect as a director Mr Jonathan Hooley.
To re-elect as a director Mr John Le Prevost.
To re-elect as a director Mr Paul Meader.
To re-elect as a director Mr Andrew Dodd.
Special Business: to be proposed as an ordinary resolution 8.
To resolve as an ordinary resolution that the Company be authorised, in accordance with section 315 1 a of the Law, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 316 of the Law of ordinary shares of no par value each, whether denominated in Sterling, Euros or US Dollars Shares, and to cancel such Shares or hold such Shares as treasury shares, provided that: i the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99 per cent.
of each class of Shares in issue on the date on which this resolution is passed: ii the maximum price which may be paid for a Share shall be the higher of a an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market quotation for a Share of the relevant class on the relevant market for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Shares are purchased and b the higher of the price of the last independent trade and highest current bid on the London Stock Exchange when the purchase is carried out: iii the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 1 pence, 1 Euro cent or 1 US Dollar cent as the case may be: and iv unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2012, under section 199 of the Law, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Shares under such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
80 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING continued Special Business: to be proposed as a special resolution 9.
To resolve that the pre-emption rights granted to Shareholders pursuant to article 12 2 of the Articles of Association of the Company the Articles be disapplied in respect of up to 500,000,000 Shares for a period concluding on 31 December 2012, unless such resolution is previously revoked by the Companys shareholders in general meeting.
For the purpose of this resolution, capitalised terms shall have the same meaning as set out in the Articles.
Rules for an Adjournment: If the Meeting falls to be adjourned because it is not quorate, it will be adjourned to the same time and place five business days later, whereupon those shareholders then present in person, by their representative or by proxy shall form the quorum.
In the event of any such adjournment the Company will announce the adjournment via a regulatory information service but no notification will be sent directly to shareholders.
By order of the Board Registered Office: BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Anson Place Registered in Guernsey with registered number 44704.
Mill Court La Charroterie St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 1EJ Date: 28 April 2011 81 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING continued Notes: Ordinary Resolution: To be passed this type of resolution requires a simple majority of the votes cast by those shareholders voting in person or by proxy at the Meeting to be voted in favour of the resolution.
Special Resolution: To be passed, this type of resolution requires that a majority of not less than three-quarters of all the votes cast by those shareholders voting in person or by proxy at the Meeting to be cast in favour of the resolution.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to speak and vote instead of them.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude members from attending or voting at the Meeting if they so wish.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
The Form of Proxy should be completed in accordance with the instructions set out therein and sent, together with the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, so as to reach the Companys agent, for this purpose being, Anson Registrars Limited, Anson Place, Mill Court, La Charroterie, St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 1EJ, not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the Meeting.
All persons recorded on the register of shareholders as holding shares in the Company as at 10.00 a. m. on 15 July 2011 or, if the Meeting is adjourned, as at 48 hours before the time of any adjourned Meeting, shall be entitled to attend and vote either in person or by proxy at the Meeting and shall be entitled to one vote per share held.
Where there are joint registered holders of any shares such persons shall not have the right of voting individually in respect of such shares but shall elect one of their number to represent them and to vote whether in person or by proxy in their name.
In default of such election the person whose name stands first on the register of shareholders shall alone be entitled to vote.
Where there are joint participants in respect of any share such persons shall not have the right of voting individually in respect of such share but shall elect one of their number to represent them and to vote whether in person or by proxy in their name.
In default of such election the participant whose interests are first notified to the Company shall alone be entitled to vote.
On a poll votes may be given either personally or by proxy and a shareholder entitled to more than one vote need not use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses in the same way.
Any corporation which is a shareholder may by resolution of its directors or other governing body authorise such person as it thinks fit to act as its representative at the Meeting.
Any person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise on behalf of the corporation which he represents the same powers other than to appoint a proxy as that corporation could exercise if it were an individual shareholder.
None of the directors has a Contract of Service with the Company.
