BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2010 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued b Going concern continued The Company has adequate financial resources and as a consequence, the directors believe the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial information.
c Taxation The Company has been granted exemption under the Income Tax Exempt Bodies Guernsey Ordinance, 1989 from Guernsey Income Tax, and is charged an annual fee of 600. d Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
e Interest income Interest income is accounted for on an accruals basis.
f Share issue costs The Share issue costs borne by the Company are recognised in the statement of changes in net assets attributable to shareholders, as the Companys Ordinary Shares have no fixed redemption date.
g Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are defined as call deposits and short term deposits readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of changes in value, together with bank overdrafts.
For the purposes of the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and deposits at bank, together with bank overdrafts.
h Investments All investments are designated upon initial recognition as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Investments are initially recognised on the date of purchase on trade date basis at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given, excluding transaction costs associated with the investment, with unrealised gains and losses on investments arising from change in fair value from prior years recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
