How to Invest As well as investing in British Assets Trust plc directly through a stockbroker, you can enjoy some additional benefits by investing through one of the savings plans run by F&C Management Limited F&C.
You can enjoy the convenience of making regular savings by Direct Debit, take advantage of our tax-efficient ISA wrapper, receive a simple statement every six months and let us automatically reinvest your dividends for you.
F&C Private Investor Plan F&C Child Trust Fund CTF A flexible, low cost way to invest with a lump sum F&C is a leading provider of child trust funds.
from 500 or regular savings from 50 a month.
Suitable for children born between 1 September 2002 and 31 December 2010.
F&C lnvestment Trust ISA F&C Childrens lnvestment Plan Invest up to 10,200 tax-efficiently each year with Suitable for older children ineligible for a CTF, or if a lump sum from 500 or regular savings from you need access to the funds before the child is 50 a month.
You can also transfer any existing 18.
This flexible plan can easily be written under ISAs.
trust to help reduce inheritance tax liability.
Investments can be made from a 250 lump sum or 25 a month.
Potential investors are reminded that the value of investments and the income from them may go down as well as up and you may not receive back the full amount originally invested.
Tax rates and reliefs depend on the circumstances of the original investor.
Low Charges All the plans are low cost and flexible.
When you buy or sell shares in these plans the dealing fee is only 0.2 per cent.
Government stamp duty of 0.5 per cent also applies on purchases where applicable.
There are no initial or exit charges.
The only annual management fee is on the ISA, which is 60 VAT no matter how many ISAs you take out annually with F&C, or how many lSAs you transfer.
The F&C Child Trust Fund has no initial charges, dealing charges or annual management fee.
How to Invest For more information on any of these products, please either: Contact F&Cs Investor Services Team by Calling us on: 0800 136 420 Emailing us on: info@fandc.
com Contact our Existing plan holders enquiry line by Calling us on: 0845 600 3030 Emailing us on: investor.
com Write to us at: F&C Plan Administration Centre Block C Western House Lynch Wood Business Park Lynch Wood Peterborough PE2 6BP Calls may be recorded.
The above has been approved by F&C Management Limited which is a member of the F&C Asset Management Group and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
Stock market and currency movements may cause thevalue of shares and the income from them to fall as well as rise and investors may not get .
