Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the such steps as are reasonably open to them to Annual Report and the financial statements in safeguard the assets of the Company and to accordance with applicable law and regulations.
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors financial statements for each financial year.
Under are also responsible for preparing a Directors that law they have elected to prepare the financial Report including a Business Review, a Directors statements in accordance with UK Accounting Remuneration Report and a Corporate Governance Standards.
The financial statements are required by Statement.
law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs The Directors are responsible for the maintenance of the Company and of the profit or loss of the and integrity of the corporate and financial Company for that period.
information included on the Companys website.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and are required to: dissemination of financial statements may differ from select suitable accounting policies and then legislation in other jurisdictions.
apply them consistently: We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the financial statements, prepared in accordance state whether applicable UK Accounting with the applicable set of accounting standards, Standards have been followed, subject to any give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, material departures disclosed and explained in financial position, profit and cash flows of the the financial statements: and Company: and prepare the financial statements on the going the Report of the Directors includes a fair review concern basis unless it is inappropriate to of the development and performance of the presume that the Company will continue in business and the position of the Company business.
together with a description of the principal risks The Directors are responsible for keeping proper and uncertainties that it faces.
accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the On behalf of the Board Company and enable them to ensure that its Lynn Ruddick financial statements comply with the Companies Act Chairman 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking 15 November 2010 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 47
