55 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the One Hundred and Twenty First Annual To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as Special General Meeting of British Empire Securities and General Trust plc will be Resolutions: held at Grocers Hall, Princes Street, London EC2R 8AD at 12.00 noon on Thursday 16 December 2010 to consider the following business: 7.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 6 above, the Directors of the Company be and are hereby generally authorised and empowered Ordinary Business pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the 1.
To receive and adopt the financial statements of the Company for the Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act financial year ended 30 September 2010 together with the Reports of including the grant of rights to subscribe for, or to convert any the Directors and the Auditors.
securities into, Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares and the sale of Ordinary Shares held by the 2.
To approve a final Ordinary Dividend of 5.7 pence per Ordinary Share.
Company in treasury wholly for cash pursuant to any existing authority given in accordance with Section 551 of the Act, as if Section 561 of 3.
To re-elect Mr John May as a Director of the Company.
the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: 4.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditor and authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of such securities by way of rights to holders of Ordinary Shares on the 5.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report.
register of members of the Company on a fixed record date in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their respective Special Business holdings of Ordinary Shares but subject to such exclusions or other To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an Ordinary arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in Resolution: relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems arising under the laws of, or the requirements of, 6.
THAT, the Directors of the Company be and are hereby generally and any territory or any regulatory or governmental body or authority or unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the stock exchange: and Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the capital of the b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above Company Ordinary Shares and to grant rights to subscribe for or of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 800,400 to convert any security into Ordinary Shares in the Company up to a being approximately 5 per cent of the equity share capital currently in maximum of 23,996,005 Ordinary Shares provided that such authority issue: and such authority shall expire on the date of the next Annual shall expire on the date which is 18 months after the date of the General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011, save that the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2011, save that the would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements which expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of would or might require Ordinary Shares to be allotted, or rights to be such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had granted, after such expiry and the Directors may allot Ordinary Shares, not expired.
or grant such rights, in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired: and all unexercised 8.
THAT, the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorities previously granted to the Directors to allot Ordinary Shares authorised for the purposes of Section 701 of the Companies Act be and are hereby revoked.
2006 the Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares either for cancellation or to hold as treasury shares within the meaning of Section 724 of the Act provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 23,996,005: b the Directors be authorised to determine at their discretion that any Ordinary Shares purchased be cancelled or held by the Company as treasury shares save that the maximum number of Ordinary Shares held in treasury shall not exceed 10 per cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company at any time: c the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 10 pence exclusive of associated expenses : 56 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued d the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall Notes equate to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations 1.
Attending the Annual General Meeting in person of the Ordinary Shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the If you wish to attend the Annual General Meeting in person, you should London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately sign the attendance card enclosed with this document and hand it to the preceding the date on which the relevant share is contracted to be Companys registrars on arrival at the Annual General Meeting.
purchased exclusive of associated expenses : and 2.
Appointment of Proxy e unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their conferred shall expire on the date which is 18 months after the date of rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
the passing of this resolution save that the Company may prior to such A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual expiry enter into a contract or arrangement to purchase Ordinary General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the Shares under this authority which will or may be completed or rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
executed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority and may A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract or arrangement as if the authority hereby conferred had not expired.
Appointment of Proxy Using a Proxy Form A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
Where two or more valid appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in relation By Order of the Board to the same meeting, the one which is last sent shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others.
If the Company is unable to determine which is last sent, the one which is last received shall be so TR Smith treated.
If the Company is unable to determine either which is last sent or for and on behalf of which is last received, none of such appointments shall be treated as valid Phoenix Administration Services Limited in respect of that share.
Secretary To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must Springfield Lodge, be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand Colchester Road, at the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Chelmsford, Essex CM2 5PW Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6RH by 12 noon on Tuesday 15 November 2010 14 December 2010.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraph 8 below will not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
If you require additional proxy forms, please contact the Registrars helpline on 0871 384 2490 44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Phone calls to this number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other providers costs may vary.
57 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 4.
Appointment of Proxy by Joint Shareholders 8.
CREST Members In the case of joint shareholders, where more than one of the joint CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the shareholders purports to appoint one or more proxies, only the purported CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have shareholders appear in the Companys register of members in respect appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or of the joint shareholding, with the first named being the most senior.
voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Nominated Persons Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual available Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or via www.
The message, regardless of whether it does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA 19 by The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment 12 noon on Tuesday 14 December 2010.
For this purpose, the time of of proxies does not apply to Nominated Persons as such rights can only receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp be exercised by registered shareholders of the Company.
applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the 6.
Entitlement to Attend and Vote manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and for proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may appointee through other means.
cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6.00pm on Tuesday 14 December 2010 or, in the event of CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting any adjournment, 6.00pm on the date which is two days before the time of service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the person to attend and vote at the meeting.
input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal 7.
Issued Share Capital and Total Voting Rights member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service As at 15 November 2010 the Companys issued share capital consisted of provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s 160,080,089 Ordinary Shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the voting take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is rights in the Company as at 15 November 2010 equate to a total of transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Meeting or any related documents including the Form of Proxy to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
58 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 9.
Corporate Members Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Rights to publish statements under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
Questions and Answers Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Information on the Companys website In accordance with section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Companys website www.
