CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES i Basis of preparation and presentation of the financial statements ii Basis of consolidation Compliance with applicable law and IFRS The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in of British Telecommunications plc the company and its accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS subsidiaries, and they incorporate its share of the results of joint Regulation and International Accounting Standards IAS and ventures and associates using the equity method of accounting.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by another entity, known interpretations, as adopted by the European Union.
The consolidated as the parent.
Control is the power to govern the financial and financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued by the operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its International Accounting Standards Board.
A joint venture is an entity that is jointly controlled by two or more Accounting convention entities.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the over an economic activity, and exists only when the strategic historical cost convention, modied for the revaluation of certain financial and operating decisions relating to the activity require financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
An associate is an entity over which another entity has significant Presentation of specic items inuence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint The groups income statement and segmental analysis separately venture.
significant inuence is the power to participate in the identify trading results before significant one-off or unusual items financial and operating policy decisions of an entity but is not termed specic items.
This is consistent with the way that financial control or joint control over those policies.
performance is measured by management and reported to the Board The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are and the Operating Committee of BT Group plc and assists in providing consolidated from and up to the date of change of control.
Where a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the group.
The necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of directors believe that presentation of the groups results in this way is subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the accounting relevant to an understanding of the groups financial performance as policies used in line with those used by the group.
All intra-group specic items are significant one-off or unusual in nature and have transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on little predictive value.
Furthermore, the group considers a columnar consolidation.
presentation to be appropriate, as it improves the clarity of the Investments in associates and joint ventures are initially recognised presentation and is consistent with the way that financial at cost.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying value of the groups performance is measured by management and reported to the Board investment in associates and joint ventures includes the groups share and the Operating Committee of BT Group plc.
Specic items may not of post acquisition reserves, less any impairment in the value of be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
The income statement reects the groups share of Items which have been considered to be significant one-off or the results of operations after tax of the associate or joint venture.
unusual in nature include disposals of businesses and investments, business restructuring programmes, asset impairment charges, iii Revenue property rationalisation programmes and the settlement of multiple Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or tax years in a single settlement.
Specic items for the current and receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of prior years are disclosed in note 5. discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue from the rendering of services and sale of equipment is recognised when it is probable that the Critical accounting estimates and key judgements economic benets associated with a transaction will ow to the group The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally and the amount of revenue and associated costs can be measured accepted accounting principles requires management to make reliably.
Where the group acts as an agent in a transaction, it estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets recognises revenue net of directly attributable costs.
and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of Services revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results Revenue arising from separable installation and connection services is could differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Revenue from the rental of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised evenly estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are over the period to which the charges relate.
Revenue from calls is disclosed on pages 39 and 40 in Critical accounting estimates and recognised at the time the call is made over the groups network.
Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for access to broadband and other internet access or voice services, are Implementation of new accounting standards recognised as revenue as the service is provided.
Revenue arising With effect from 1 April 2009, the group adopted the amendment to from the interconnection of voice and data trafc between other IFRS 2 Share-based payment Vesting Conditions and telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit Cancellations, IFRS 8 Operating Segments, IAS 1 Revised, across the groups network.
Presentation of Financial Statements, IAS 23 Revised Borrowing costs, minor amendments to a number of other accounting Equipment sales standards and several new interpretations.
The adoption of the Revenue from the sale of peripheral and other equipment is recognised amendment to IFRS 2 and IAS 1 Revised has resulted in the when all the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred restatement of comparative information.
Further details are provided to the buyer, which is normally the date the equipment is delivered and on page 40. accepted by the customer.
Composition of the group The groups principal operating subsidiaries and associate are detailed on page 103.
Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 33 Long-term contractual arrangements cost of an asset are recognised in the income statement on a straight Revenue from long-term contractual arrangements is recognised line basis over the useful life of the asset.
based on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according to vi Leases the nature of the contract.
For long-term services contracts, revenue The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the contract.
is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an However, if the performance pattern is other than straight line, assessment of whether the fullment of the arrangement is revenue is recognised as services are provided, usually on an output or dependent on the use of a specic asset or assets and whether the consumption basis.
For xed price contracts, including contracts to arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
design and build software solutions, revenue is recognised by Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group holds reference to the stage of completion, as determined by the proportion substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as of costs incurred relative to the estimated total contract costs, or other finance leases.
measures of completion such as the achievement of contract Finance lease assets are capitalised at the commencement of the milestones and customer acceptance.
In the case of time and materials lease term at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease contracts, revenue is recognised as the service is rendered.
payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
The obligations Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future arrangements are expensed as incurred.
An element of costs incurred periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are subsequently in the initial set up, transition or transformation phase of the contract measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
If a are deferred and recorded within non current assets.
These costs are sale and leaseback transaction results in a finance lease, any excess of then recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over sale proceeds over the carrying amount is deferred and recognised in the remaining contractual term, unless the pattern of service delivery the income statement over the lease term.
indicates a different prole is appropriate.
These costs are directly Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are attributable to specic contracts, relate to future activity, will held by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Rentals are generate future economic benets and are assessed for recoverability charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the on a regular basis.
If a sale and leaseback transaction results in an The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of total operating lease, any profit or loss is recognised in the income expected contract revenues and costs, as well as reliable statement immediately, except where a proportion of the profit or measurement of the progress made towards completion.
Unless the loss is deferred or amortised because the sale price was not equal to financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with reasonable fair value.
certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In such circumstances, revenue is recognised equal to the costs incurred to date, to the vii Foreign currencies extent that such revenue is expected to be recoverable.
Recognised Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups revenue and profits are subject to revisions during the contract if the subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic assumptions regarding the overall contract outcome are changed.
environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is recorded in the The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, the period in which such revisions become likely and can be estimated.
presentation currency of the group.
Where the actual and estimated costs to completion exceed the Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional estimated revenue for a contract, the full contract life loss is currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the recognised immediately.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary elements that have value to a customer on a standalone basis, assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end revenue is recognised for each element as if it were an individual exchange rates are recognised in the income statement in the line contract.
The total contract consideration is allocated between the which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or separate elements on the basis of relative fair value and the transaction.
Where monetary items form part of the net investment appropriate revenue recognition criteria are applied to each element in a foreign operation and are designated as hedges of a net as described above.
investment or as cash ow hedges, such exchange differences are recognised in equity.
iv Other operating income On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings are Other operating income is income generated by the group that arises translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of from activities outside of the provision of communication services and foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates of equipment sales.
Items reported as other operating income include exchange for the year unless this average is not a reasonable income from repayment works, proceeds from scrap and cable approximation of the cumulative effects of the rates prevailing on the recovery, income generated by our eet operations, income from transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated government grants, profits and losses on the disposal of business at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising operations and property, plant and equipment and income generated on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate component of from the exploitation of our intellectual property.
In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and v Government grants liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative Government grants are recognised initially as deferred income at their translation difference associated with the undertaking in the fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be translation reserve is charged or credited to the gain or loss on received and the group will comply with the conditions associated disposal recognised in the income statement.
Grants that compensate the group for expenses incurred are recognised in the income statement within other operating income in the same periods in which the associated expenditure is recognised.
Grants that compensate the group for the 34 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Accounting policies viii Business combinations Subscriber acquisition costs The purchase method of accounting is used for the acquisition of Subscriber acquisition costs are expensed as incurred, unless they meet subsidiaries, in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
On the criteria for capitalisation, in which case they are capitalised and transition to IFRS, the group elected not to apply IFRS 3 amortised over the shorter of the expected customer life or contractual retrospectively to acquisitions that occurred before 1 April 2004. period.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is therefore treated as follows: Estimated useful economic lives Goodwill which arose after 1 April 2004: included in the balance The estimated useful economic lives assigned to the principal sheet at original cost, less any provisions for impairment.
This categories of intangible assets are as follows: goodwill is not amortised.
Goodwill which arose between 1 January 1998 and 1 April 2004: Computer software 2 to 5 years included in the balance sheet at original cost, less accumulated Telecommunication licences 1 to 5 years amortisation to the date of transition to IFRS and less any Brands, customer lists and customer relationships 3 to 15 years provisions for impairment.
This goodwill is not amortised after the date of transition to IFRS.
x Research and development Goodwill which arose before 1 January 1998: written off directly Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement in the to retained earnings.
period in which it is incurred.
On acquisition of a subsidiary, fair values are attributed to the Development expenditure, including the cost of internally developed identiable net tangible and intangible assets acquired.
The excess of software, is recognised in the income statement in the period in which it the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of is incurred unless it is probable that economic benets will ow to the the identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost group from the asset being developed, the cost of the asset can be of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the groups share of the reliably measured and technical feasibility can be demonstrated.
identiable net assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly Capitalisation ceases when the asset being developed is ready for use.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the gain or loss Research and development costs include direct labour, on disposal includes the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the contractors charges, materials and directly attributable overheads.
Goodwill previously written off to retained earnings is not recycled to the income statement on disposal of the related xi Property, plant and equipment subsidiary.
Property, plant and equipment is included in the balance sheet at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment ix Intangible assets losses.
Identiable intangible assets are recognised when the group controls On disposal of property, plant and equipment, the difference the asset, it is probable that future economic benets attributable to between the sale proceeds and the net book value at the date of the asset will ow to the group and the cost of the asset can be disposal is recorded in the income statement.
All intangible assets, other than goodwill and indefinite lived assets, are amortised over their useful economic life.
Cost The method of amortisation reects the pattern in which the assets Included within the cost for network infrastructure and equipment are expected to be consumed.
If the pattern cannot be determined are direct labour, contractors charges, materials and directly reliably, the straight line method is used.
Goodwill Depreciation Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment on a fair value of the groups share of the identiable net assets including straight line basis from the time the asset is available for use, so as to intangible assets of the acquired subsidiary.
Goodwill is reviewed write off the assets cost over the estimated useful life taking into annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is not subject to impairment losses.
The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are as follows: Computer software Computer software comprises computer software purchased from Land and buildings third parties, and also the cost of internally developed software.
Freehold buildings 40 years Computer software purchased from third parties and internally Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of developed software is initially recorded at cost.
lease or 40 years, whichever is the shorter Telecommunication licences Network infrastructure and equipment Licence fees paid to governments, which permit telecommunication Transmission equipment: activities to be operated for dened periods, are initially recorded at Duct 40 years cost and amortised from the time the network is available for use to Cable 3 to 25 years the end of the licence period.
Fibre 5 to 20 years Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years Brands, customer lists and customer relationships Payphones and other network equipment 2 to 20 years Intangible assets acquired through business combinations are Other recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Assumptions are used Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years in estimating the fair values of acquired intangible assets and include Computers and ofce equipment 3 to 6 years managements estimates of revenue and profits to be generated by the acquired businesses.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 35 useful lives are reassessed annually and, if necessary, changes are approximating the terms of the groups obligations.
The calculation is recognised prospectively.
performed by a qualied actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The net obligation or asset recognised in the balance sheet is xii Borrowing costs the present value of the dened benefit obligation less the fair value In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets for which of the plan assets.
the commencement date for capitalisation is on or after 1 April 2009, The income statement charge is allocated between an operating and which take more than 12 months to complete, the group charge and net finance expense or income.
The operating charge capitalises borrowing costs during the construction phase as part of reects the service cost which is spread systematically over the the cost of that asset.
Previously, the group immediately recognised working lives of the employees.
The net finance charge reects the all borrowing costs as an expense in the income statement.
The unwinding of the discount applied to the liabilities of the plan, offset change in accounting policy was due to the adoption of IAS 23 by the expected return on the assets of the plan, based on conditions Borrowing Costs Revised.
prevailing at the start of the year.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in xiii Asset impairment non financial assets which they occur and are presented in the statement of Intangible assets with nite useful lives and property, plant and comprehensive income.
equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in Actuarial valuations of the main dened benefit plan are carried circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate that the out by an independent actuary as determined by the Trustee at carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When an impairment test is intervals of not more than three years, to determine the rates of performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the contribution payable.
The pension cost is determined on the advice of higher of the net present value of the expected future cash ows the groups actuary, having regard to the results of these Trustee value in use of the relevant cash generating unit and the fair value valuations.
In any intervening years, the actuaries review the less cost to sell.
continuing appropriateness of the contribution rates.
Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are The group also operates dened contribution pension schemes reviewed for impairment at least annually.
and the income statement is charged with the contributions payable.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
If a cash generating unit is impaired, provision is made to reduce xvii Share-based payment the carrying amount of the related assets to their estimated The ultimate parent of BT plc, BT Group plc, has a number of equity recoverable amount, normally as a specic item.
Impairment losses settled share-based payment arrangements, under which the group are allocated rstly against goodwill, and secondly on a pro rata basis receives services from employees as consideration for equity against intangible and other assets.
instruments share options and shares of the group.
Equity settled Where an impairment loss has been recognised against an asset, it share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the may be reversed in future periods where there has been a change in effect of non market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant, the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount since the but including any market-based performance criteria and the impact last impairment loss was recognised, but only to the extent that the of non-vesting conditions for example the requirement for assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that employees to save.
The fair value determined at the grant date is would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on no impairment loss had been recognised.
This does not apply for the groups estimate of the options or shares that will eventually vest goodwill, for which an impairment loss may not be reversed in any and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using either the Binomial pricing model or the Monte Carlo model, whichever is most appropriate to the award.
xiv Inventory The group adopted IFRS 2 Share-based payment Vesting Inventory mainly comprises items of equipment held for sale or rental Conditions and Cancellations, with effect from 1 April 2009.
amendment claries that only service and performance conditions Equipment held and consumable items are stated at the lower of are vesting conditions.
Any other conditions are non-vesting cost and estimated net realisable value, after provisions for conditions which have to be taken into account to determine the fair obsolescence.
Cost is calculated on a first-in-first-out basis.
value of equity instruments granted.
In the case that an award or option does not vest as a result of a failure to meet a non-vesting xv Termination benets condition that is within the control of either counterparty, this is Termination benets leaver costs are payable when employment is accounted for as a cancellation.
Cancellations must be treated as terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an employee accelerated vesting and all remaining future charges are immediately accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
As the requirement to save under an employee share save group recognises termination benets when it is demonstrably arrangement is a non-vesting condition, employee cancellations committed to the affected employees leaving the group.
must be treated as an accelerated vesting.
xvi Post retirement benets xviii Taxation The group operates a funded dened benefit pension plan, which is Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted administered by an independent Trustee, for the majority of its or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries employees.
where the companys subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures The groups obligation in respect of dened benefit pension plans operate and generate taxable income.
The group periodically is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation, and the to date.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and group establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of the the fair value of any plan assets is deducted to arrive at the net amounts expected to be paid to tax authorities.
The discount rate used is the yield at the Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in respect of balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates temporary differences between the carrying amount of the groups 36 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Accounting policies assets and liabilities and their tax base, except to the extent that the initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value, with deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial recognition of changes in value recognised in the income statement in the line which goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
The transaction which is not a business combination and affects neither direct transaction costs are recognised immediately in the income accounting profit nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are, where permitted, offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local Loans and receivables tax group.
Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market other that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, than those for which the group may not recover substantially all of its in the foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration, which difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost using based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value enacted by the balance sheet date.
recognised in the income statement in the line which most Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be Available-for-sale financial assets controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not Non-derivative financial assets classied as available-for-sale are reverse in the foreseeable future.
either specically designated in this category or not classied in any Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially except when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly in recognised at fair value plus direct transaction costs and then equity, in which case the tax is also recognised in equity.
re-measured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value, with unrealised gains and losses except for changes in exchange rates for xix Advertising and marketing monetary items, interest, dividends and impairment losses, which are The costs associated with the groups advertising and marketing recognised in the income statement recognised in equity until the activities are recognised within other operating costs as incurred.
financial asset is derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is taken to the income statement, xx Dividends in the line that most appropriately reects the nature of the item or Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which they are transaction.
declared and approved by the companys shareholders in the annual general meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
Trade and other receivables Financial assets within trade and other receivables are initially xxi Provisions recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that interest method less provisions made for doubtful receivables.
an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and Provisions are made specically where there is evidence of a risk of the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by non payment, taking into account ageing, previous losses discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that experienced and general economic conditions.
reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the liability.
Financial liabilities within provisions Cash and cash equivalents are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Onerous lease with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to provisions have been measured at the lower of the cost to full the cash and which are subject to insignicant risk of changes in value and contract or the cost to exit it.
have an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash ow statement, cash and xxii Financial instruments cash equivalents are as dened above net of outstanding bank Recognition and derecognition of financial assets and financial overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included within loans and other liabilities borrowings, in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets are derecognised when the group no longer has The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial rights to cash ows, the risks and rewards of ownership or control of asset or group of financial assets are impaired.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation Where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
In particular, for arisen on assets carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is all regular way purchases and sales of financial assets, the group reduced with the loss being recognised in the income statement.
The recognises the financial assets on the settlement date, which is the impairment loss is measured as the difference between that assets date on which the asset is delivered to or by the group.
carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The Financial assets impairment loss is only reversed if it can be related objectively to an Financial assets at fair value through income statement event after the impairment was recognised and is reversed to the A financial asset is classied in this category if acquired principally for extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its the purpose of selling in the short-term held for trading or if so amortised cost at the date of reversal.
Financial assets held in this category are Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 37 If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host difference between its cost net of any principal payment and contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risk and amortisation and its fair value is transferred from equity to the characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract income statement.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt and the host contract is not carried at fair value.
Changes in the fair instruments are taken through the income statement if the increase value of embedded derivatives are recognised in the income in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event statement in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income the item or transaction.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classied as available-for-sale are recognised directly in equity.
Hedge accounting If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been To qualify for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be incurred on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair prepared at inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly value because its fair value cannot be objectively measured, or on a effective both prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge is tested derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by delivery of for effectiveness at inception and in subsequent periods in which the such an unquoted equity instrument, the amount of loss is measured hedge remains in operation.
as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the Cash ow hedge current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly Financial liabilities probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the Trade and other payables derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or liabilities, the recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and amount, and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the recognised in the same line in the income statement in the same effective interest method.
period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects the income statement.
Loans and other borrowings For highly probable transactions, when the transaction Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value plus subsequently results in the recognition of a non financial asset or non directly attributable transaction costs.
Where loans and other financial liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed borrowings contain a separable embedded derivative, the fair value from equity and included in the initial cost or carrying amount of the of the embedded derivative is the difference between the fair value non financial asset or liability.
of the hybrid instrument and the fair value of the loan or borrowing.
If a hedge of a highly probable transaction subsequently results in the The fair value of the embedded derivative and the loan or borrowing recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then the associated is recorded separately on initial recognition.
Loans and other gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassied borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the into the income statement in the same period or periods during which effective interest method and, if included in a fair value hedge the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement.
relationship, are revalued to reect the fair value movements on the Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash ow hedge of a recognised hedged risk associated with the loans and other borrowings.
The asset or liability is recognised immediately in the same income resultant amortisation of fair value movements, on fide-designation of statement line as the hedged item.
Where ineffectiveness arises on the hedge, are recognised in the income statement.
highly probable transactions, it is recognised in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Financial guarantees Financial guarantees are recognised initially at fair value plus Fair value hedge transaction costs and subsequently measured at the higher of the When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of amount determined in accordance with the accounting policy relating the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or to provisions and the amount initially determined less, when unrecognised rm commitment, the change in fair value of the appropriate, cumulative amortisation.
derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in the same line in the income statement, together with any changes in Derivative financial instruments fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the The group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce hedged risk.
exposure to foreign exchange risks and interest rate movements.
The group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation financial trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of currency for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
instruments designated as hedges of net investments in a foreign Derivative financial instruments are classied as held for trading and operation are taken to shareholders equity on consolidation to the are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value.
The extent that the hedges are deemed effective.
gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately Any ineffectiveness arising on a hedge of a net investment in a in the income statement in net finance expense.
However, where foreign operation is recognised in net finance expense.
derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge.
Derivative financial Discontinuance of hedge accounting instruments are classied as current assets or current liabilities where Discontinuance of hedge accounting may occur when a hedging they are not designated in a hedging relationship or have a maturity instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or when the period within 12 months.
Where derivative financial instruments have a hedge no longer qualies for hedge accounting or the group revokes maturity period greater than 12 months and are designated in a hedge designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged financial asset relationship, they are classied within either non current assets or non or liability remains or a highly probable transaction is still expected to current liabilities.
Under a cash ow hedge, the cumulative gain or loss at that 38 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Accounting policies point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the which these services are charged are often regulated and may be above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction subject to retrospective adjustment by regulators, and estimates are is no longer expected to take place or the underlying hedged financial used in assessing the likely effect of these adjustments.
asset or liability no longer exists, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the income Pension obligations statement.
Under a hedge of a net investment, the cumulative gain BT has a commitment, mainly through the BT Pension Scheme, to or loss remains in equity when the hedging instrument expires or is pay pension benets to approximately 333,000 people over sold, terminated or exercised, or when the hedge no longer qualies approximately 60 years.
The cost of these benets and the present for hedge accounting or the group revokes designation of the hedge value of our pension liabilities depend on such factors as the life relationship.
The cumulative gain or loss is recognised in the income expectancy of the members, the salary progression of our current statement as part of the profit on disposal when the net investment employees, the return that the pension fund assets will generate in in the foreign operation is disposed.
Under a fair value hedge, the the time before they are used to fund the pension payments and the cumulative gain or loss adjustment associated with the hedged risk is rate at which the future pension payments are discounted.
We use amortised to the income statement using the effective interest estimates for all of these factors in determining the pension costs and method over the remaining term of the hedged item.
liabilities incorporated in our financial statements.
The assumptions reect historical experience and our judgement regarding future Share capital expectations.
Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly The value of the net pension obligation at 31 March 2010 and the attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a key financial assumptions used to measure the obligation are deduction from the proceeds received.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements Useful lives for property, plant and equipment and software The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs The plant and equipment in BTs networks is long lived with cables requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also and switching equipment operating for over 10 years and requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of underground ducts being used for decades.
BT also develops applying the groups accounting policies.
We continually evaluate our software for use in IT systems and platforms that supports the estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available products and services provided to our customers and that is also information and experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in used within the group.
The annual depreciation and amortisation financial reporting, actual results could differ from these estimates.
charge is sensitive to the estimated service lives allocated to each The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are type of asset.
Asset lives are assessed annually and changed when described below.
necessary to reect current thinking on their remaining lives in light of technological change, network investment plans including the Long-term customer contracts groups bre roll out programme, prospective economic utilisation Long-term customer contracts can extend over a number of financial and physical condition of the assets concerned.
During the contractual period recognition of costs and profits service lives of assets implemented from 1 April 2009 had no may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each significant impact in aggregate on the results for the year ended contract.
If, at any time, these estimates indicate that any contract 31 March 2010. will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the contract is The carrying values of software, property, plant and equipment recognised immediately.
If these estimates indicate that any contract are disclosed in notes 10 and 11, respectively.
The useful lives applied will be less profitable than previously forecast, contract assets may to the principal categories of assets are disclosed on page 35. have to be written down to the extent they are no longer considered to be fully recoverable.
The group performs ongoing profitability Income tax reviews of its contracts in order to determine whether the latest The actual tax we pay on our profits is determined according to estimates are appropriate.
Key factors reviewed include: complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these laws and Transaction volumes or other inputs affecting future revenues regulations is unclear, we use estimates in determining the liability for which can vary depending on customer requirements, plans and the tax to be paid on our past profits which we recognise in our market position and other factors such as general economic financial statements.
We believe the estimates, assumptions and conditions: judgements are reasonable but this can involve complex issues which Our ability to achieve key contract milestones connected with the may take a number of years to resolve.
The final determination of transition, development, transformation and deployment phases prior year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates for customer contracts: reected in the financial statements and may result in the recognition The status of commercial relations with customers and the of an additional tax expense or tax credit in the income statement.
implication for future revenue and cost projections: and The value of the groups income tax liability is disclosed on the Our estimates of future staff and third party costs and the degree balance sheet on page 46. to which cost savings and efficiencies are deliverable.
The carrying value of assets comprising the costs of the initial set up, Deferred tax transition or transformation phase of long-term networked IT Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in services contracts are disclosed in note 15. determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should Interconnect income and payments to other telecommunications be recognised with consideration given to the timing and level of operators future taxable income.
In certain instances, BT relies on other operators to measure the The carrying value of the groups deferred tax assets and liabilities trafc ows interconnecting with our networks.
Estimates are used in are disclosed in notes 27 and 20, respectively.
these cases to determine the amount of income receivable from, or payments we need to make to, these other operators.
The prices at Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 39 Goodwill must be treated as a cancellation.
Cancellations are treated as The recoverable amount of cash generating units has been accelerated vestings and all remaining future charges are immediately determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations recognised in the income statement with the credit recognised require the use of estimates, including managements expectations of directly in equity.
Prior to the adoption of the amendment to IFRS 2, future revenue growth, operating costs and profit margins for each the monthly savings requirement under the groups all employee cash generating unit.
sharesave plans was classied as a vesting condition and any The carrying value of goodwill and the key assumptions used in cancellations made by employees prior to the normal vesting date performing the annual impairment assessment are disclosed in resulted in the reversal of all charges recognised to date.
The amendment to IFRS 2 requires retrospective adoption and hence prior period comparatives have been restated resulting in an Determination of fair values increase of 110m in the share-based payment charge for 2009 Certain financial instruments such as investments, derivative financial 2008: nil.
There was no impact on net assets and cash ow.
There instruments and certain elements of loans and borrowings, are was no material impact on the share-based payment charge in 2010, carried on the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in fair value following the adoption of the amendment.
reected in the income statement.
Fair values are estimated by reference in part to published price quotations and in part by using IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements valuation techniques.
IAS 1 Revised introduced some changes in the format and content The fair values of financial instruments are disclosed in note 31. of the financial statements.
In addition, the revised standard requires the presentation of a third balance sheet as at 1 April 2008 because Providing for doubtful debts the group has applied two new accounting policies retrospectively.
BT provides services to consumer and business customers, mainly on The adoption of the amendment to IAS 1 Revised arising from credit terms.
We know that certain debts due to us will not be paid the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2007 has also resulted in a change through the default of a small number of our customers.
Estimates, in accounting policy applied to the classication of derivatives which based on our historical experience, are used in determining the level have not been allocated to a specic hedge relationship.
Where such of debts that we believe will not be collected.
These estimates include derivatives have a maturity of and are expected to be held for more such factors as the current state of the economy and particular than twelve months after the reporting period, they are now industry issues.
presented as non current assets or liabilities.
Prior period balance The value of the provision for doubtful debts is disclosed in note 15. sheets have been reclassied to be on a consistent basis.
The impact of these changes on the balance sheet line items is an increase in non Provisions current assets as at 31 March 2009 of 86m 31 March 2008: 6m As disclosed in note 19, the groups provisions principally relate to and a reduction in current assets as at 31 March 2009 of 86m obligations arising from property rationalisation programmes, 31 March 2008: 6m, and a reduction in current liabilities as at restructuring programmes, claims and litigation and regulatory risks.
31 March 2009 of 284m 31 March 2008: 209m and an increase Under our property rationalisation programmes we have identied in non current liabilities of 284m 31 March 2008: 209m.
Although efforts are being made to sub-let this space, this is not always possible given the current IAS 23 Revised Borrowing costs regulatory environment.
Estimates have been made of the cost of In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets for which vacant possession and of any shortfall arising from any sub-lease the commencement date for capitalisation is on or after 1 April 2009, income being lower than the lease costs.
Any such shortfall is the group capitalises borrowing costs during the construction phase as recognised as a provision.
part of the cost of that asset.
Previously, the group immediately In respect of claims, litigation and regulatory risks, the group recognised all borrowing costs as an expense in the income statement.
provides for anticipated costs where an outow of resources is The change in accounting policy was due to the adoption of IAS 23 considered probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of the Revised Borrowing Costs.
In 2010, the group capitalised borrowing likely outcome.
The ultimate liability may vary from the amounts costs of 3m with respect to property, plant and equipment under provided and will be dependent upon the eventual outcome of any construction note 11 and software development costs note 10. settlement.
Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to The amendment to IFRS 7 expands the disclosures required in respect published standards adopted in the year ended 31 March 2010 of fair value financial instruments measurements and liquidity risk.
The The following new, revised and amended standards and group has elected not to provide comparative information for these interpretations have been adopted in 2010 and have affected the expanded disclosures in 2010, as set out in note 31, in accordance amounts reported in these financial statements or have resulted in a with the transitional relief offered in the amendment.
change in presentation or disclosure.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment Vesting Conditions IFRS 8 is a new disclosure standard which has not changed the and Cancellations groups reportable segments but has introduced certain new The adoption of the amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment disclosures as set out in note 1.
Vesting Conditions and Cancellations has resulted in a change in the As part of the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009 the IASB groups accounting policy for share-based payments.
The modied the requirement to disclose total assets for each reportable amendment claries that only service and performance conditions segment.
This disclosure is now required only if a measure of total are vesting conditions.
Any other conditions are non-vesting assets by segment is reported to the chief operating decision maker conditions which have to be taken into account to determine the fair CODM.
For BT, such a measure is not included in the information value of the equity instruments granted.
In the case that the award regularly provided to the CODM.
The amendment to IFRS 8 is does not vest as a result of a failure to meet a non-vesting condition effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January that is within the control of either the group or the counterparty, this 40 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Accounting policies 2010.
The amendment was endorsed by the EU on 23 March 2010 Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and and the group has chosen to adopt it early for 2010.
Measurement: Eligible Hedged items effective 1 April 2010 The following new and revised standards and interpretations have This claries two aspects of hedge accounting relating to hedging also been adopted in these financial statements.
Their adoption has with options and the identication of ination as a hedged risk.
not had any significant impact on the amounts reported.
IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements: Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: PresentationIFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes: Classication of Rights Issues effective 1 April 2010 IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation: and This requires an issue to all existing shareholders of rights to acquire IFRIC 18 Transfer of assets from customers.
additional shares to be recognised in equity, regardless of the currency in which the exercise price is denominated.
Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards not yet effective Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009 effective 1 April 2010 Certain new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing These improvements relate to a number of standards including standards have been published that are mandatory for the groups changes in presentation, recognition and measurement, terminology accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2010 or later and editorial changes.
It incorporates minor amendments to a periods, which the group has not adopted early, with the exception of number of standards in areas including operating segments, leases, the amendment to IFRS 8 as described above.
Those which are intangible assets and financial instruments.
considered to be relevant to the groups operations, but which are not currently expected to have a significant impact on the groups IAS 24 Revised Related Party Disclosures effective 1 April 2011 financial statements, are as follows: The revised standard claries the denition of a related party and provides some exemptions for government-related entities.
IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations effective 1 April 2010 IFRS 3 Revised revises certain aspects of accounting for business Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding combinations.
Revisions include the requirement to expense all Requirement effective 1 April 2011 transaction costs and the requirement for all payments to acquire a This amendment permits a voluntary prepayment of a minimum business to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with funding requirement to be recognised as an asset.
future contingent consideration subsequently re-measured at fair value through the income statement.
IFRS 3 Revised is applied IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments prospectively to business combinations entered into on or after the effective 1 April 2011 effective date.
This interpretation, which is applied retrospectively, claries the accounting when an entity renegotiates the terms of its debt with the IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial result that the liability is settled in part or in full by the debtor issuing Statements effective 1 April 2010 its own equity instrument to the creditor.
IAS 27 Revised, which is applied prospectively, requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 April 2013 equity if there is no overall change in control.
Such transactions will IFRS 9 is the first phase of the IASBs three phase project to replace no longer result in goodwill or gains or losses being recorded.
IAS 27 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
It is Revised also species that when control is lost, any remaining applicable to financial assets and requires classication and interest should be re-measured to fair value and a gain or loss measurement in either the amortised cost or the fair value category.
recorded through the income statement.
IFRS 9 is applied prospectively with transitional arrangements depending on the date of application.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners effective 1 April 2010 IFRIC 17 provides guidance on how an entity should measure distributions other than cash when it pays dividends to its owners.
The interpretation requires the dividend payable to be measured at the fair value of the assets to be distributed, and any difference between the fair value and the book value of the assets is recorded in the income statement.
Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 41 GROUP INCOME STATEMENT For the year ended 31 March 2010 Before specic Specic a items items Total Year ended 31 March 2010 Notes m m m Revenue 1 20,911 52 20,859 Other operating income 2 378 2 380 Operating costs 3 18,674 427 19,101 Operating profit 1 2,615 477 2,138 Finance expense 6 3,114 3,114 Finance income 6 2,226 11 2,237 Net finance expense 888 11 877 Share of post tax profit of associates and joint ventures 13 25 29 54 Loss on disposal of associate 5 12 12 profit before taxation 1,752 449 1,303 Taxation 8 402 342 60 profit for the year 1,350 107 1,243 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the parent 1,349 107 1,242 Minority interests 21 1 1 a For a definition of specific items, see page 33.
An analysis of specific items is provided in note 5.
Before specic Specic a b items items Total Year ended 31 March 2009 Notes m m m Revenue 1 21,313 21,313 Other operating income 2 350 13 337 Operating costs 3 20,956 395 21,351 Operating profit 1 707 408 299 Finance expense 6 3,315 3,315 Finance income 6 3,657 3,657 Net finance income 342 342 Share of post tax profit of associates and joint ventures 13 39 36 75 profit before taxation 1,088 372 716 Taxation 8 262 43 219 profit for the year 826 329 497 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the parent 824 329 495 Minority interests 21 2 2 a For a definition of specific items, see page 33.
An analysis of specific items is provided in note 5. b Restated.
Before specic Specic a b items items Total Year ended 31 March 2008 Notes m m m Revenue 1 20,704 20,704 Other operating income 2 359 10 349 Operating costs 3 18,160 529 18,689 Operating profit 1 2,903 539 2,364 Finance expense 6 2,977 2,977 Finance income 6 3,697 3,697 Net finance income 720 720 Share of post tax loss of associates and joint ventures 11 11 profit on disposal of associate 5 9 9 profit before taxation 3,612 530 3,082 Taxation 8 921 343 578 profit for the year 2,691 187 2,504 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the parent 2,690 187 2,503 Minority interests 1 1 a For a definition of specific items, see page 33.
42 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Group income statement GROUP STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Year ended 31 March a a 2010 2009 2008 Notes m m m profit for the year 1,243 497 2,504 Other comprehensive loss income Actuarial losses gains relating to retirement benefit obligations 27 4,324 7,037 2,621 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 23 112 609 197 Fair value movements on available-for-sale assets: fair value gains losses 23 11 7 8 reclassied and reported in net profit 23 3 6 Fair value movements on cash ow hedges: fair value losses gains 23 1,067 2,719 446 reclassied and reported in net profit loss 23 496 2,144 294 reclassied and reported in non current assets 23 4 5 11 Tax on components of other comprehensive income 8 1,325 1,882 832 Other comprehensive loss income for the year, net of tax 3,675 3,980 2,135 Total comprehensive loss income for the year 2,432 3,483 4,639 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the parent 2,433 3,494 4,635 Minority interests 1 11 4 2,432 3,483 4,639 a Restated.
Group statement of comprehensive income British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 43 GROUP STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Shareholders equity Share Share Other Retained Minority Total a a b c capital premium reserves earnings Total interests Equity m m m m m m m At 1 April 2007 2,172 8,000 758 11,400 22,330 34 22,364 Change in accounting policy for adoption of the amendment to IFRS 2 see page 40 d Total comprehensive income 314 4,321 4,635 4 4,639 Dividends to shareholders 4,545 4,545 4,545 Share-based payments 55 55 55 Tax on share-based payments 45 45 45 Other movements in minority interests 16 16 At 1 April 2008 2,172 8,000 1,072 11,186 22,430 22 22,452 d Total comprehensive income loss 1,002 4,496 3,494 11 3,483 Dividends to shareholders 925 925 925 Share-based payments 143 143 143 Tax on share-based payments 12 12 12 Other movements in minority interests 6 6 At 1 April 2009 2,172 8,000 2,074 5,896 18,142 27 18,169 d Total comprehensive loss income 562 1,871 2,433 1 2,432 Share-based payments 81 81 81 Tax on share-based payments 19 19 19 Other movements in minority interests 4 4 At 31 March 2010 2,172 8,000 1,512 4,125 15,809 24 15,833 a For details of share capital and share premium, see note 22. b For further analysis of Other reserves, see note 23. c For further analysis of minority interests, see note 21. d The Group statement of comprehensive income is on page 43.
44 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Group statement of changes in equity GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT Year ended 31 March a a 2010 2009 2008 Note m m m Cash ow from operating activities b profit before taxation 1,303 716 3,082 Depreciation and amortisation 3,039 2,890 2,889 Loss on sale of associates and non current asset investments 10 13 1 Net finance expense income 877 342 720 Other non cash charges 70 596 60 Share of profits losses of associates and joint ventures 54 75 11 Decrease in inventories 14 11 23 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 510 1,069 498 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 700 379 451 d Decrease increase in provisions and other liabilities 591 439 104 b Cash generated from operations 4,478 4,938 5,195 Income taxes paid 76 232 222 Income tax repayment for prior years 425 4 521 Net cash inow from operating activities 4,827 4,710 5,494 Cash ow from investing activities Interest received 207 605 670 Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 3 62 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 29 44 62 Proceeds on disposal of businesses 2 Proceeds on disposal of associates and joint ventures 13 Proceeds on disposal of non current financial assets 1 e Outow inow on non current amounts owed by parent company 191 339 392 c Proceeds on disposal of current financial assets 8,739 6,316 4,779 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 70 285 353 Purchases of property, plant and equipment and computer software 2,509 3,082 3,315 Purchases of non current financial assets 2 c Purchases of current financial assets 8,985 6,030 4,938 Net cash outow from investing activities 2,775 2,087 2,689 Cash ows from nancing activities Equity dividends paid 925 4,545 Dividends paid to minority interests 1 Interest paid 956 956 842 Repayments of borrowings 307 863 913 Repayment of finance lease liabilities 24 16 284 New bank loans raised 522 795 3,939 f Intra-group funding 261 1,372 913 Net repayment proceeds of issued commercial paper 697 606 681 Proceeds from finance leases 9 Net cash used in nancing activities 1,714 2,732 2,413 Effect of exchange rate changes in cash and cash equivalents 7 54 25 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 331 55 417 Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 1,102 1,157 740 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 9 1,433 1,102 1,157 a Restated.
See page 40. b The reconciliation from the profit before taxation of 716m for 2009 to the cash generated from operations of 4,938m for 2009 includes BT Global Services contract and financial review charges of 1,639m, which were non cash charges.
c Primarily consists of investment in and redemption of amounts held in liquidity funds.
d Includes pension deficit payment of 525m 2009: nil, 2008 320m.
e In addition, there are non cash movements in these intra-group loan arrangements which principally relate to funding and investment transactions between British Telecommunications plc and its subsidiaries where one of the parties to the transaction has an intra-group loan arrangement with the parent company.
For further details see note 24. f In addition, there are non cash movements in this intra-group loan arrangement which principally relate to settlement of amounts the ultimate parent company was owed by the parent company which were settled through their loan accounts with British Telecommunications plc.
For further details see note 24.
See page 40. b The Group statement of changes in equity is on page 44.
The consolidated financial statements on pages 33 to 85 and 103 were approved by the Board of Directors on 18 May 2010 and were signed on its behalf by Tony Chanmugam Director 46 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Group balance sheet NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 March 2010 1.
Segment information The group has implemented IFRS 8 Operating segments with effect from 1 April 2009.
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identied on the basis of internal reports about components of the group which are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker in order to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
As a result of the adoption of IFRS 8, the groups reportable segments have not changed.
The groups operating segments are reported based on financial information provided to the BT Group plc Operating Committee, which is the key management committee and represents the chief operating decision maker.
The BT Group plc Operating Committee is chaired by the BT Group plc Group Chief Executive and the other members are the BT Group plc Group Finance Director and the Chief Executives of BT Retail, BT Wholesale, BT Global Services, BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate.
The Chief Executive of Openreach also normally attends all meetings.
The groups organisational structure reects the different customer groups to which it provides communications products and services via its four customer-facing lines of business, supported by two internal functional units.
The four customer-facing lines of business are the groups reportable segments and generate substantially all the groups revenue.
Their operations are summarised as follows: BT Global Services serves multinational corporations, domestic businesses, government departments and other communication providers across the world, providing networked IT services.
BT Retail serves consumer customers and small and medium enterprises SMEs in the UK, providing a range of innovative communications products and services.
BT Retail also includes BT Ireland, which operates across the major corporate, SME, consumer and wholesale markets throughout the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, and BT Enterprises, which comprises a number of individual businesses including BT Conferencing, BT Directories, BT Expedite, BT Redcare and BT Payphones.
BT Wholesale provides services to UK communications providers through a diverse portfolio ranging from nationally available broadband, voice and data connectivity services and interconnect to bespoke, fully managed network outsourcing and value-added solutions.
Openreach is responsible for the crucial first mile connecting communications providers customers to their local telephone exchange, giving them equal, open and economic access to the UK network.
Openreach products are sold on an equivalent basis to BT lines of business and other communications providers at the same arms length prices, with the BT lines of business being treated no differently than any other customer with regard to terms and conditions or access to systems and data.
BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate are internal service units which support the four customer-facing lines of business.
BT Innovate & Design is responsible for the design and build of the platforms, systems and processes which support the provision of the groups products and services, and BT Operate is responsible for their operation.
BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate operate on a full cost recovery basis.
The costs incurred by BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate are allocated to the customer-facing lines of business in line with the services they provide.
The depreciation and amortisation incurred by BT Operate in relation to the networks and systems they manage and operate on behalf of the customer-facing lines of business are allocated to the lines of business based on their respective utilisation.
Capital expenditure incurred by BT Innovate & Design for specic projects undertaken on behalf of the customer-facing lines of business is allocated based on the value of the directly attributable expenditure incurred.
Where projects are not directly attributable to a particular line of business, capital expenditure is allocated based on the proportion of estimated future economic benets.
Capital expenditure incurred by BT Operate is allocated to the customer-facing lines of business in line with the proportion of operating cost recoveries.
BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate and the groups centralised functions are not reportable segments as they do not meet the quantitative thresholds as set out in IFRS 8 for any of the years presented.
Intra-group revenue generated from the sale of regulated products and services is based on market price.
Intra-group revenue from the sale of other products and services is agreed between the relevant lines of business and thus line of business profitability can be impacted by transfer pricing levels.
In addition to the four customer-facing lines of business, the remaining operations of the group are aggregated and included within the Other category to reconcile to the consolidated results of the group.
The Other category includes costs associated with the groups centralised functions including procurement and supply chain, eet and property management.
Provisions for the settlement of significant legal, commercial and regulatory disputes, which are negotiated at a group level, are initially recorded in the Other segment.
On resolution of the dispute, the full impact is recognised in the relevant lines of business results, offset in the group results by the utilisation of the provision previously charged to the Other segment.
Settlements which are particularly significant or cover more than one financial year may fall within the denition of specic items as detailed on page 33.
Information regarding the results of each reportable segment is provided below.
Performance is measured based on EBITDA before specic items and contract and financial review charges recognised in BT Global Services in 2009 dened as adjusted EBITDA, as included in the internal financial reports reviewed by the BT Group plc Operating Committee.
EBITDA is dened as the operating profit or loss before depreciation, amortisation, net finance expense and taxation.
Adjusted EBITDA is considered to be a useful measure of the operating performance of the lines of business because it reects the underlying cash by eliminating depreciation and amortisation and also provides a meaningful analysis of trading performance by excluding specic items which are significant, one-off or unusual in nature and have little predictive value.
Specic items are detailed in note 5 and are not allocated to the reportable segments as this reects how they are reported to the Operating Committee of BT Group plc.
Finance expense and income is not allocated to the reportable segments as this activity is managed by the treasury function which manages the overall net debt position of the group.
Restatements Comparatives have been restated for the adoption of the amendment to IFRS 2, which has been dealt with in the Other category and detailed on page 40.
Comparatives have also been restated for the impact of customer account moves between BT Global Services and BT Retail and other internal trading model changes effective from 1 April 2009 and has had no impact on the total results of the group.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 47 1.
Segment information continued Segment revenue and profit BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach Other Total Year ended 31 March 2010 m m m m m m Total segment revenue 8,513 8,297 4,450 5,164 40 26,464 Internal revenue 373 1,227 3,953 5,553 Revenue from external customers 8,513 7,924 3,223 1,211 40 20,911 b Adjusted EBITDA 457 1,850 1,279 1,960 108 5,654 Depreciation and amortisation 815 459 680 856 229 3,039 b Adjusted operating loss profit 358 1,391 599 1,104 121 2,615 Specic items note 5 477 477 Operating loss profit 358 1,391 599 1,104 598 2,138 Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures 54 Loss on disposal of associate 12 Net finance expense 877 profit before tax 1,303 BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach Other Total a Year ended 31 March 2009 m m m m m m Total segment revenue 8,551 8,663 4,658 5,231 40 27,143 Internal revenue 343 1,228 4,218 5,789 b Adjusted revenue from external customers 8,551 8,320 3,430 1,013 40 21,354 Contract and financial review charges 41 41 Revenue from external customers 8,510 8,320 3,430 1,013 40 21,313 b Adjusted EBITDA 257 1,664 1,277 1,996 42 5,236 Depreciation and amortisation 776 426 686 778 224 2,890 b Adjusted operating loss profit 519 1,238 591 1,218 182 2,346 Specic items note 5 408 408 Contract and financial review charges 1,639 1,639 Operating loss profit 2,158 1,238 591 1,218 590 299 Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures 75 Net finance income 342 profit before tax 716 a Restated.
BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach Other Total a Year ended 31 March 2008 m m m m m m Total segment revenue 7,664 8,682 4,959 5,266 28 26,599 Internal revenue 265 1,252 4,378 5,895 Revenue from external customers 7,664 8,417 3,707 888 28 20,704 b Adjusted EBITDA 808 1,529 1,406 1,911 138 5,792 Depreciation and amortisation 744 445 893 689 118 2,889 b Adjusted operating profit 64 1,084 513 1,222 20 2,903 Specic items note 5 539 539 Operating profit loss 64 1,084 513 1,222 519 2,364 Share of post tax losses of associates and joint ventures 11 profit on disposal of associate 9 Net finance income 720 profit before tax 3,082 a Restated.
See pages 40 and 47. b Adjusted revenue, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted operating profit loss are stated before specific items and BT Global Services contract and financial review charges in 2009 and are non-GAAP measures provided in addition to the disclosure requirements defined under IFRS.
The rationale for using non-GAAP measures is explained on pages 26 and 27.
48 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Segment information continued Capital expenditure BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach Other Total Year ended 31 March 2010 m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 395 333 230 816 130 1,904 Intangible assets 204 84 95 91 155 629 Capital expenditure 599 417 325 907 285 2,533 BT Global Services BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach Other Total Year ended 31 March 2009 m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 576 386 310 823 154 2,249 Intangible assets 310 85 125 128 191 839 Capital expenditure 886 471 435 951 345 3,088 Revenue by products and services 2010 2009 2008 Year ended 31 March m m m Managed solutions 6,581 6,313 5,293 Broadband and convergence 2,678 2,617 2,549 Calls and lines 6,293 6,862 7,405 Transit, conveyance, interconnect services, WLR, global carrier and other wholesale products 2,957 3,244 3,327 Other products and services 2,402 2,318 2,130 Total adjusted revenue 20,911 21,354 20,704 Specic items 52 Contract and financial review charges 41 Total revenue 20,859 21,313 20,704 Geographic information The UK is the groups country of domicile and generates the majority of its revenue from external customers in the UK.
The geographic analysis of revenue is on the basis of the country of origin in which the customer is invoiced.
Revenue from external customers 2010 2009 2008 Year ended 31 March m m m UK 16,064 16,736 17,186 Europe, Middle East and Africa, excluding the UK 3,250 3,170 2,510 Americas 1,235 1,119 847 Asia Pacic 310 288 161 Total revenue 20,859 21,313 20,704 Non current assets 2010 2009 At 31 March m m UK 15,591 16,118 Europe, Middle East and Africa, excluding the UK 2,761 3,046 Americas 653 421 Asia Pacic 62 70 Total 19,067 19,655 Non current assets other than derivative financial instruments and investments and deferred tax assets are based on the location of the assets.
Other operating income 2010 2009 2008 Year ended 31 March m m m profits on disposal of property, plant and equipment 75 52 50 Income from repayment works 74 72 74 Other operating income 229 226 235 Other operating income before specic items 378 350 359 Specic items note 5 2 13 10 Other operating income 380 337 349 Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 49 3.
Operating costs a a 2010 2009 2008 Year ended 31 March Note m m m Costs by nature Staff costs: Wages and salaries 4,173 4,455 4,234 Social security costs 447 422 417 Pension costs 27 304 543 626 Share-based payment expense 29 71 141 73 Total staff costs 4,995 5,561 5,350 Own work capitalised 575 673 724 Net staff costs 4,420 4,888 4,626 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: Owned assets 11 2,260 2,200 2,324 Held under finance leases 11 44 49 86 Amortisation of intangible assets 10 735 641 479 Payments to telecommunications operators 4,083 4,266 4,237 b Other operating costs 7,132 8,912 6,408 Total operating costs before specic items 18,674 20,956 18,160 Specic items 5 427 395 529 Total operating costs 19,101 21,351 18,689 Operating costs before specic items include the following: e Contract and financial review charges 1,598 c Leaver costs 142 202 127 d Research and development expenditure 1,177 1,021 857 Rental costs relating to operating leases 451 426 423 Foreign currency gain losses 2 30 4 a Restated for the adoption of the amendment to IFRS 2.
See page 40. b Other operating costs also include a net charge of 1m 2009: 8m credit, 2008: nil relating to fair value movements on derivatives recycled from the cash flow reserve.
c Leaver costs exclude manager leaver costs associated with the restructuring of BT Global Services during 2010 and 2009 and manager leaver costs associated with the groups transformation and reorganisation activities during 2009 and 2008.
These costs have been recorded as a specific item.
Other leaver costs are included within wages and salaries and social security costs.
d Research and development expenditure includes amortisation of 733m 2009: 431m, 2008: 325m in respect of internally developed computer software.
e In 2009, the group recognised contract and financial review charges of 1,639m, of which 1,598m was recognised within other operating costs and 41m was recognised as a reduction to revenue.
The total charge of 1,639m was allocated against the following assets and liabilities: intangible assets 241m: non current trade and other receivables 913m: prepayments 52m: accrued income 41m: provisions 256m: 136m was allocated against a number of other balance sheet categories and the individual amounts were insignificant.
b Restated for the impact of customer account moves and other internal trading model change.
50 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5.
Specic items The group separately identies and discloses significant one off or unusual items termed specic items.
This is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and reported to the Board and the Operating Committee of BT Group plc and it assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the group.
A denition of specic items is provided on page 33.
2010 2009 2008 Year ended 31 March m m m Revenue a Regulatory settlement 52 Other operating income b Profit loss on disposal of a business 2 13 10 Operating costs BT Global services restructuring charges: c Networks, products and procurement channels rationalisation 142 183 c People and property 132 51 c Intangible asset impairments and other charges 27 46 301 280 d Property rationalisation costs 121 e Costs associated with settlement of open tax years 5 f Restructuring costs group transformation and reorganisation activities 65 402 g 21CN asset impairment and related charges 50 h Creation of Openreach and delivery of the Undertakings 53 i Write off of circuit inventory and other working capital balances 74 427 395 529 Finance income e Interest on settlement of open tax years 11 Share of results of associates and joint ventures j Impact of renegotiated supply contracts on associate 29 k Reassessment of carrying value of associate 36 l Loss profit on disposal of associates and joint ventures 12 9 17 36 9 Net specic items charge before tax 449 372 530 e Tax credit in respect of settlement of open tax years 230 40 m Tax credit on re-measurement of deferred tax 154 Tax credit on specic items above 112 43 149 Net specic items charge after tax 107 329 187 a In 2010 a charge of 52m was recognised reflecting an Ofcom determination in relation to 2 Mb s partial private circuits.
b In 2010 a profit of 2m arose on disposal of a business.
In 2009 and 2008 respectively, a 13m and 10m loss on disposal arose from exiting businesses.
c In 2010 and 2009 respectively, the group recognised BT Global Services restructuring charges of 301m and 280m.
The main components of the charges are set out below: Networks, products and procurement channels rationalisation charges of 142m 2009: 183m and 2008: nil.
In 2010 this included a payment of 127m made to Tech Mahindra for the renegotiation of certain supply contracts as part of the rationalisation of procurement channels.
People and property charges of 132m 2009: 51m and 2008: nil principally comprising leaver costs and property exit costs.
Intangible asset impairments and other charges of 27m 2009: 46m and 2008: nil reflecting the costs associated with rationalising the services that are offered to customers and the brands under which customers are served.
d In 2010 121m 2009 and 2008: nil of property rationalisation charges were recognised in relation to the rationalisation of the groups UK property portfolio.
The charge recognised relates to properties which have been vacated and as a result of which, the associated leases have become onerous.
This programme is expected to continue over the next two years.
Including the charge recognised in 2010, the total cost of the rationalisation programme is expected to be around 300m.
e In 2010 the group agreed substantially all outstanding tax matters with HMRC relating to the 2006, 2007 and 2008 tax years.
Specific items include a tax credit of 230m, associated interest of 11m and costs of 5m in connection with reaching the agreement.
In 2008 the group agreed an outstanding tax matter relating to a business disposed of in 2001, the impact of which was a tax credit of 40m.
f In 2009 and 2008 respectively, the group incurred costs of 65m and 402m in respect of the groups transformation and reorganisation activities.
The costs mainly comprised leaver costs, property exit and transformation programme costs.
g In 2009 a 50m charge was recognised comprising 31m of asset impairments and 19m of associated costs, following the groups review of its 21CN programme and associated voice strategy in the light of the move to a customer-led roll out strategy and focus on next generation voice service developments of fibre-based products.
h In 2008 a charge of 53m was recognised in relation to further estimated costs to create Openreach and deliver the Undertakings agreed with Ofcom.
i In 2008 a charge of 74m was recognised as a result of the completion of a review of circuit inventory and other working capital balances.
j In 2010 the group recognised a specific item credit of 29m in connection with the 127m payment to its associate Tech Mahindra, as described above.
k In 2009 a credit of 36m was recognised in respect of a reassessment of the value of the groups share of the net assets of an associate.
l In 2010 a 12m loss on disposal of an indirect interest in Tech Mahindra was recognised.
In 2008, a 9m profit on the sale of an associate was recognised.
m In 2008 a tax credit of 154m was recognised for the re-measurement of deferred tax balances as a result of the change in the UK statutory corporation tax rate from 30% to 28% effective in 2009.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 51 6.
Finance expense and finance income 2010 2009 2008 Year ended 31 March m m m Finance expense a, b Interest on listed bonds, debentures and notes 806 777 629 a Interest on finance leases 18 25 31 a Interest on immediate and ultimate parent company borrowings 1 40 63 a Interest on other borrowings 58 130 157 a Unwinding of discount on provisions 4 33 e Fair value loss on derivatives not in a designated hedge relationship 19 29 41 f Net loss on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 325 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 2,211 2,308 2,028 c, d Finance expense 3,117 3,315 2,977 g Less: amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets 3 Total finance expense 3,114 3,315 2,977 a Calculated using the effective interest rate method unless otherwise stated below.
b Includes a net charge of 44m 2009: 25m, 2008: 77m relating to fair value movements on derivatives recycled from the cash flow reserve.
c Includes a net credit of 29m 2009: net charge of 39m, 2008: net credit of 6m relating to fair value movements arising on hedged items and a net charge of 29m 2009: net credit of 39m, 2008: net charge of 6m relating to fair value movements arising on derivatives designated as fair value hedges.
d Includes a net credit of 451m 2009: net charge of 2,161m, 2008: net charge of 373m relating to foreign exchange movements on loans and borrowings and a net charge of 451m 2009: net credit of 2,161m, 2008: net credit of 373m relating to fair value movements on derivatives recycled from the cash flow reserve.
The items generating this foreign exchange are in designated hedge relationships.
e Includes a loss of nil 2009: nil, 2008: 2m recycled from the cash flow reserve arising on fide-designation of derivatives from a hedge relationship and includes a charge of 9m arising from the negotiation of swap break dates on certain derivatives.
f Includes a charge of nil 2009: charge 3m, 2008: credit 6m recycled from the available-for-sale reserve.
g The weighted average capitalisation rate on general borrowings was 7.9% in 2010.
2010 2009 2008 Year ended 31 March m m m Finance income Other interest and similar income Interest on available-for-sale investments 5 14 25 Interest on loans and receivables 7 17 40 Interest income on loans to parent company 282 1,005 1,184 a Other interest and similar income 11 Expected return on pension scheme assets 1,932 2,621 2,448 Total finance income 2,237 3,657 3,697 a 2010 includes 11m relating to interest on settlement of tax matters disclosed as a specific item see note 5.
2010 2009 2008 Year ended 31 March m m m Net finance expense income before specic items and pensions 609 29 300 Net interest expense income on pensions 279 313 420 Net finance expense income before specic items 888 342 720 Specic items 11 Net finance expense income 877 342 720 7.
Dividends 2010 2009 2008 Year ended 31 March m m m Dividends paid in the year First interim dividend 200 300 Second interim dividend 725 2,000 Third interim dividend 425 Fourth interim dividend 1,820 925 4,545 52 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 8.
Taxation 2010 2009 2008 Year ended 31 March m m m Analysis of taxation expense credit for the year United Kingdom Corporation tax at 28% 2009: 28%, 2008: 30% 243 272 554 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 204 50 18 Non UK taxation Current 31 48 42 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 10 88 Total current tax expense 70 260 526 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 53 77 78 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 63 36 26 Total deferred tax credit expense 10 41 52 Total taxation expense 60 219 578 Factors affecting taxation expense The taxation expense on the profit for the year differs from the amount computed by applying the corporation tax rate to the profit before taxation as a result of the following factors: a a 2010 2009 2008 Year ended 31 March m % m % m % profit before taxation 1,303 716 3,082 Notional taxation expense at UK rate of 28% 2009: 28%, 2008: 30% 364 28.0 201 28.0 925 30.0 Effects of: Non deductible depreciation and amortisation 18 1.4 27 3.8 23 0.7 Non deductible taxable non UK losses profits 26 2.0 24 3.3 7 0.2 Overseas losses utilised 35 2.7 Higher lower taxes on non UK profits 1 0.1 9 1.3 7 0.2 Higher taxes on gain on disposal of non current investments and group undertakings 4 0.6 Other deferred tax assets not recognised 17 1.3 5 0.7 13 0.4 Associates and joint ventures 11 0.8 21 2.9 2 0.1 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 37 2.9 24 3.4 56 1.8 Tax credit on settlement of open tax years 230 17.7 40 1.3 Re-measurement of deferred tax balances at 28% 154 5.0 Adoption of the amendment to IFRS 2 30 4.2 Other 53 4.1 30 4.2 105 3.3 Total taxation expense and effective tax rate 60 4.6 219 30.6 578 18.8 Specic items 342 43 343 Total taxation expense before specic items and effective tax rate on profit before specic items 402 22.9 262 24.1 921 25.5 a Restated see page 40.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 53 8.
Taxation continued Tax components of other comprehensive income The tax credit expense relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Tax Tax Tax Before credit After Before credit After Before credit After tax expense tax tax expense tax tax expense tax Year ended 31 March m m m m m m m m m Actuarial losses gains relating to retirement benefit obligations 4,324 1,211 3,113 7,037 1,959 5,078 2,621 804 1,817 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 112 45 157 609 87 696 197 1 198 Fair value movements on available-for-sale assets 11 11 4 4 14 14 Fair value movements on cash ow hedges fair value gains losses 1,067 297 770 2,719 766 1,953 446 108 338 reclassied and reported in net loss profit 496 139 357 2,144 600 1,544 294 82 212 reclassied and reported in non current assets 4 1 3 5 2 3 11 3 8 5,000 1,325 3,675 5,862 1,882 3,980 2,967 832 2,135 Current tax expense credit 6 2 Deferred tax credit expense 1,331 1,882 830 1,325 1,882 832 Tax on items recognised directly in equity 2010 2009 2008 Year ended 31 March m m m Current tax credit relating to share-based payments 17 Deferred tax credit expense relating to share-based payments 19 12 62 Total taxation credit expense on items recognised directly in equity 19 12 45 9.
Cash and cash equivalents 2010 2009 At 31 March m m Cash at bank and in hand 186 549 Cash equivalents Available-for-sale Listed 7 Loans and receivables UK deposits 1,211 711 European deposits 7 5 US deposits 37 15 Total cash equivalents 1,255 738 Total cash and cash equivalents 1,441 1,287 Bank overdrafts 8 185 Cash and cash equivalents per the cash ow statement 1,433 1,102 The group has cross undertaking guarantee facilities across certain bank accounts which allow a legally enforceable right of set off of the relevant cash and overdraft balances on bank accounts included within each scheme.
Included within overdrafts at 31 March 2010 were balances of nil 2009: 160m which had a legally enforceable right of set off against cash balances of nil 2009: 83m.
The groups cash at bank included restricted cash of 54m 2009: 52m, of which 29m 2009: 27m were held in countries in which prior approval is required to transfer funds abroad.
Such liquid funds are at the groups disposition within a reasonable period of time if it complies with these requirements.
The remaining balance of 25m 2009: 25m were held in escrow accounts.
54 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 9.
Cash and cash equivalents continued The credit rating of counterparties with which cash equivalents were held is detailed in the table below.
2010 2009 At 31 March m m a Moodys S&P credit rating Aaa AAA 100 90 Aa2 AA 609 124 Aa3 AA 202 271 A1 A 341 251 A2 A 3 2 1,255 738 a Cash equivalent balances with counterparties have been classified at the lower of their Moodys and S&P rating.
Cash and cash equivalents are primarily xed rate financial assets held for periods ranging from one day to three months.
Intangible assets Brands, customer Internally Telecommunication relationships developed Computer Goodwill licences and other and technology software software Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 April 2008 1,065 266 234 1,896 1,281 4,742 Additions 712 127 839 Acquisitions through business combinations 162 60 222 Disposals and adjustments 1 3 20 225 12 219 a Impairments 26 48 261 335 Exchange differences 269 44 88 13 69 483 At 1 April 2009 1,497 307 376 2,348 1,204 5,732 Additions 585 44 629 c Acquisitions through business combinations 1 1 b Interest on qualifying assets 2 2 Disposals and adjustments 2 6 3 362 9 364 Exchange differences 56 11 16 5 16 104 At 31 March 2010 1,440 290 357 2,568 1,241 5,896 Amortisation At 1 April 2008 121 67 520 716 1,424 Charge for the year 14 62 433 132 641 Disposals and adjustments 1 225 9 235 Exchange differences 22 24 11 49 106 At 1 April 2009 156 153 739 888 1,936 Charge for the year 15 54 559 107 735 Disposals and adjustments 4 1 366 53 424 Exchange differences 5 9 5 12 31 At 31 March 2010 162 197 927 930 2,216 Carrying amount At 31 March 2010 1,440 128 160 1,641 311 3,680 At 31 March 2009 1,497 151 223 1,609 316 3,796 a Impairment charges of 335m were recognised in 2009, comprising BT Global Services restructuring charges of 81m, BT Global Services contract and financial review charges of 241m see note 3 and 13m in relation to the review of the 21CN programme and associated voice strategy.
All impairment losses were recognised in the income statement.
The recoverable amount of the impaired assets was equal to their value in use.
b Additions to internally generated software in 2010 include interest capitalised at a weighted average borrowing rate of 7.9%.
c Additional earnout payment in respect of investment in BT Leasing Limited.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 55 10.
Intangible assets continued Goodwill impairment review The group performs an annual goodwill impairment review, based on its cash generating units CGUs.
The CGUs that have associated goodwill are BT Global Services and the following business units within BT Retail: BT Consumer, BT Business, BT Ireland and BT Enterprises.
These are the smallest identiable groups of assets that generate cash inows that are largely independent of the cash inows from other groups of assets, and to which goodwill is allocated.
Goodwill is allocated to the groups CGUs as follows: BT Retail BT Global Services BT Consumer BT Business BT Ireland BT Enterprises Total m m m m m m At 1 April 2008 913 47 34 16 55 1,065 Acquisitions through business combinations 74 10 10 68 162 Disposals, adjustments and reclassications 1 1 Exchange differences 252 17 269 At 1 April 2009 1,240 57 44 16 140 1,497 Acquisitions through business combinations 1 1 Disposals, adjustments and reclassications 9 8 17 5 23 2 Exchange differences 52 4 56 At 31 March 2010 1,180 65 61 21 113 1,440 The key assumptions used in performing value in use calculations in 2010 are as follows: BT Retail BT Global Services BT Consumer BT Business BT Ireland BT Enterprises Discount rate 10.8% 10.8% 10.8% 10.8% 10.8% Perpetuity growth rate 2.5% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% The key assumptions used in performing value in use calculations in 2009 were as follows: BT Retail BT Global Services BT Consumer BT Business BT Ireland BT Enterprises Discount rate 11.1% 11.1% 11.1% 11.1% 11.1% Perpetuity growth rate 2.5% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% Recoverable amount The value in use of each CGU is determined using cash ow projections derived from financial plans approved by the Board covering a three year period and a further two years approved by the line of business and group senior management team.
They reect managements expectations of revenue, EBITDA margins, capital expenditure, working capital and operating cash ows, based on past experience and future expectations of business performance.
Cash ows are also adjusted downwards to reect the different risk attributes of each CGU.
Cash ows beyond the five year period have been extrapolated using perpetuity growth rates.
Discount rate The pre-tax discount rates applied to the cash ow forecasts are derived from the groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital.
The assumptions used in the calculation of the groups weighted average cost of capital are benchmarked to externally available data.
Growth rates The perpetuity growth rates are determined based on the long-term historical growth rates of the regions in which the CGU operates, and they reect an assessment of the long-term growth prospects of the sector in which the CGU operates.
The growth rates have been benchmarked against external data for the relevant markets.
None of the growth rates applied exceed the long-term historical average growth rates for those markets or sectors.
Sensitivities For the BT Retail CGUs, significant headroom exists in each CGU and, based on the sensitivity analysis performed, no reasonably possible changes in the assumptions would cause the carrying amount of the CGUs to exceed their recoverable amount.
For BT Global Services, the value in use exceeds the carrying value of the CGU by approximately 725m.
The following changes in assumptions would cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying value a reduction in the perpetuity growth rate from the 2.5% assumption applied to a revised assumption of 0.5% or less an increase in the discount rate from the 10.8% assumption applied to a revised assumption of 12.2% or more a reduction in the projected operating cash ows across five years by 15% or more.
56 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 11.
Property, plant and equipment Assets in Network infrastructure course of a, b b c Land and buildings and equipment Other construction Total m m m m m Cost At 1 April 2008 1,209 39,117 2,194 1,240 43,760 Additions 8 238 187 1,813 2,246 Acquisition through business combinations 2 2 Transfers 16 2,045 19 2,080 Disposals and adjustments 3 373 169 71 610 d Impairments 121 8 18 147 Exchange differences 58 652 149 26 885 At 1 April 2009 1,294 41,558 2,374 910 46,136 Additions 22 254 144 1,441 1,861 e Interest on qualifying assets 11 Transfers 5 1,520 1 1,526 Disposals and adjustments 71 1,121 346 14 1,410 Exchange differences 13 131 22 5 171 At 31 March 2010 1,379 42,080 2,151 807 46,417 Accumulated depreciation At 1 April 2008 500 26,404 1,574 28,478 Charge for the year 56 1,928 265 2,249 Disposals and adjustments 4 395 209 600 Exchange differences 30 476 126 632 At 1 April 2009 590 28,413 1,756 30,759 Charge for the year 70 2,015 219 2,304 Disposals and adjustments 72 1,124 255 1,307 Exchange differences 7 103 14 124 At 31 March 2010 725 29,201 1,706 31,632 Carrying amount At 31 March 2010 654 12,879 445 807 14,785 Engineering stores 71 71 Total at 31 March 2010 654 12,879 445 878 14,856 At 31 March 2009 704 13,145 618 910 15,377 Engineering stores 28 28 Total at 31 March 2009 704 13,145 618 938 15,405 2010 2009 m m a The carrying amount of land and buildings, including leasehold improvements, comprised: Freehold 431 451 Long leases over 50 years unexpired 33 30 Short leases 190 223 Total land and buildings 654 704 b The carrying amount of the groups property, plant and equipment includes an amount of 183m 2009: 216m in respect of assets held under finance leases, comprising land and buildings of 74m 2009: 76m and network infrastructure and equipment of 109m 2009: 140m.
The depreciation charge on those assets for 2010 was 44m 2009: 49m, comprising land and buildings of 3m 2009: 3m and network infrastructure and equipment of 41m 2009: 46m.
c Other mainly comprises motor vehicles and computers.
d Impairment charges of 147m were recognised in 2009, comprising BT Global Services restructuring charges of 129m and 18m in relation to the review of the 21CN programme and associated voice strategy.
e Additions to assets in the course of construction in 2010 includes interest capitalised at a weighted average borrowing rate of 7.9%.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 57 11.
Property, plant and equipment continued 2010 2009 Year ended 31 March m m Additions to property, plant and equipment comprised: Land and buildings 29 23 Network infrastructure and equipment Transmission equipment 902 1,067 Exchange equipment 29 44 Other network equipment 753 899 Other Computers and ofce equipment 115 140 Motor vehicles and other 33 73 Total additions to property, plant and equipment 1,861 2,246 Increase in engineering stores 43 3 Total additions 1,904 2,249 12.
Investments 2010 2009 At 31 March m m Non current assets Available-for-sale 45 30 Amounts owed by ultimate parent company 160 Amounts owed by parent company 17,785 18,226 Loans and receivables 32 32 18,022 18,288 Current assets Available-for-sale 258 153 Amounts owed by parent company 705 404 Loans and receivables 148 10 1,111 567 The credit rating of counterparties with which current asset investments were held excluding amounts owed by parent and ultimate parent companies are detailed in the table below.
2010 2009 At 31 March m m a Moodys S&P credit rating Aaa AAA 258 153 Aa3 AA 35 A1 A 105 10 A2 A 8 Total current asset investments excluding amounts owed by parent and ultimate parent companies 406 163 a Current asset investment balances with counterparties have been classified at the lower of their Moodys and S&P rating.
The majority of current asset investments are held for periods ranging from one day to one year.
Available-for-sale Available-for-sale current assets consist of oating rate liquidity fund deposits denominated in Sterling of 185m 2009: 97m, Euros of 56m 2009: 43m and US Dollars of 17m 2009: 13m, which are immediately accessible to the group to manage liquidity.
Non current available-for-sale assets include an investment in the shares of the ultimate parent company, BT Group plc, of 11m 2009: 7m.
These shares are held in trust for the BT Group Incentive Share Plan, the Retention Share Plan and the Deferred Bonus Plan.
Amounts owed by parent and ultimate parent company Amounts owed by parent and ultimate parent company mainly consist of Sterling denominated loans which earn a oating rate of interest based upon LIBOR.
Further details of these amounts are disclosed in note 24.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables mainly consist of term deposits denominated in Sterling with a xed interest rate.
58 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 13.
Associates and joint ventures 2010 2009 Joint Joint Associates ventures Total Associates ventures Total m m m m m m Non current assets 49 7 56 41 7 48 Current assets 278 4 282 168 4 172 Current liabilities 77 2 79 86 2 88 Non current liabilities 64 64 Share of net assets at 31 March 186 9 195 123 9 132 Revenue 298 14 312 308 15 323 Expenses 266 14 280 262 15 277 Taxation 7 7 7 7 Share of post tax results before specic items 25 25 39 39 Specic items note 5 impact of renegotiated supply contracts on associate 29 29 reassessment of carrying value on associate 36 36 Share of post tax results 54 54 75 75 Associates Joint ventures Total m m m At 1 April 2008 79 6 85 Share of post tax profit 75 75 Dividends received 6 6 Exchange differences and other 25 3 22 At 1 April 2009 123 9 132 Share of post tax profit 54 54 Additions 3 3 Disposals note 5 12 12 Dividends received 3 3 Exchange differences and other 21 21 At 31 March 2010 186 9 195 At 31 March 2010 the fair value of the groups investments in associates and joint ventures for which published price quotations are available was 473m 2009: 153m.
Details of the groups principal associate at 31 March 2010 are set out on page 103.
Inventories 2010 2009 At 31 March m m Consumables 30 23 Work in progress 43 57 Finished goods 34 41 107 121 15.
Trade and other receivables 2010 2009 At 31 March m m Current Trade receivables 1,937 1,966 Amounts owed by parent company 14 10 Prepayments 549 825 Accrued income 1,010 1,135 Other receivables 200 259 3,710 4,195 2010 2009 m m Non current a Other assets 336 322 a Other assets mainly represents costs relating to the initial set up, transition or transformation phase of long-term networked IT services contracts.
Other assets also include prepayments of 42m 2009: nil.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 59 15.
Trade and other receivables continued Trade receivables are stated after deducting allowances for doubtful debts, as follows: 2010 2009 m m At 1 April 246 209 Expense recognised in the income statement 155 151 Utilised in the year 183 139 Acquisitions 4 Exchange differences 121 At 31 March 219 246 Trade receivables are continuously monitored and allowances applied against trade receivables consist of both specic impairments and collective impairments based on the groups historical loss experiences for the relevant aged category and taking into account general economic conditions.
Historical loss experience allowances are calculated by line of business in order to reect the specic nature of the customers relevant to that line of business.
Trade receivables are due as follows: Past due and not specically impaired: Trade receivables specically impaired net of Between 0 and Between 3 and Between 6 and Not past due provision 3 months 6 months 12 months Over 12 months Total m m m m m m m 2010 1,257 51 426 98 60 45 1,937 2009 1,263 1 474 90 65 73 1,966 Gross trade receivables which have been specically impaired amounted to 230m 2009: 30m.
Trade receivables not past due and accrued income are analysed below by line of business.
The nature of customers associated with each line of business is disclosed in note 1.
2010 2009 At 31 March m m BT Global Services 867 878 BT Retail 228 308 BT Wholesale 127 64 Openreach 27 3 Other 8 10 Total trade receivables not past due 1,257 1,263 2010 2009 At 31 March m m BT Global Services 633 635 BT Retail 148 274 BT Wholesale 182 195 Openreach 44 26 Other 3 5 Total accrued income 1,010 1,135 Given the broad and varied nature of the groups customer base, the analysis of trade receivables not past due and accrued income by line of business is considered the most appropriate disclosure of credit concentrations.
Cash collateral held against trade and other receivables amounted to 25m 2009: 23m.
60 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 16.
Loans and other borrowings 2010 2009 At 31 March m m b Sterling 6.375% bonds June 2037 521 521 a b US Dollar 9.625% 2009: 9.125% notes December 2030 minimum 8.625% 1,811 1,914 c Sterling 5.75% bonds December 2028 602 608 Sterling 3.5% indexed linked notes April 2025 325 330 Sterling 8.625% bonds March 2020 298 298 b US Dollar 5.95% bonds January 2018 734 777 b Sterling 6.625% bonds June 2017 525 524 a Sterling 8.5% 2009: 8.0% notes December 2016 minimum 7.5% 715 713 b Euro 6.5% bonds July 2015 935 973 b, h Euro 6.125% bonds July 2014 561 b Euro 5.25% bonds June 2014 696 723 b Euro 5.25% bonds January 2013 902 935 b US Dollar 5.15% bonds January 2013 566 599 a b Euro 7.87% 2009: 7.375% notes February 2011 minimum 6.875% 1,015 1,051 a b US Dollar 9.125% 2009: 8.625% notes December 2010 minimum 8.125% 1,951 2,074 d US Dollar 8.765% bonds August 2009 149 Total listed bonds, debentures and notes 12,157 12,189 Finance leases 304 332 b, e Commercial paper 715 Sterling 6.35% bank loan due August 2012 312 312 Sterling 10.4% bank loan due September 2009 140 Sterling oating rate note 2009-2010 28 Other loans 2009-2012 10 6 Bank overdrafts of which nil 2009: 160m had a legally enforceable right of set off see note 9 8 185 f Amounts due to ultimate parent company 123 g Amounts due to parent company 53 238 Total other loans and borrowings 383 1,747 Total loans and other borrowings 12,844 14,268 a The interest rate payable on these notes will be subject to adjustment from time to time if either Moodys or Standard and Poors S&P reduce the rating ascribed to the groups senior unsecured debt below A3 in the case of Moodys or below Ain the case of S&P.
In this event, the interest rate payable on the notes and the spread applicable to the floating notes will be increased by 0.25% for each ratings category adjustment by each rating agency.
In addition, if Moodys or S&P subsequently increase the ratings ascribed to the groups senior unsecured debt, then the interest rate then payable on notes and the spread applicable to the floating notes will be decreased by 0.25% for each rating category upgrade by each rating agency, but in no event will the interest rate be reduced below the minimum interest rate reflected in the above table.
In February 2010, S&P downgraded BTs credit rating by one ratings category to BBBas detailed on page 79.
At the next coupon date in the 2011 financial year, the rate payable on these bonds will therefore increase by 0.25 percentage points.
b Hedged in a designated cash flow hedge.
c Hedged in a designated fair value hedge.
d Hedged in a designated cash flow and fair value hedge.
e Commercial paper is denominated in Sterling of nil 2009: 209m and Euros of nil 2009: 506m.
f Amounts due to ultimate parent company are denominated in Sterling and incur a floating rate of interest based on LIBOR.
g Amounts due to parent company include loans denominated in Euros of 4m 2009: 202m and US Dollars of 1m 2009: 1m and incur floating rates of interest.
h The groups 600m bond issued in June 2009 would attract an additional 1.25 percentage points for a downgrade by one credit rating category by both Moodys and S&P below Baa3 BBBrespectively.
The interest rates payable on loans and borrowings disclosed above reect the coupons on underlying issued loans and borrowings and not the interest rates achieved through applying associated currency and interest rate swaps in hedge arrangements.
The carrying values disclosed above reect balances at amortised cost adjusted for deferred and current fair value adjustments to the relevant loans or borrowings hedged risk in a fair value hedge.
This does not reect the final principal repayment that will arise after taking account of the relevant derivatives in hedging relationships.
Apart from finance leases, all borrowings as at 31 March 2010 and 2009 were unsecured.
The oating rate loans and borrowings bear interest rates xed in advance for periods ranging from one day to one year, primarily by reference to LIBOR and EURIBOR quoted rates.
2010 2009 2010 2009 Repayment of outstanding Minimum lease payments lease obligations At 31 March m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 33 32 16 14 In the second to fifth years inclusive 119 135 48 66 After five years 422 456 240 252 574 623 304 332 Less: future finance charges 270 291 Total finance lease obligations 304 332 304 332 Assets held under finance leases mainly consist of buildings and network assets.
The groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 61 17.
Derivative financial instruments a a 2010 2009 2008 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities At 31 March m m m m m m Interest rate swaps cash ow hedge 361 446 1 207 Interest rate swaps fair value hedge 6 Other interest rate swaps 106 295 107 316 25 239 Cross currency swaps cash ow hedge 1,571 30 2,541 1 340 605 Cross currency swaps fair value hedge 18 20 Other cross currency swaps 1 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash ow hedge 23 4 27 1 20 1 Other forward foreign exchange contracts 2 721 Credit default swaps 1 1,700 699 2,700 767 387 1,072 Analysed as: Current 624 166 158 56 71 58 Non current 1,076 533 2,542 711 316 1,014 1,700 699 2,700 767 387 1,072 a Restated.
The credit rating of counterparties with which derivative financial assets were held is detailed in the table below.
2010 2009 At 31 March m m a Moodys S&P credit ratings Aa2 AA 89 200 Aa3 AA 480 650 A1 A 708 1,030 A2 A 318 719 A3 A 105 101 1,700 2,700 a Derivative financial instrument balances with counterparties have been classified at the lower of their Moodys and S&P rating.
In 2010 derivative financial assets were held with 18 counterparties 2009: 19 counterparties.
After applying the legal right of set off under the groups International Swaps and Derivative Association ISDA documentation, the group had a net exposure to derivative counterparties of 1,303m 2009: 2,282m.
Details of hedges in which the derivative financial instruments are utilised are disclosed in note 31.
Trade and other payables 2010 2009 At 31 March m m Current Trade payables 3,668 4,364 Amounts owed to parent company 173 76 Amounts owed to ultimate parent company 10 4 Other taxation and social security 516 489 Other payables 485 505 Accrued expenses 498 460 Deferred income 1,343 1,372 6,693 7,270 2010 2009 At 31 March m m Non current Other payables 734 718 Deferred income 70 76 804 794 Non current payables mainly relate to operating lease liabilities and deferred gains on a prior period sale and finance leaseback transaction.
62 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 19.
Provisions BT Global Property Other a b c Services provisions provisions provisions Total m m m m At 1 April 2009 303 172 245 720 d Charged to the income statement 10 131 204 345 Unwind of discount 4 4 Utilised in the year 139 35 98 272 Transfers 16 3147 Exchange differences 3 3 At 31 March 2010 187 272 382 841 2010 2009 At 31 March m m Analysed as: Current 134 254 Non current 707 466 841 720 a Amounts provided in relation to the BT Global Services restructuring programme and the contract and the financial reviews in 2009.
These will be utilised as the obligations are settled.
b Property provisions mainly comprise onerous lease provisions arising from the rationalisation of the groups property portfolio.
The provisions will be utilised over the remaining lease periods, which range from one to 22 years.
Financial liabilities comprise 255m 2009: 166m of this balance.
c Other provisions includes: Amounts provided for incremental and directly attributable costs arising from the groups obligation to deliver the Undertakings, which will be utilised within one year.
Amounts provided for legal or constructive obligations arising from insurance claims, litigation and regulatory risk, which will be utilised as the obligations are settled.
d Includes specific items of 121m for property rationalisation costs and 10m relating to the BT Global Services restructuring programme.
Deferred taxation ShareExcess capital Retirement benefit based a allowances obligations payments Other Total m m m m m As at 1 April 2008 1,969 778 51 183 2,513 Credit expense recognised in the income statement 158 78 32 7 41 Credit expense recognised in equity 1,959 12 77 1,870 At 31 March 2009 1,811 1,103 7 99 602 Deferred tax asset 1,103 1,103 Deferred tax liability 1,811 7 99 1,705 At 1 April 2009 1,811 1,103 7 99 602 Credit expense recognised in the income statement 115 118 15 2 10 Credit expense recognised in equity 1,211 19 120 1,350 Transfer from current tax 18 18 At 31 March 2010 1,696 2,196 41 199 740 Deferred tax asset 2,196 2,196 Deferred tax liability 1,696 41 199 1,456 At 31 March 2010 1,696 2,196 41 199 740 a Includes deferred tax asset of 3m 2009: nil arising on contributions payable to dened contribution schemes.
At 31 March 2010, all of the deferred tax asset of 2,196m 2009: 1,103m is expected to be recovered after more than one year.
At 31 March 2010, all of the deferred tax liability of 1,456m 2009: 1,705m is expected to be settled after more than one year.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 63 20.
Deferred taxation continued At 31 March 2010, the group had operating losses, capital losses and other temporary differences carried forward in respect of which no deferred tax assets were recognised amounting to 29.5bn 2009: 24.3bn.
The groups capital losses and other temporary differences have no expiry date restrictions.
The expiry date of operating losses carried forward is dependent upon the tax law of the various territories in which the losses arose.
A summary of expiry dates for losses in respect of which restrictions apply is set out below: 2010 At 31 March m Expiry of losses Restricted losses: Americas 284 2010-2029 Europe 1,719 2010-2025 Total restricted losses 2,003 Unrestricted losses: Operating losses 3,278 No expiry Capital losses 23,439 No expiry Other 775 No expiry Total unrestricted losses 27,492 Total 29,495 At 31 March 2010, the undistributed earnings of overseas subsidiaries was 5.5bn 2009: 10.1bn.
No deferred tax liabilities have been recognised in respect of these unremitted earnings because the group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates and joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised are insignicant.
Minority interests 2010 2009 m m At 1 April 27 22 Share of profits 12 Disposals 4 9 Acquisitions through business combinations 4 Minority share of dividends paid 1 Exchange differences 9 At 31 March 24 27 22.
Share capital a b Share capital Share premium m m Balances at 1 April 2009 and 31 March 2010 2,172 8,000 a The authorised share capital of the company up to 1 October 2009 was 2,625,000,001 divided into 10,500,000,004 ordinary shares of 25p each.
The allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary share capital of the company at 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 was 2,172m 2009: 2,172m, representing 8,689,755,905 ordinary shares 2009: 8,689,755,905. b The share premium account, representing the premium on allotment of shares, is not available for distribution.
64 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 23.
Other reserves Merger Total Cash ow  and other other a b c d reserve sale reserve reserve reserves reserves m m m m m At 1 April 2007 23 10 133 858 758 Exchange differences 194 194 Net fair value gain on cash ow hedges 446 446 Loss on available-for-sale assets 8 8 Recognised in income and expense in the year 294 6 300 Reclassied and reported in non current assets 11 11 Tax recognised in other comprehensive income 29 29 At 1 April 2008 157 4 61 858 1,072 Exchange differences 600 600 Net fair value gain on cash ow hedges 2,719 2,719 Recognised in income and expense in the year 2,144 3 2,141 Reclassied and reported in non current assets 5 5 Loss on available-for-sale investments 7 7 Tax recognised in other comprehensive income 164 164 At 1 April 2009 563 8 661 858 2,074 Exchange differences 112 112 Net fair value gain on cash ow hedges 1,067 1,067 Recognised in income and expense in the year 496 496 Reclassied and reported in non current assets 4 4 Gain on available-for-sale investments 11 11 Tax recognised in other comprehensive income 159 45 114 At 31 March 2010 147 3 504 858 1,512 a The cash flow reserve is used to record the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
b The available-for-sale reserve is used to record the cumulative fair value gains and losses on available-for-sale financial assets.
The cumulative gains and losses are recycled to the income statement on disposal of the assets.
The gross gain in the year amounted to 11m 2009: loss 7m.
c The translation reserve is used to record cumulative translation differences on the assets and liabilities of foreign operations.
The cumulative translation differences are recycled to the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
d The merger reserve arose on the group reorganisation that occurred in November 2001 and represented the difference between the nominal value of shares in the new ultimate parent company, BT Group plc, and the aggregate of the share capital, share premium account and capital redemption reserve of the prior ultimate parent company, British Telecommunications plc.
Related party transactions Amounts paid to the groups retirement benefit plans are set out in note 27.
There were a number of transactions during the year between the company and its subsidiary undertakings, which are eliminated on consolidation and therefore not disclosed.
British Telecommunications plc acts as a funder and deposit taker for cash related transactions for both its parent and ultimate parent company.
The loan arrangements described below with these companies reect this.
Cash transactions usually arise where the parent and ultimate parent company are required to meet their external payment obligations or receive amounts from third parties.
These principally relate to the payment of dividends, the buy back of shares and the exercise of share options.
Transactions between the ultimate parent company, parent company and the group are settled on both a cash and non-cash basis through these loan accounts depending on the nature of the transaction.
In the 2002 financial year, the group demerged its former mobile phone business and as a result BT Group plc became the listed ultimate parent company of the remaining group.
The demerger steps resulted in the formation of an intermediary holding company, BT Group Investments Limited, between BT Group plc and British Telecommunications plc.
This intermediary company held an investment of 18.5bn in British Telecommunications plc which was funded by an intercompany loan facility with British Telecommunications plc.
At 31 March 2010, the amount of loan outstanding amounted to 17,785m 2009: 18,226m of non current asset investments and 705m 2009: 404m of current assets investments see note 12 held by British Telecommunications plc and its subsidiaries.
The loan facility accrued interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 50 basis points, is subject to an overall maximum of 25bn, and is either repayable on demand or on 2 February 2015.
The amount of loan investments owed by the ultimate parent company was 160m 2009: nil of non current asset investments.
In the 2010 financial year, the overall loan investment balances were maintained at the same level as prior year with the mix increasing the level of shortterm loans.
Interest income of 282m was recognised in the 2010 financial year 2009: 1,005m, 2008: 1,184m see note 6.
The parent company primarily nances its obligations on the loan as they fall due through dividends paid by the company.
In addition, at 31 March 2010, the group had amounts payable to the parent company of 53m 2009: 238m which accrued interest charges of nil 2009: 15m and non interest bearing amounts receivable of 14m 2009: 10m and payable of 173m 2009: 76m.
The group also had amounts due to the ultimate parent company of nil 2009: 123m which accrued interest charges of 1m 2009: 25m.
At 31 March 2010, the group had a non interest bearing amount due to the ultimate parent company of 10m 2009: 4m.
The company holds ordinary shares in the ultimate parent company, disclosed in note 12.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 65 24.
Related party transactions continued Key management personnel are deemed to be the Chairman, non-executive directors and members of the Operating Committee of BT Group plc as described in note 1.
Of the seven 2009: seven, 2008: five members of the BT Group plc Operating Committee, three 2009 and 2008: four were members of the Board of the ultimate parent company.
It is the BT Group plc Operating Committee which has responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the group.
Key management personnel compensation is shown in the table below: a a 2010 2009 2008 m m m Salaries and short-term benets 10.3 8.4 8.3 Termination benets 0.1 2.4 Post employment benets 1.8 2.3 1.0 Share-based payments 2.6 3.6 5.0 14.8 16.7 14.3 a Restated to include the Chairman and non-executive directors.
During 2010, the group purchased services in the normal course of business and on an arms length basis from its principal associate, Tech Mahindra Limited.
The net value of services purchased was 301m 2009: 296m, 2008: 305m and the amount outstanding and payable for services at 31 March 2010 was 65m 2009: 89m, 2008: 125m.
In addition in 2010 a cash payment of 127m was made to Tech Mahindra Limited for the renegotiation of certain supply contracts as part of the rationalisation of procurement channels within BT Global Services.
In 2008, a cash payment of 55m was received from Tech Mahindra Limited, which was recognised as income in 2008 28m and 2009 27m.
Financial commitments and contingent liabilities Capital expenditure contracted for at the balance sheet date but not yet incurred was as follows: 2010 2009 m m Property, plant and equipment 368 414 Computer software 15 37 Total 383 451 Future minimum operating lease payments for the group were as follows: 2010 2009 m m Payable in the year ending 31 March: 2010 484 2011 494 455 2012 460 430 2013 431 403 2014 400 377 2015 375 356 Thereafter 5,527 5,499 Total future minimum operating lease payments 7,687 8,004 Operating lease commitments were mainly in respect of land and buildings which arose from a sale and operating leaseback transaction in a prior period.
Leases have an average term of 22 years 2009: 23 years and rentals are xed for an average of 22 years 2009: 23 years.
At 31 March 2010, other than as disclosed below, there were no contingent liabilities or guarantees other than those arising in the ordinary course of the groups business and on these no material losses are anticipated.
The group has insurance cover to certain limits for major risks on property and major claims in connection with legal liabilities arising in the course of its operations.
Otherwise, the group generally carries its own risks.
The group has provided guarantees relating to certain leases entered into by O UK Limited prior to its demerger with O on 19 November 2 2 2001.
O plc has given BT a counter indemnity for these guarantees.
The maximum exposure was US$132m as at 31 March 2010 2009: 2 US$110m, approximately 87m 2009: 77m, although this could increase by a further US$304m 2009: US$399m, approximately 200m 2009: 278m, in the event of credit default in respect of amounts used to defease future lease obligations.
The guarantee lasts until O UK 2 Limited has discharged all its obligations, which is expected to be when the lease ends on 30 January 2017.
We do not believe that there is any single current court action that would have a material adverse effect on the financial position or operations of the group.
However the aggregate volume and value of legal actions to which the group is party has increased signicantly during 2010.
There have been criminal proceedings in Italy against 21 defendants, including a former BT employee, in connection with the Italian UMTS universal mobile telecommunication system auction in 2000.
Blu, in which BT held a minority interest, participated in that auction process.
On 20 July 2005, the former BT employee was found not culpable of the fraud charge brought by the Rome Public Prosecutor.
All the other defendants were also acquitted.
The Public Prosecutor has appealed the courts decision.
The appeal was unsuccessful and no damages follow.
The European Commission formally investigated the way the UK Government set the rates payable on BTs infrastructure and those paid by Kingston Communications, and whether or not the UK Government complied with European Community Treaty rules on state aid.
The Commission concluded in October 2006 that no state aid had been granted.
The Commissions decision was appealed.
Judgement on the appeal has not yet been given but we continue to believe that any allegation of state aid is groundless and that the appeal will not succeed.
66 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 26.
Acquisitions There were no acquisitions in the year ended 31 March 2010.
A summary of the acquisitions made in 2009 is set out below.
BT Global Services BT Retail Other Total Year ended 31 March 2009 m m m m Fair value of consideration 77 98 75 250 Less: fair value of net assets acquired 36 24 28 88 Goodwill arising 41 74 47 162 Consideration: Cash 77 98 65 240 Deferred consideration 10 10 Total 77 98 75 250 The outow of cash and cash equivalents was as follows: Cash consideration 77 98 65 240 Less: cash acquired 735 15 70 95 60 225 BT Global Services During 2009 the group acquired 98.9% of the issued share capital of Net 2S SA and Stemmer GmbH and SND GmbH.
The total purchase consideration was 77m.
The combined net assets acquired and the goodwill arising were as follows: Book Fair value value adjustments Fair value m m m Intangible assets 1515 Property, plant and equipment 1 1 Receivables 41 41 Cash and cash equivalents 7 7 Payables 28 28 Net assets acquired 21 15 36 Goodwill 41 Total consideration 77 Intangible assets recognised comprised brands and customer relationships.
The goodwill comprised principally the assembled workforce and forecast synergies.
During 2010 the determination of fair values has been nalised.
No adjustments have been made to the balances previously reported.
BT Retail During 2009 the group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Wire One Holdings Inc and Undus Ltd for a total consideration 98m.
The combined net assets acquired in these transactions and the goodwill arising were as follows: Book Fair value value adjustments Fair value m m m Intangible assets 22123 Property, plant and equipment 2 2 Receivables 20 1 19 Cash and cash equivalents 3 3 Payables 22 1 23 Net assets acquired 51924 Goodwill 74 Total consideration 98 Intangible assets recognised in respect of these acquisitions comprised customer relationships, brand names and proprietary technology.
Goodwill arising on these acquisitions principally related to anticipated cost and revenue synergies and the assembled workforce.
During 2010, the determination of fair values has been nalised.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 67 26.
Acquisitions continued Other During 2009 the group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Moorhouse Consulting and Ribbit Corporation, for a total consideration of 75m, including 10m of deferred, contingent consideration.
The combined net assets acquired in these transactions and the goodwill arising were as follows: Book Fair value value adjustments Fair value m m m Intangible assets 2525 Receivables 2 2 Cash and cash equivalents 5 5 Payables 4 4 Net assets acquired 32528 Goodwill 47 Total consideration 75 Intangible assets recognised in respect of these acquisitions comprised internally developed technology.
Goodwill on the acquisitions principally related to cost savings and other synergies.
During 2010 the determination of fair values has been nalised and adjustments have been made to the balances previously reported.
Prior year balances have not been restated as the amount is not significant to the group.
Retirement benefit plans Background The group offers retirement benefit plans to its employees.
The groups main scheme, the BT Pension Scheme BTPS, is a dened benefit scheme.
This scheme has been closed to new entrants since 31 March 2001 when it was replaced by a dened contribution scheme, the BT Retirement Plan BTRP which was closed on 31 March 2009.
On 1 April 2009 BT set up the BT Retirement Saving Scheme, a contract based dened contribution arrangement, to which BTRP members were invited to transfer their accumulated assets.
The total pension cost of the group for 2010, included within staff costs, was 304m 2009: 543m, 2008: 626m.
The total cost associated with the groups dened benefit pension schemes for 2010 was 206m 2009: 459m, 2008: 576m.
Dened contribution schemes The income statement charge in respect of dened contribution schemes represents the contribution payable by the group based upon a xed percentage of employees pay.
The total pension cost for 2010 in respect of the groups main dened contribution scheme was 66m 2009: 47m, 2008: 37m and 6m 2009: 4m, 2008: 3m of contributions were outstanding at 31 March 2010.
Dened benefit schemes BT Pension Scheme Trustees Limited administers and manages the scheme on behalf of the members in accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed of the scheme and relevant legislation.
Under the terms of the Trust Deed of the BTPS, there are nine Trustee directors appointed by the group, five of which appointments are made with the agreement of the relevant trade unions, including the Chairman of the Trustee.
Four Trustee directors, other than the Chairman, are appointed by BT on the nomination of the relevant trade unions.
Two of the Trustee directors will normally hold senior positions within the group, and two will normally hold or have held senior positions in commerce or industry.
Subject to there being an appropriately qualied candidate, there should be at least one current pensioner or deferred pensioner of the BTPS as one of the Trustee directors.
Trustee directors are appointed for a three-year term, but are then eligible for re-appointment.
Measurement of scheme assets and liabilities IAS 19 Scheme assets are measured at the bid market value at the balance sheet date.
The liabilities of the BTPS are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash ows to be paid out by the scheme using the projected unit credit method.
Estimated future cash ows are discounted at the current rate of return on high quality corporate bonds of an equivalent term to the liability.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the year in which they occur in the statement of comprehensive income.
IAS 19 requires that the discount rate used be determined by reference to market yields at the reporting date on high quality corporate bonds.
The currency and term of these should be consistent with the currency and estimated term of the pension obligations.
The discount rate has been assessed by reference to the duration of the BTPSs liabilities and by reference to the published iBoxx index of Sterling corporate bonds of duration greater than 15 years and investment grade AA and above.
Allowance is made where the constituent bonds in the published index have been re-rated or new issues made.
The rate of ination inuences the assumptions for salary and pension increase.
This has been assessed by reference to yields on long-term xed and index-linked Government bonds and has regard to Bank of England published inationary expectations.
Salary increases are assumed to be in line with ination.
68 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 27.
Retirement benefit plans continued The financial assumptions used to measure the net pension obligation of the BTPS under IAS 19 at 31 March 2010 are as follows: Real rates per annum Nominal rates per annum 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 At 31 March % %% % %% Rate used to discount liabilities 1.83 3.84 3.24 5.50 6.85 6.85 a a Average future increases in wages and salaries 0.75 3.60 2.90 4.28 Average increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 3.60 2.90 3.50 Ination average increase in retail price index n a n a n a 3.60 2.90 3.50 a There is a short-term reduction in the real salary growth assumption to 0.5% for the first three years.
The assumptions about life expectancy have regard to information published by the UK actuarial professions Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau.
However, due to the size of the membership of the BTPS 333,000 members at 31 December 2009 it is considered appropriate for the life expectancy assumptions adopted to take in to account the actual membership experience.
Allowance is also made for future improvements in mortality.
The BTPS actuary undertakes formal reviews of the membership experience every three years.
The IAS 19 life expectancy assumptions reect the 2008 triennial funding valuation basis.
The average life expectancy assumptions, after retirement at 60 years of age, are as follows: 2010 2009 Number of years Number of years Male in lower pay bracket 25.2 24.8 Male in higher pay bracket 27.4 27.1 Female 28.1 27.7 Future improvement every 10 years 1.1 1.0 Amounts recognised in respect of dened benefit schemes The net pension obligation is set out below: 2010 2009 Present value Present value Assets of liabilities Obligation Assets of liabilities Obligation At 31 March m m m m m m BTPS 35,278 43,018 7,740 29,227 33,070 3,843 a Other schemes 151 275 124 126 256 130 35,429 43,293 7,864 29,353 33,326 3,973 Deferred tax asset 2,193 1,103 Net pension obligation 5,671 2,870 a Included in the present value of liabilities of other schemes is 54m 2009: 52m related to unfunded schemes.
Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the groups pension schemes were as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Year ended 31 March m m m Current service cost including dened contribution schemes 304 543 626 Total operating charge 304 543 626 Expected return on pension scheme assets 1,932 2,621 2,448 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 2,211 2,308 2,028 Net finance expense income 279 313 420 Total recognised in the income statement 583 230 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 69 27.
Retirement benefit plans continued The present value of the obligation is derived from long-term cash ow projections and is thus inherently uncertain.
The benets payable by the BTPS are expected to be paid as follows: m Forecast benets payable by the BTPS at 31 March 2010 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 31 Mar 2011 31 Mar 2034 31 Mar 2057 31 Mar 2080 31 Mar 2103 An analysis of actuarial gains and losses and the actual return on plan assets is shown below: 2010 2009 2008 Year ended 31 March m m m Actuarial loss gain recognised in the year 4,324 7,037 2,621 Cumulative actuarial losses gains 4,915 591 6,446 Actual return on plan assets 7,089 6,830 124 Changes in the present value of the dened benefit pension obligation are as follows: 2010 2009 Year ended 31 March m m Opening dened benefit pension obligation 33,326 34,669 Current service cost 206 459 Interest expense 2,211 2,308 Contributions by employees 15 18 Actuarial loss gain 9,481 2,414 Business combinations 4 Benets paid 1,948 1,741 Exchange differences 2 23 Closing dened benefit pension obligation 43,293 33,326 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2010 2009 Year ended 31 March m m Opening fair value of plan assets 29,353 37,448 Expected return 1,932 2,621 Actuarial gain loss 5,157 9,451 Regular contributions by employer 391 441 deficiency contributions by employer 525 Contributions by employees 15 18 Benets paid 1,948 1,741 Exchange differences 417 Closing fair value of plan assets 35,429 29,353 70 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 27.
Retirement benefit plans continued The BTPS assets are invested in UK and overseas equities, UK and overseas properties, xed interest and index-linked securities, alternative assets, deposits and short-term investments.
At 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009, the schemes assets did not include any ordinary shares of the company.
However, the scheme held 52m 2009: 65m of bonds and 6m 2009: 5m of index-linked notes issued by the group.
The group occupies four 2009: two properties owned by the BTPS on which an annual rental of 0.2m is payable 2009: 0.1m.
The Trustees main investment objective is to ensure that over the long-term, and after allowing for all future income, the BTPS will always have sufficient liquid resources to meet the cost of benefit payments to be made as they fall due.
The strategic allocation of assets between different classes of investment is reviewed regularly and is a key factor in the Trustees investment policy.
The targets set reect the Trustees views on the appropriate balance to be struck between seeking high returns and incurring risk, and on the extent to which the assets should be distributed to match its liabilities.
The targets are a long-term aim to be achieved over a period as and when favourable opportunities arise.
Current market conditions and trends are continuously assessed and short-term tactical shifts in asset allocation may be made around the long-term strategic target, for example, by using stock index future contracts.
The BTPS uses financial instruments to manage interest rate risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk.
Exposure to interest rate uctuations on its borrowings and deposits is managed by using interest rate swaps.
Liquidity risk is managed by maintaining a balance between continuity of funding and exibility through the use of borrowings with a range of maturities.
The BTPS has significant investments overseas, as a result of which the value of the schemes assets can be signicantly affected by movements in foreign currencies against Sterling.
A portion of the exposure to foreign currencies embedded in the overseas assets is hedged back into Sterling to remove some of the currency risk.
The assumptions for the expected long-term rate of return and the fair values of the assets of the BTPS at 31 March were: At 31 March 2010 At 31 March 2009 Expected longExpected longterm rate of term rate of return return per annum Asset fair value Target per annum Asset fair value Target % bn%% % bn % % UK equities 8.5 3.6 10 11 8.5 3.2 11 11 Non-UK equities 8.5 7.5 21 22 8.5 5.9 20 22 Fixed-interest securities 5.0 5.9 17 20 5.9 6.6 22 20 Index-linked securities 4.2 5.8 16 15 4.0 4.4 15 15 Property 7.7 3.8 11 12 7.0 3.2 11 12 Alternative assets 6.9 5.9 17 20 7.0 5.2 18 20 Cash and other 4.2 2.8 8 3.5 0.8 3 6.5 35.3 100 100 6.7 29.3 100 100 The assumption for the expected return on scheme assets is a weighted average based on the assumed expected return for each asset class and the proportions held of each asset class at the beginning of the year.
The expected returns on xed interest and index-linked securities are based on the gross redemption yields at the start of the year.
Expected returns on equities, property and alternative asset classes are based on a combination of an estimate of the risk premium above yields on government bonds, consensus economic forecasts of future returns and historical returns.
Alternative asset classes include commodities, hedge funds, private equity, infrastructure and credit opportunities.
The long-term expected rate of return on investments does not affect the level of the obligation but does affect the expected return on pension scheme assets within the net finance expense.
The history of experience gains and losses are as follows: 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m Present value of dened benefit obligation 43,293 33,326 34,669 38,779 38,187 Fair value of plan assets 35,429 29,353 37,448 38,390 35,640 Net pension obligation asset 7,864 3,973 2,779 389 2,547 Experience adjustment on dened benefit obligation gain loss 1,632 238 22 190 527 Percentage of the present value of the dened benefit obligation 3.8% 0.7% 0.1% 0.5% 1.4% Experience adjustment on plan assets gain loss 5,157 9,451 2,572 993 4,855 Percentage of the plan assets 14.6% 32.2% 6.9% 2.6% 13.6% The group expects to contribute approximately 669m to the BTPS in 2011, including deficiency contributions of 525m.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 71 27.
Retirement benefit plans continued Sensitivity analysis of the principal assumptions used to measure BTPS liabilities The assumed discount rate, life expectancy and salary increases all have a significant effect on the measurement of scheme liabilities.
The following table shows the sensitivity of the valuation of the pension obligations, and of the prospective 2011 income statement charge, to changes in these assumptions: Decrease Decrease Decrease increase in increase in increase in net finance liability service cost expense bn m m 0.25 percentage point increase to: discount rate 1.6 15 15 salary increases 0.2 15 Additional 1 year increase to life expectancy 1.0 10 55 0.1 percentage point increase in expected return on assets 35 The sensitivities relating to the discount rate, ination rate and expected return on assets in respect of the pension cost elements in the income statement are shown for information only.
The amounts that will be recognised in the income statement in 2011 are derived from market conditions at 1 April 2010.
Subsequent changes in market conditions will have no effect on the income statement in 2011 and will be reected as actuarial gains and losses in the Statement of comprehensive income.
Funding valuation and future funding obligations A triennial valuation is carried out for the independent Trustee by a professionally qualied independent actuary, using the projected unit credit method.
The purpose of the valuation is to design a funding plan to ensure that present and future contributions should be sufficient to meet future liabilities.
The funding valuation is based on prudent assumptions and is performed at 31 December as this is the financial year end of the BTPS.
The valuation basis for funding purposes is broadly as follows: scheme assets are valued at market value at the valuation date: and scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit credit method and discounted to their present value.
The outcome of the latest triennial actuarial funding valuation at 31 December 2008 was announced on 11 February 2010, together with the agreement between BT and the Trustee of the BTPS to a recovery plan to make good the 9.0bn funding deficit.
Whilst the valuation and the recovery plan have been agreed with the Trustee, they are currently under review by the Pensions Regulator.
However, the Pensions Regulators initial view is that they have substantial concerns with certain features of the agreement.
BT and the Trustee continue to work with the Pensions Regulator to help them complete their detailed review.
The Pensions Regulator has indicated it will discuss its position with us once they have completed their review.
Accordingly, as matters stand, it is uncertain as to whether the Pensions Regulator will take any further action.
This uncertainty is outside of our control.
Since the valuation date the schemes assets have increased by 4.1bn and the Trustee estimates that if the funding valuation was performed at 31 December 2009 the deficit would have been about 7.5bn on this prudent valuation basis.
The last two triennial valuations were determined using the following long-term assumptions: Real rates per annum Nominal rates per annum 2008 2005 2008 2005 valuation valuation valuation valuation %%%% Discount rate Pre retirement liabilities 3.65 3.06 6.76 5.84 Post retirement liabilities 2.15 1.79 5.21 4.54 Average increase in retail price index 3.00 2.70 Average future increases in wages and salaries 0.75 3.00 3.47 Average increase in pensions 3.00 2.70 At 31 December 2008 the assets of the BTPS had a market value of 31.2bn 2005: 34.4bn and were sufficient to cover 77.6% 2005: 90.9% of the benets accrued by that date.
This represented a funding deficit of 9.0bn compared with 3.4bn at 31 December 2005.
The funding valuation uses prudent assumptions.
In the three years ended 31 December 2008, the decline in the market value of assets combined with longer life expectancy assumptions signicantly increased the funding deficit, although the impact on the liabilities was reduced by the higher discount rate and favourable experience compared to other actuarial assumptions used at 31 December 2005.
Following the agreement of the valuation the ordinary contributions rate reduced to 13.6% of pensionable salaries including employee contributions from 19.5%, reecting the implementation of benefit changes with effect from 1 April 2009, following the UK pensions review.
In addition, the group will make deficit payments of 525m per annum for the first three years of the 17 year recovery plan, the first payment of which was made in December 2009.
The payment in the fourth year will be 583m, then increasing at 3% per annum.
The payments in years four to 17 are equivalent to 533m per annum in real terms.
Under the 2005 valuation deficit contributions were 280m per annum for 10 years.
In 2010, the group made regular contributions of 384m 2009: 433m and deficit contributions of 525m.
No deficit contributions were made in 2009 as they were paid in advance during 2008.
Other features of the legal agreements with the Trustee for BT providing support to the scheme are: In the event that cumulative shareholder distributions exceed cumulative total pension contributions over the three year period to 31 December 2011, then BT will make additional matching contributions to the scheme.
Total pension contributions including regular contributions are expected to be approximately 2.4bn over the three financial years.
72 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 27.
Retirement benefit plans continued In the event that BT generates net cash proceeds greater than 1bn from disposals and acquisitions in any 12 month period to 31 December 2011 then BT will make additional contributions to the scheme equal to one third of those net cash proceeds.
A negative pledge that provides comfort to the scheme that future creditors will not be granted superior security to the scheme in excess of a 1.5bn threshold.
The intention is for there to be sufficient assets in the scheme to pay pensions now and in the future.
Without any further contribution from the company, it is estimated that at 31 December 2008, the assets of the scheme would have been sufficient to provide around 57% of the members benets with an insurance company.
If the group were to become insolvent, however, there are a number of additional protections available to members.
Firstly, there is the Crown Guarantee which was granted when the group was privatised in 1984.
The scope and extent of the Crown Guarantee is being confirmed by the Trustee through the courts.
This applies, on a winding up of the group, as a minimum to pension entitlements for anyone who joined the scheme before 6 August 1984, and to payments to beneciaries of such persons.
Secondly, the Pension Protection Fund PPF may take over the scheme and pay certain benets to members.
There are limits on the amounts paid by the PPF and this would not give exactly the same benets as those provided by the scheme.
Under the terms of the Trust Deed that governs the BTPS, the group is required to have a funding plan that should address the deficit over a maximum period of 20 years.
The BTPS was closed to new entrants on 31 March 2001 and the age prole of active members will consequently increase.
Under the projected unit credit method, the current service cost, as a proportion of the active members pensionable salaries, is expected to increase as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
Despite the scheme being closed to new entrants, the projected payment prole extends over more than 60 years.
Directors emoluments and pensions For the year to 31 March 2010 the aggregate emoluments of the directors excluding deferred bonuses of 1,569,500 2009: 420,000 was 3,407,000 2009: 3,354,000.
Deferred bonuses are payable in 5p ordinary shares of BT Group plc in three years time subject to continuous employment.
Retirement benets were accruing to one director 2009: two under a dened benets pension scheme.
During the year no director exercised options 2009: one under BT Group share option plans.
Three directors who held ofce for the whole or part of the year 2009: five received or are entitled to receive 5p ordinary shares of BT Group plc under BT long-term incentive plans.
The aggregate value of BT Group plc shares vested in directors during the year under BT long-term incentive plans was 407,165 2009: 4,506,562.
The emoluments of the highest paid director excluding his deferred bonus of 1,206,000 2009: 343,000 were 2,105,000 2009: 1,003,000.
He is entitled to receive 4,126,387 BT Group plc 5p ordinary shares under BT long-term incentive plans subject to continuous employment and in some cases to certain performance conditions being met.
There are no retirement benets accruing to the highest paid director under a dened benefit scheme.
Included in the above aggregate emoluments are those of Ian Livingston and Tony Chanmugam who are also directors of the ultimate holding company, BT Group plc.
The directors do not believe it is practicable for the purposes of this report to apportion the amounts of total emoluments received by them between their services as directors of the company and their services as directors of BT Group plc.
Share-based payments The total charge recognised in 2010 in respect of share-based payments was 71m 2009: 141m, 2008: 73m.
The ultimate parent company, BT Group plc, has an employee share investment plan and savings-related share option plans for its employees and those of participating subsidiaries, further share option plans for selected employees and an employee stock purchase plan for employees in the United States.
It also has several share plans for executives.
All share-based payment plans are equity settled and details of these plans and an analysis of the total charge by type of award is set out below.
a 2010 2009 2008 Year ended 31 March m m m Employee Sharesave Plan 25 107 29 Allshare International 2 22 Employee Stock Purchase Plan 1 1 Incentive Share Plan 29 18 26 Deferred Bonus Plan 13 12 12 Retention Share Plan 1 23 71 141 73 a Restated for the adoption of the amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations.
Share options BT Group Employee Sharesave Plans There is an HMRC approved savings related share option plan, under which employees save on a monthly basis, over a three or five-year period, towards the purchase of shares at a xed price determined when the option is granted.
This price is usually set at a 20% discount to the market price for five year plans and 10% for three year plans.
The options must be exercised within six months of maturity of the savings contract, otherwise they lapse.
Similar plans operate for BTs overseas employees.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan The BT Group Employee Stock Purchase Plan ESPP, for employees in the US, enables participants to purchase American Depositary Shares ADSs quarterly at a price which is 85% of the fair market price of an ADS at the end of each quarterly purchase period.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 73 29.
Share-based payments continued The following are legacy option plans which are no longer operated by the ultimate parent company.
BT Group Global Share Option Plan GSOP The options granted in previous years were exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to continued employment and meeting corporate performance targets.
Options must be exercised within ten years of the grant date.
BT Group Legacy Option Plan GLOP On the demerger of O, BTs share option plans ceased to operate and were replaced by similar BT Group Employee Sharesave plans and the BT 2 Group GSOP.
The BT GLOP was launched on 17 December 2001 following the scheme of arrangement and demerger of O in November 2001, 2 and is therefore outside the scope of IFRS 2.
The options were exercisable subject to continued employment and meeting corporate performance targets.
Options must be exercised within 10 years of the original grant date.
Share plans Employee Share Investment Plan ESIP The ESIP is an HMRC approved plan.
It allows BT employees to buy shares with contributions of up to 1,500 per tax year out of gross pay directshare and allows BT to provide free shares to UK employees which are held in trust for at least three years allshare.
In 2008, allshare was replaced by free broadband for all BT employees in the UK.
Employees outside the UK continue to receive awards of shares where practicable, otherwise they will receive awards equivalent to the value of free shares.
During 2010, 13.7m directshare shares 2009: 10.7m directshare shares, were purchased by the Trustee of the ESIP on behalf of 19,730 2009: 20,384 employees at a total cost of 15.0m 2009: 16.4m.
A further 1.0m shares 2009: 3.3m shares were purchased by the Trustee through dividend reinvestment on behalf of 20,120 2009: 21,782 allshare and directshare employee participants.
At 31 March 2010 79.2m shares 2009: 75.9m shares were held in trust on behalf of 68,444 participants 2009: 76,678.
Incentive Share Plan, Retention Share Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan Under the BT Group Incentive Share Plan ISP, participants are only entitled to these shares in full at the end of a three-year period if the company has met the relevant pre-determined corporate performance measure and if the participants are still employed by the group.
In 2010, the corporate performance measure for the ISP was amended.
For all ISP awards made in 2010, 50% of each share award is linked to a total shareholder return target TSR for a revised comparator group of companies from the beginning of the relevant performance period and the remaining 50% is linked to a three year cumulative free cash ow measure.
The revised comparator group contains European telecommunications companies and companies which are either similar in size or market capitalisation and or have a similar business mix and spread to BT.
For ISP awards in prior periods, a single corporate performance measure was used, being BTs TSR measured against a comparator group of companies from the European telecommunications sector.
Under the BT Group Retention Share Plan RSP, the length of retention period before awards vest is exible.
Awards may vest annually in tranches.
The shares are transferred at the end of a specified period, only if the employee is still employed by the group.
Under the BT Group Deferred Bonus Plan DBP awards are granted annually to selected employees of the group.
Shares in the company are transferred to participants at the end of three years if they continue to be employed by the group throughout that period.
In accordance with the terms of the ISP, RSP and DBP, dividends or dividend equivalents earned on shares during the conditional periods are reinvested in company shares for the potential benefit of the participants.
74 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 29.
Share-based payments continued Share option plans Activity relating to share options during 2010, 2009 and 2008 is shown below.
Employee Sharesave GSOP and GLOP 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Movement in the number of share options: millions millions millions millions millions millions Outstanding at the beginning of the year 136 281 272 42 46 103 Granted 490 339 54 Forfeited 44 390 15 4 3 10 Exercised 1 80 28 1 14 Expired 47 14 2 33 Outstanding at the end of the year 534 136 281 38 42 46 Exercisable at the end of the year 1 12 38 42 46 Weighted average exercise price: Outstanding at the beginning of the year 160p 180p 165p 256p 257p 227p Granted 63p 135p 269p Forfeited 107p 153p 208p 263p 199p 251p Exercised 125p 155p 188p 196p 198p Expired 150p 178p 179p 199p Outstanding at the end of the year 76p 160p 180p 255p 256p 257p Exercisable at the end of the year 163p 195p 158p 255p 256p 257p The weighted average share price for options exercised during the year was 136p 2009: 180p, 2008: 293p.
The following table summarises information relating to options outstanding and exercisable under all share option plans at 31 March 2010, together with their exercise prices and dates: Number of Number of Exercise outstanding exercisable price options options Normal dates of vesting and exercise based on calendar year per share millions millions BT Group Employee Sharesave Plans 2010 171p 294p 16 1 2011 137p 208p 12 2012 68p 262p 143 2013 185p 8 2014 61p 111p 355 Total 534 1 BT Group Legacy Option Plan 20012011 318p 648p 8 8 Total 88 BT Group Global Share Option Plan 20042014 176p 199.5p 24 24 20052015 179p 263p 6 6 Total 30 30 Total options 572 39 Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 75 29.
Share-based payments continued The options outstanding under all share option plans at 31 March 2010, have weighted average remaining contractual lives as follows: Employee Sharesave GSOP and GLOP Weighted Number of Weighted Weighted Number of Weighted average outstanding average average outstanding average exercise options contractual Range of exercise options contractual Range of exercise prices price millions remaining life exercise prices price millions remaining life 61p 68p 63p 465 48 months 100p 199p 143p 57 32 months 150p 317p 198p 30 52 months 200p 300p 242p 12 26 months 318p 650p 424p 8 8 months Total 534 38 Executive share plans Movements in executive share plans during 2010 are shown below: Millions of shares ISP DBP RSP Total At 1 April 2009 75.2 15.5 1.5 92.2 Awards granted 50.0 4.5 0.3 54.8 Awards vested 5.0 0.6 5.6 Awards lapsed 28.4 1.1 29.5 Dividend shares reinvested 2.4 0.4 2.8 At 31 March 2010 99.2 14.3 1.2 114.7 At 31 March 2010 1.1m shares 2009: 1.3m were held in trust and 113.6m shares 2009: 90.9m were held in treasury by the ultimate parent company for executive share plans.
Fair value The following table summarises the fair values and key assumptions used for grants made under the Employee Sharesave plans and ISP in 2010, 2009 and 2008.
2010 2009 2008 Employee Employee Employee Year ended 31 March Sharesave ISP Sharesave ISP Sharesave ISP Weighted average fair value 14p 106p 27p 47p 71p 182p Weighted average share price 80p 131p 152p 199p 329p 306p Weighted average exercise price 63p 135p 269p Expected dividend yield 5.7%-6.4% 6.5% 4.6%-6.4% 4.9% 5.5% 5.5% Risk free rates 2.2%-2.8% 2.5% 2.1%-5.5% 5.2% 5.8% 5.8% Expected volatility 26.9%-30.7% 38.5% 20.7%-28.4% 23.3% 22.0% 18.0% Employee Sharesave grants, under the BT Group Employee Sharesave and the BT Group International Employee Sharesave option plans, are valued using a Binomial option pricing model.
Awards under the ISP are valued using Monte Carlo simulations.
TSRs were generated for BT and the comparator group at the end of the three year performance period, using each companys volatility and dividend yield, as well as the cross correlation between pairs of stocks.
Volatility has been determined by reference to BT Group plcs historical volatility which is expected to reect the BT Group plc share price in the future.
An expected life of three months after vesting date is assumed for Employee Sharesave options and for all other awards the expected life is equal to the vesting period.
The risk free interest rate is based on the UK gilt curve in effect at the time of the grant, for the expected life of the option or award.
The fair values for the RSP and DBP were determined using the market price of the shares at the date of grant.
The weighted average share price for RSP awards granted in 2010 was 104p 2009: 151p, 2008: 310p.
The weighted average share price for DBP awards granted in 2010 was 131p 2009: 203p, 2008: 319p.
76 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 30.
Audit and non-audit services The following fees for audit and non-audit services were paid or are payable to the companys auditors,  LLP, for the three years ended 31 March 2010.
2010 2009 2008 Year ended 31 March 000 000 000 Audit services Fees payable to the companys auditor and its associates for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 2,544 2,790 2,950 Non-audit services Fees payable to the companys auditor and its associates for other services: a The audit of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 4,732 4,675 3,848 a Other services pursuant to legislation 867 1,211 1,590 Tax services 792 1,247 727 b Services relating to corporate finance transactions 32 549 All other services 941 887 527 9,876 10,842 10,191 a These services are audit services as defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
AU Section 550 PCAOB AU Section 550. b These services are audit related services as defined by the PCAOB AU Section 550.
Audit services represents fees payable for services in relation to the audit of the parent company and the consolidated financial statements and also includes fees for reports under section 404 of the US Public Company Accounting Reform and Investor Protection Act of 2002 SarbanesOxley.
The audit of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation represents fees payable for services in relation to the audit of the financial statements of subsidiary companies.
Other services pursuant to legislation represents fees payable for services in relation to other statutory lings or engagements that are required to be carried out by the appointed auditor.
In particular, this includes fees for audit reports issued on the groups regulatory financial statements.
Tax services represents fees payable for tax compliance and advisory services.
Services relating to corporate finance transactions represent fees payable in relation to due diligence work completed on acquisitions and disposals.
All other services represents fees payable for non regulatory reporting on internal controls and other advice on accounting or financial matters.
In order to maintain the independence of the external auditors, the Board has determined policies as to what non-audit services can be provided by the companys external auditors and the approval processes related to them.
Under those policies, work of a consultancy nature will not be offered to the external auditors unless there are clear efficiencies and value-added benets to the company.
Financial instruments and risk management The group issues or holds financial instruments mainly to finance its operations: to finance corporate transactions such as dividends and acquisitions: for the temporary investment of short-term funds: and to manage the currency and interest rate risks arising from its operations and from its sources of finance.
In addition, various financial instruments, for example trade receivables and trade payables, arise directly from the groups operations.
Funding and exposure management The group nances its operations primarily by a mixture of issued share capital, retained profits, deferred taxation and long-term and short-term borrowing.
The group borrows in the major long-term bond markets in major currencies and typically, but not exclusively, these markets provide the most cost effective means of long-term borrowing.
The group uses derivative financial instruments primarily to manage its exposure to changes in interest and foreign exchange rates against these borrowings.
The derivatives used for this purpose are principally interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts.
The group also uses forward currency contracts to hedge some of its currency exposures arising from funding its overseas operations, acquisitions, overseas assets, liabilities and forward purchase commitments.
The group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
All transactions in derivative financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities.
Treasury operations The group has a centralised treasury operation whose primary role is to manage liquidity, funding, investments and counterparty credit risk arising from transactions with financial institutions.
This treasury operation also manages the groups market risk exposures, including risks arising from volatility in currency and interest rates.
The treasury operation acts as a central bank to members of the group providing central deposit taking, funding and foreign exchange management services.
Funding and deposit taking is usually provided in the functional currency of the relevant entity.
The treasury operation is not a profit centre and its objective is to manage financial risk at optimum cost.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 77 31.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Treasury policy The BT Group plc Board sets the policy for the groups treasury operation and its activities are subject to a set of controls commensurate with the magnitude of the borrowings and investments and group wide exposures under its management.
The BT Group plc Board has delegated its authority to operate these polices to a series of panels that are responsible for the management of key treasury risks and operations.
Appointment to and removal from the key panels requires approval from two of the Chairman, the Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director of the BT Group plc Board.
The key policies dened by the BT Group plc Board are highlighted in each of the sections below.
The financial risk management of exposures arising from trading related financial instruments, primarily trade receivables and trade payables, is through a series of policies and procedures set at a group and line of business level.
Line of business management apply these policies and procedures and perform review processes to assess and manage financial risk exposures arising from these financial instruments.
There has been no change in the nature of the groups risk prole between 31 March 2010 and the date of approval of these financial statements.
Capital management The objective of BT Group plcs capital management policy is to reduce debt whilst investing in the business, supporting the pension scheme and delivering progressive dividends.
In order to meet this objective, BT Group plc may issue or repay debt, issue new shares, repurchase shares, or adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders.
BT Group plc manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the group.
The BT Group plc Board regularly reviews the capital structure.
No changes were made to the groups objectives and processes during 2010 and 2009.
The BT Group plc groups capital structure consists of net debt, committed facilities and shareholders equity excluding the cash ow reserve.
The following analysis summarises the components which are managed as capital by BT Group plc: 2010 2009 2008 At 31 March m m m Total ultimate parent shareholders deficit equity excluding cash ow reserve 2,797 421 5,252 BT Group plc consolidated net debt 9,283 10,361 9,460 BT Group plc consolidated committed facilities 1,500 2,300 2,335 Total capital 7,986 12,240 17,047 Interest rate risk management Management policy The group has interest bearing financial assets and financial liabilities which may expose the group to either cash ow or fair value volatility.
The BT Group plc Board policy is to ensure that at least 70% of BT Group plcs consolidated net debt is at xed rates.
Short-term interest rate management is delegated to the treasury operation whilst long-term interest rate management decisions require further approval from the BT Group plc Group Finance Director, Director Treasury, Tax and Risk Management or the Treasurer who have been delegated such authority by the BT Group plc Board.
Hedging strategy In order to manage the groups interest rate mix prole, the group has entered into swap agreements with commercial banks and other institutions to vary the amounts and periods for which interest rates on borrowings are xed.
Under cross currency swaps, the group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, US Dollar and Euro xed rates into either xed or oating Sterling interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed notional principal amount.
Under Sterling interest rate swaps, the group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, the differences between xed rate and oating rate Sterling interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed notional principal amount.
The group uses a combination of these derivatives to primarily x its interest rates.
The majority of the groups long-term borrowings have been, and are, subject to xed Sterling interest rates after applying the impact of hedging instruments.
Outstanding currency and interest rate swaps at 31 March 2010 are detailed in the Hedging activities and Other derivatives sections below.
The majority of the groups investments relate to amounts owed by the parent and the ultimate parent company, they are predominantly denominated in Sterling and earn a oating rate interest by reference to LIBOR interest rates.
78 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Sensitivities The group is exposed to volatility in the income statement and shareholders equity arising from changes in interest rates.
To demonstrate this volatility, management have concluded that a 100 basis point increase 2009: 100 basis point increase in interest rates and parallel shift in yield curves across Sterling, US Dollar and Euro currencies is a reasonable benchmark for performing a sensitivity analysis.
All adjustments to interest rates for the impacted financial instruments are assumed to take effect from the respective balance sheet date.
After the impact of hedging, the groups main exposure to interest rate volatility in the income statement arises from investments mainly amounts owed by the parent and ultimate parent companies, variable rate borrowings and fair value movements on derivatives not in hedging relationships which are largely inuenced by Sterling rates.
Trade payables, trade receivables and other financial instruments do not present a material exposure to interest rate volatility.
With all other factors remaining constant and based on the composition of balance sheet financial assets and financial liabilities at 31 March 2010, a 100 basis point increase 2009: 100 basis point increase in Sterling interest rates would decrease the groups annual net finance expense by approximately 194m 2009: increase the groups annual net finance income by 180m.
The groups main exposure to interest rate volatility within shareholders equity, as dened in IFRS 7, arises from fair value movements on derivatives held in the cash ow reserve.
The derivatives have an underlying interest rate exposure to Sterling, Euro and US Dollar rates.
With all other factors remaining constant and based on the composition of derivatives included in the cash ow reserve at the balance sheet date, a 100 basis point increase 2009: 100 basis point increase in interest rates in each of the currencies would impact equity, before tax, as detailed below: 2010 2009 m m Charge credit Charge credit Sterling interest rates 496 550 US Dollar interest rates 392 538 Euro interest rates 134 149 The impact as a result of a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would have broadly the same impact in the opposite direction.
The long-term debt instruments which the group issued in December 2000 and February 2001 both contained covenants providing that if the BT Group plc groups credit rating were downgraded below A3 in the case of Moodys or below A in the case of Standard & Poors S&P, additional interest would accrue from the next coupon period at a rate of 0.25 percentage points for each ratings category adjustment by each ratings agency.
In February 2010, S&P downgraded BT Group plcs credit rating to BBB.
Prior to this in March 2009, Moodys and S&P downgraded BT Group plcs credit rating to Baa2 and BBB, respectively.
Based on the total debt of 4.4bn outstanding on these instruments at 31 March 2010, the groups finance expense would increase decrease by approximately 9m in the year ending 31 March 2011 if BT Group plcs credit rating were to be downgraded upgraded respectively by one credit rating category by both agencies below a long-term debt rating of Baa2 BBB.
In addition, the groups 600m 2014 bond issued in June 2009 would attract an additional 1.25 percentage points for a downgrade by one credit rating category by both Moodys and S&P below Baa3 BBB, respectively.
This would result in an additional finance expense of 5m in the year ending 31 March 2011.
Foreign exchange risk management Management policy The purpose of the groups foreign currency hedging activities is to protect the group from the risk that the eventual net inows and net outows will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates.
The BT Group plc Board policy for foreign exchange risk management defines the types of transactions which should normally be covered, including significant operational, funding and currency interest exposures, and the period over which cover should extend for the different types of transactions.
Short-term foreign exchange management is delegated to the treasury operation whilst long-term foreign exchange management decisions require further approval from the BT Group plc Group Finance Director, Director Treasury, Tax and Risk Management or the Treasurer who have been delegated such authority by the BT Group plc Board.
The policy delegates authority to the Director Treasury, Tax and Risk Management to take positions of up to 100m and for the Group Finance Director to take positions of up to 1bn.
Exposure and hedging A significant proportion of the groups current revenue is invoiced in Sterling, and a significant element of its operations and costs arise within the UK.
The groups overseas operations generally trade and are funded in their functional currency which limits their exposure to foreign exchange volatility.
The groups foreign currency borrowings, which totalled 9.4bn at 31 March 2010 2009: 10.1bn, are used to finance its operations and have been predominantly swapped into Sterling using cross currency swaps.
The group also enters into forward currency contracts to hedge foreign currency investments, interest expense, capital purchases and purchase and sale commitments on a selective basis.
The commitments hedged are principally denominated in US Dollar, Euro and Asia Pacic region currencies.
As a result, the groups exposure to foreign currency arises mainly on its non UK subsidiary investments and on residual currency trading ows.
Sensitivities After hedging, with all other factors remaining constant and based on the composition of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date, the groups exposure to foreign exchange volatility in the income statement from a 10% strengthening weakening in Sterling against other currencies would result in a credit charge respectively of approximately 26m 2009: approximately 40m.
The groups main exposure to foreign exchange volatility within shareholders equity excluding translation exposures arises from fair value movements on derivatives held in the cash ow reserve.
The majority of foreign exchange uctuations in the cash ow reserve are recycled immediately to the income statement to match the hedged item and therefore the groups exposure to foreign exchange uctuations in equity would be insignicant in both 2010 and 2009.
Outstanding cross currency swaps at 31 March 2010 are detailed in the Hedging activities and Other derivatives sections below.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 79 31.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Credit risk management Treasury management policy The groups exposure to credit risk arises from financial assets transacted by the treasury operation primarily derivatives, investments, cash and cash equivalents and from its trading related receivables.
For treasury related balances, the BT Group plc Board dened policy restricts exposure to any one counterparty by setting credit limits based on the credit quality as dened by Moodys and Standard and Poors and by dening the types of financial instruments which may be transacted.
The minimum credit ratings permitted with counterparties are A3 A for long-term and P1 A1 for short-term investments.
The treasury operation continuously reviews the limits applied to counterparties and will adjust the limit according to the nature and credit standing of the counterparty up to the maximum allowable limit set by the BT Group plc Board.
Management review significant utilisations on a regular basis to determine the adjustments required, if any, and actively manage any exposures which may arise.
Where multiple transactions are undertaken with a single counterparty, or group of related counterparties, the group may enter into netting arrangements to reduce the groups exposure to credit risk.
The group makes use of standard International Swaps and Derivative Association ISDA documentation.
In addition, where possible the group will seek a combination of a legal right of set off and net settlement.
The group also seeks collateral or other security where it is considered necessary.
The treasury operation regularly reviews the credit limits applied when investing with counterparties in response to market conditions and continues to monitor their credit quality and actively manage any exposures which arise.
Exposures The maximum credit risk exposure of the groups financial assets at the balance sheet date are as follows: 2010 2009 At 31 March m m Derivative financial assets 1,700 2,700 Investments 19,133 18,855 a Trade and other receivables 2,961 3,111 Cash and cash equivalents 1,441 1,287 Total 25,235 25,953 a The carrying amount excludes 749m 2009: 1,084m of current and 336m 2009: 322m of non current trade and other receivables which relate to non financial assets.
Note 17 discloses the credit concentration and credit quality of derivative financial assets.
The majority of these derivatives are in designated cash ow hedges.
With all other factors remaining constant and based on the composition of net derivative financial assets at 31 March 2010, a 100 basis point shift in yield curves across each of the ratings categories within which these derivative financial assets are classied would change their carrying values and impact equity, before tax, as follows: Impact of 100 basis Impact of 100 basis point increase point decrease At 31 March m m Moodys S&P credit rating Aa2 AA 3 4 Aa3 AA- 26 30 A1 A 89 104 A2 A 102 122 220 260 The group also has credit exposure arising on amounts owed by its parent and ultimate parent companies, with the majority of this balance being owed by the parent company.
The related party disclosures detailed in note 24 provide details of how this loan has arisen.
The loan owed by the parent company is primarily supported by the parent companys investment in British Telecommunications plc.
The credit quality of other treasury related financial assets is provided in notes 9 and 12.
Operational management policy The groups credit policy for trading related financial assets is applied and managed by each of the lines of business to ensure compliance.
The policy requires that the creditworthiness and financial strength of customers is assessed at inception and on an ongoing basis.
Payment terms are set in accordance with industry standards.
The group will also enhance credit protection when appropriate, taking into consideration the customers exposure to the group, by applying processes which include netting and off setting, and requesting securities such as deposits, guarantees and letters of credit.
The group takes proactive steps to minimise the impact of adverse market conditions on trading related financial assets.
The concentration of credit risk for trading balances of the group is provided in note 15 which analyses outstanding balances by line of business and reects the nature of customers in each line of business.
80 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Liquidity risk management Management policy The group ensures its liquidity is maintained by entering into short, medium and long-term financial instruments to support operational and other funding requirements.
On at least an annual basis the BT Group plc Board reviews and approves the maximum long-term funding of the group and on an ongoing basis considers any related matters.
Short and medium-term requirements are regularly reviewed and managed by the treasury operation within the parameters of the policies set by the BT Group plc Board.
The groups liquidity and funding management process includes projecting cash ows and considering the level of liquid assets in relation thereto, monitoring balance sheet liquidity and maintaining a diverse range of funding sources and back up facilities.
The BT Group plc Board reviews the BT Group plc consolidated forecasts which incorporates the British Telecommunications plc consolidated group, including cash ow forecasts, on a quarterly basis.
The treasury operation reviews cash ows more frequently to assess the short and medium-term requirements.
These assessments ensure the group responds to possible future cash constraints in a timely manner.
Liquid assets surplus to the immediate operating requirements of the group are generally invested and managed by the treasury operation.
Requests from group companies for operating finance are met whenever possible from central resources.
Liquidity position During 2010, debt amounting to 1bn matured consisting of 0.7bn of commercial paper and 0.3bn of long-term debt.
This was offset by new issuance of a 600m bond at 6.125% repayable in 2014 which was swapped into 520m at a xed semi-annual rate of 6.8%.
During 2009, debt amounting to 0.9bn matured consisting of bank notes and Sterling oating notes.
This was offset by new issuances of 1.5bn mainly consisting of a 1bn bond at 6.5% repayable in 2015, which was swapped into 0.8bn at an average annualised Sterling interest rate of 7.7%, and commercial paper.
In addition, investments of 0.3bn matured.
During 2010 and 2009 the group issued commercial paper and held cash, cash equivalents and current asset investments in order to manage short-term liquidity requirements.
At 31 March 2010 the group had an undrawn committed borrowing facility of 1.5bn 2009: 1.5bn.
The facility is available for the period to January 2013.
The group had an additional undrawn committed borrowing facility of 900m which expired in March 2010.
Renancing risk is managed by limiting the amount of borrowing that matures within any specified period and having appropriate strategies in place to manage renancing needs as they arise.
The group has two significant term debt maturities during the 2011 financial year.
In December 2010, the groups US Dollar 8.625% note matures with a principal of US$2,883m 1,742m at swapped rates and in February 2011, a Euro 7.375% note matures with a principal of 1,125m 758m at swapped rates.
The group has built up significant liquidity in anticipation of these maturities which, alongside cash ows generated from operations and the groups nancing strategy, will fund this requirement.
In May 2010, the group entered into a 650m two-year facility arrangement.
There are no term debt maturities in the 2012 financial year.
At 31 March 2010, the BT Group plc credit rating was BBB with stable outlook with S&P and Baa2 with negative outlook with Moodys respectively 2009: BBB with stable outlook Baa2 with negative outlook.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 81 31.
Financial instruments and risk management continued The groups remaining contractually agreed cash ows, including interest, associated with financial liabilities based on undiscounted cash ows are as follows: Within one year, or Between one and Between two and Between three and Between four and Carrying amount on demand two years three years four years five years After five years d Outow inow m m m m m m m At 31 March 2010 Loans and borrowings 12,844 Principal 2,964 18 1,763 11 1,213 6,575 Interest 833 581 581 484 484 4,016 a Trade and other payables 4,834 4,834 b Provisions 255 61 37 30 26 45 143 Derivative financial instrument liabilities analysed c based on earliest payment date Net settled 662 450 78 185 65 215 745 Gross settled 37 Outow 1,081 Inow 1,074 Total 9,149 714 2,559 586 1,527 11,479 Derivative financial instrument liabilities analysed based on holding instrument to maturity Net settled 662 193 92 93 92 93 745 Gross settled 37 Outow 424 20 20 20 20 577 Inow 413 21 21 21 21 577 Within one year, or Between one and Between two and Between three and Between four and Carrying amount on demand two years three years four years five years After five years d Outow inow m m m m m m m At 31 March 2009 Loans and borrowings 14,268 Principal 1,240 3,098 10 1,829 14 7,752 Interest 914 900 649 650 550 5,333 a Trade and other payables 5,409 5,409 b Provisions 166 59 17 15 13 8 119 Derivative financial instrument liabilities analysed c based on earliest payment date Net settled 762 244 338 28 50 19 30 Gross settled 5 Outow 414 113 Inow 409 113 Total 7,871 4,353 702 2,542 591 13,234 Derivative financial instrument liabilities analysed based on holding instrument to maturity Net settled 762 117 117 60 60 60 634 Gross settled 5 Outow 414 113 Inow 409 113 a The carrying amount excludes 1,859m 2009: 1,861m of current and 804m 2009: 794m of non current trade and other payables which relate to non financial liabilities.
b The carrying amount excludes 73m 2009: 195m of current and 513m 2009: 359m of non current provisions which relate to non financial liabilities.
c Certain derivative financial instrument liabilities contain break clauses, whereby either the group or bank counterparty can terminate the swap on certain dates and the mark to market position is settled in cash.
d Foreign currency related cash flows were translated at the closing rate as at the relevant reporting date.
Future variable interest rate cash flows were calculated using the most recent rate applied at the relevant balance sheet date.
82 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Price risk management The group has limited exposure to price risk.
Hedging activities The group had outstanding hedging activities as at 31 March 2010 as follows: b Derivative fair value Period over Remaining term Weighted average which forecast Notional of hedging interest rate on transaction Hedged item Hedging instruments Hedge type principal Asset Liability instruments hedging instruments arises m m m Euro and US Dollar Interest rate swaps Cash ow 2,913 361 9 months to 21 years Sterling receivable at 0.8% a denominated borrowings Sterling payable at 5.9% Cross currency swaps Cash ow 7,612 1,571 30 9 months to 21 years Euro receivable at 6.1% US Dollar receivable at 7.6% Sterling payable at 6.3% Sterling denominated Interest rate swaps Fair value 500 6 19 years Sterling receivable at 5.8% a borrowings Sterling payable at 2.2% Euro and US Dollar step up Forward currency contracts Cash ow 247 16 3 to 9 months 21 years interest on currency rolling basis a denominated borrowings Currency exposures on overseas Forward currency contracts Cash ow 161 4 1 month 12 months purchases principally US Dollar rolling basis and Asia Pacic currencies Purchase of US Dollar Forward currency contracts Cash ow 180 7 1 to 9 months denominated retail devices a See note 16. b See note 17.
The group had outstanding hedging activities as at 31 March 2009 as follows: b Derivative fair value Period over Remaining term Weighted average which forecast Hedging Notional of hedging interest rate on transaction Hedged item instruments Hedge type principal Asset Liability instruments hedging instruments arises m m m Euro and US Dollar denominated Interest rate swaps Cash ow 2,913 446 2 to 22 years Sterling receivable at 3.0% a borrowings Sterling payable at 5.9% Cross currency Cash ow and 7,227 2,559 1 5 months to 22 years Euro receivable at 6.0% swaps fair value US Dollar receivable at 7.7% Sterling payable at 7.2% Euro and US Dollar step up Forward currency Cash ow 223 9 3 to 5 months 22 years interest on currency contracts rolling basis a denominated borrowings Euro and US Dollar Forward currency Cash ow 490 17 Less than 3 months a commercial paper contracts rolling basis Purchase of US Dollar Forward currency Cash ow 48 1 Less than 1 month 4 years denominated xed assets contracts Euro deferred consideration Forward currency Cash ow 50 1 Less than 5 months on acquisition contracts a See note 16. b See note 17.
Other derivatives At 31 March 2010, the group held certain foreign currency forward and interest rate swap contracts which were not in hedging relationships in accordance with IAS 39.
Foreign currency forward contracts were economically hedging operational purchases and sales and had a notional principal amount of 189m for purchases of currency 2009: 533m and had a maturity period of under one month 2009: under nine months.
Interest rate swaps not in hedging relationships under IAS 39 had a notional principal amount of 1.9bn 2009: 1.9bn and mature between 2014 and 2030 2009: 2014 and 2030.
The interest receivable under these swap contracts is at a weighted average rate of 4.2% 2009: 6% and interest payable is at a weighted average rate of 5.8% 2009: 7.6%.
The volatility arising from these swaps is recognised through the income statement but is limited due to a natural offset in their fair value movements.
In 2009 the group entered into credit default swap contracts to economically hedge part of its US Dollar denominated derivative financial assets, which had a notional principal of US$90m.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 83 31.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Fair value of financial instruments The table below discloses the carrying amounts and fair values of all of the groups financial instruments which are not carried at an amount which approximates to their fair value on the balance sheet at 31 March 2010 and 2009.
The carrying amounts are included in the group balance sheet under the indicated headings.
The fair values of listed investments were estimated based on quoted market prices for those investments.
The carrying value of oating rate investments approximated to their fair values due to the frequent reset of interest rates to market rates.
The carrying amount of the short-term deposits and investments approximated to their fair values due to the short maturity of the investments held.
The carrying amount of trade receivables and payables approximated to their fair values due to the short maturity of the amounts receivable and payable.
The fair value of the groups bonds, debentures, notes, finance leases and other long-term borrowings has been estimated on the basis of quoted market prices for the same or similar issues with the same maturities where they existed, and on calculations of the present value of future cash ows using the appropriate discount rates in effect at the balance sheet dates, where market prices of similar issues did not exist or the carrying value of oating rate borrowings approximated to their fair values due to the frequent reset of interest rates to market rates.
The fair value of the groups outstanding swaps and foreign exchange contracts were the estimated amounts, calculated using discounted cash ow models taking into account market rates of interest and foreign exchange at the balance sheet date.
Carrying amount Fair value 2010 2009 2010 2009 At 31 March m m m m Financial liabilities Listed bonds, debentures and notes 12,157 12,189 13,304 11,384 Finance leases 304 332 343 366 Other loans and borrowings 383 1,747 407 1,699 The table below shows certain financial assets and financial liabilities that have been measured at fair value analysed, by the level of valuation method.
The three levels of valuation methodology used are: Level 1 uses quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 uses inputs for the asset or liability other than quoted prices, that are observable either directly or indirectly Level 3 uses inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data, such as internal models or other valuation methods.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At 31 March 2010 m m m m Financial assets at fair value Non current and current derivative financial assets Derivatives designated as accounting hedges 1,594 1,594 Other derivatives 106 106 Total current and non current derivative financial assets note 17 1,700 1,700 Available-for-sale financial assets Non current and current investments Liquid investments 258 258 Other investments 11 3445 Total non current and current investments note 12 11 258 34 303 Total financial assets at fair value 11 1,958 34 2,003 Financial liabilities at fair value Current and non current derivative financial liabilities Derivatives designated as accounting hedges 401 401 Other derivatives 298 298 Total current and non current financial liabilities note 17 699 699 Total financial liabilities at fair value 699 699 84 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Movements in 2010 for financial instruments measured using Level 3 valuation methods are presented below: Other investments m At 1 April 2009 23 Additions 12 Disposals 1 At 31 March 2010 34 There were no losses recognised in the income statement in respect of Level 3 assets held at 31 March 2010.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 85
