Financial statements Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 33 Accounting policies General information enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Caledonia Investments plc is an investment trust company domiciled company and the group have adequate resources to continue in in the United Kingdom and incorporated in England in 1928, under operational existence for the foreseeable future, as discussed in the the Companies Acts 1908 to 1917.
The address of its registered of ce directors report on page 26.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt is Cayzer House, 30 Buckingham Gate, London SW1E 6NN.
The the going concern basis of preparing the financial statements.
ordinary shares of the company are listed on the London Stock The principal accounting policies are set out below.
Exchange and the New Zealand Exchange.
These financial statements were authorised for issue by the Foreign currency translation directors on 19 May 2010.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and because that is the currency of the primary economic environment liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are in which Caledonia operates.
translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate In the current year, the group has adopted: ruling at the reporting date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the statement of comprehensive IFRS 8 Operating Segments, which requires financial information income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in to be presented on the same basis as used for internal performance terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated to the measurement functional currency using the exchange rate at the date of the IAS 1 Revised 2007 Presentation of Financial Statements, which transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in requires the presentation of a statement of comprehensive income foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to the functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates IFRS 3 Revised 2008 Business Combinations, which introduced the fair values were determined.
changes in the accounting for business combinations that impact Assets and liabilities of the groups overseas operations are the amount of goodwill recognised, the reported results in the measured using their functional currency, being the currency of period that an acquisition occurs and future reported results the primary economic environment in which they operate.
IAS 20 Revised 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the groups Statements, which requires that a change in the ownership interest overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on of a subsidiary is accounted for as an equity transaction.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates The adoption of these Standards had no material impact on these uctuate signi cantly.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are financial statements, except for additional segment disclosures and classi ed as equity and transferred to the groups foreign exchange non-controlling interest.
Such exchange differences are recognised in At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which the following Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied operation is sold.
in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate at the reporting date.
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Interpretations Investments in future periods will have no material impact on the financial Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where statements of the company.
a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established Signi cant accounting policies by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, Basis of accounting excluding transaction costs.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Investments held as part of the groups business of investing International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for in financial assets are designated as measured at fair value through use in the EU and therefore the group financial statements comply pro t or loss in both the consolidated financial statements and the with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
IFRSs comprise accounting company financial statements.
Other investments held by standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board subsidiaries are designated as available for sale in the consolidated IASB and its predecessor body as well as interpretations issued by financial statements.
Other investments in subsidiaries held by the the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee company are accounted for at cost in the financial statements of the IFRIC and its predecessor body.
Caledonia is an investment trust company.
However, because Investments designated as held at fair value through pro t or it holds majority stakes and therefore has the power to control, it is loss or as available for sale are measured at subsequent reporting required to prepare group accounts that consolidate the results of dates at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the value such investments.
In order to present information that is comparable of investments designated as held at fair value through pro t or loss, with other investment trust companies, Caledonia also publishes including foreign exchange movements, are included in net pro t or financial statements of the company, which include investments loss for the period.
For available for sale investments, gains and losses in subsidiaries regarded as part of the companys investing business arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other at fair value.
comprehensive income until the investment is disposed of or is The financial statements have been prepared on an historical determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments previously recognised in other comprehensive income is included in and properties.
the net pro t or loss for the period.
If, in the subsequent period, the Under the Combined Code and applicable regulations, the fair value of the available for sale investments, for which impairment directors are required to satisfy themselves that it is reasonable to was previously recognised, increases in value, the impairment loss is presume that the company is a going concern.
After making reversed through the statement of comprehensive income.
34 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements Accounting policies Quoted investments are valued at bid price or the last traded price Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on when a bid price is not available.
Unquoted investments are valued differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in using recognised valuation methodologies, based on the the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Guidelines, which computation of taxable pro t, and is accounted for using the liability re ect the amount for which an asset could be exchanged between method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable knowledgeable, willing parties on an arms length basis.
The portfolio temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the valuation methodology is detailed on page 15. extent that it is probable that taxable pro ts will be available against Distributions from investment limited partnerships are treated which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Investment as disposal proceeds or income in accordance with the nature of the trust companies that have approval as such under section 1159 of the distribution.
Any surplus capital distributions after repaying any Corporation Tax Act 2010 formerly section 842 of the Income and partners loans and capital are treated as realised gains.
Corporation Taxes Act 1988 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Income reporting date and adjusted to the extent that it is probable that Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised as revenue suf cient taxable pro ts will be available to allow all or part of the when the shareholders right to receive payment has been asset to be recovered.
established, normally the ex-dividend date.
Where no ex-dividend date is available, dividends receivable on or before the period end are Dividend distribution treated as revenue for the period.
Provision is made for any dividends Dividends are recognised in the period in which they are not expected to be received.
appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the entity.
The xed returns on debt securities, loans and non-equity For interim dividends, this will normally mean the date on which they shares are recognised on an effective interest rate basis, which is the are paid and, for final dividends, the date on which they are approved rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through in general meeting.
the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Employee bene ts Pension schemes For trading subsidiaries, revenue comprises the fair value of Payments to fide ned contribution schemes are charged as an the sale of goods and services, net of value-added tax, rebates and expense as they fall due.
discounts and after eliminating sales within the group.
Sales of goods For fide ned bene t schemes, the cost of providing bene ts is are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Sales determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial of services are recognised in the accounting period in which the valuations being carried out at each reporting date.
Actuarial gains services are rendered, by reference to completion of the speci c and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
transaction, assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as They are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented a proportion of the total services to be provided.
in the statement of comprehensive income.
The companys share of net income from limited partnerships Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent is recognised as revenue when received.
that the bene ts are already vested and otherwise is amortised on Where uncertainty arises over the collectability of an amount a straight-line basis over the average period until the bene ts already included in income, the uncollectible amount or the amount become vested.
in respect of which the recovery has ceased to be probable, is The retirement bene t obligation recognised in the statement recognised as an expense.
When the uncertainty over collectability of financial position represents the present value of the fide ned is removed, normally on receipt, the income is recognised in the bene t obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost and statement of comprehensive income.
as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of Expenses available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
All expenses are accounted for on an accrual basis.
Expenses of acquisition of an investment designated as held at fair value through Pro t-sharing and bonus plans pro t or loss or expenses of an aborted acquisition or disposal of an The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and investment are presented as transaction costs and expenses of pro t-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration the disposal of an investment are deducted from the disposal proceeds.
pro t attributable to the companys shareholders after certain Taxation adjustments.
The group recognises a provision where contractually The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable pro t for Share-based payments the period.
Taxable pro t differs from net pro t as reported in the The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items of employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and fair value at the date of grant and the fair value is expensed on a it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the groups groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that were estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
applicable at the reporting date.
Where employees of a subsidiary are granted rights to the equity instruments of its parent as consideration for the services provided to the subsidiary, the subsidiary recognises an equity settled share-based payment transaction expense with a corresponding increase recognised in equity representing a contribution from the parent.
Financial statements Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 35 An employee share trust is used for distributing option shares and Intangible assets deferred bonus awards to employees under Caledonias share Brands, trademarks, computer software and customer relationships remuneration schemes.
The trustee purchases shares with money Brands, trademarks, computer software and customer relationships lent interest free by Caledonia and transfers shares to participating acquired by the group are stated at cost less accumulated employees on receipt of the requisite consideration or calling amortisation and impairment losses.
Where such items are not of awards.
deemed to have an inde nite life, amortisation is expensed on a The transactions the employee share trust undertakes are straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
considered to be performed by the trust as an agent for Caledonia.
The transactions of the employee share trust are included in the Goodwill separate financial statements of the parent company and, following Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of the requirements of SIC 12, in the consolidated financial statements acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of the identi able as if they arose in that company.
Own shares held by the employee assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or share trust as at the reporting date are accounted for as if they were jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in pro t National Insurance on share option scheme gains and deferred bonus or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
awards On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, National Insurance contributions payable on the exercise of certain the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination employee share options at the date of exercise and deferred bonus of the pro t or loss on disposal.
awards at the date of call have been charged as an expense spread over the respective vesting periods.
The charge is based on the Impairment of assets difference between the market value of the underlying shares at the At each reporting date, the group reviews the carrying amounts of reporting date and the exercise price for share options or nil for its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any deferred bonus awards and calculated at the latest enacted National indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any Insurance contributions rate.
such indication exists, an impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, Capital reserve if any.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less The company maintains a capital reserve, which it is prohibited from costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, distributing by virtue of its articles of association.
The following items intangible assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are are transferred into the capital reserve from pro t or loss: separately identi able cash ows cash-generating units.
gains and losses on investments held at fair value through pro t Inventories or loss Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
gains and losses on derivatives used to hedge the fair value Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour of investments costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated expenses and finance costs incurred directly in relation to using the first-in, first-out method.
Net realisable value represents the capital transactions estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and taxation on items recognised in the capital reserve costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Properties that are held for sale in the ordinary course of business Property, plant and equipment or are being developed for future sale are classi ed as inventories.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Receivables Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, Receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal other than land or properties under construction, over their value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the irrecoverable amounts.
following bases: Cash and cash equivalents Property 25-40 years Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents Plant 10-15 years are short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible Equipment 3-8 years to known amounts of cash and that are subject to an insigni cant risk of changes in value.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where Borrowings shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the The gain or loss on the disposal or retirement of an asset is proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the statement of issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the statement of comprehensive income.
comprehensive income using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that Investment property they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
The effective Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals and or for interest method allocates the interest expense over the life of the capital appreciation, is stated at its fair value at the reporting date.
instrument so as to re ect a constant return on the carrying amount Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment of the liability.
property are included in the statement of comprehensive income for Borrowings include a component of the companys deferred the period in which they arise.
ordinary shares and preference shares in subsidiaries held by third parties that fall under the fide nition of financial liabilities under IAS 32.
36 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements Accounting policies Provisions where the company has the power to govern the financial and A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when operating policies of the investee entity so as to obtain economic the company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result bene ts from its activities.
of a past event, and it is probable that an out ow of economic bene ts On acquisition, the identi able assets, liabilities and contingent will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are measured at liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at fair values at the date of the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values obligation at the reporting date and are discounted to present value of the identi able net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
where the effect is material.
Any fide ciency in the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identi able net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited Leasing to the statement of comprehensive income in the period of acquisition.
Leases are classi ed as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease The interest of non-controlling shareholders is stated at the nontransfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the controlled proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities lessee.
All other leases are classi ed as operating leases.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the Lessor period are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line income from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in date of disposal, as appropriate.
negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis.
statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used by the group.
Lessee All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the group eliminated on consolidation.
at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The Associates corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the statement of An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise financial position as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are signi cant in uence, but not control or joint control, through the apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease financial and operating policy decisions of the investee entity.
obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining As Caledonia is an investment trust company, and its investments balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against held in associates are designated as held at fair value through pro t or income.
loss, the provisions of IAS 28 Investments in Associates do not apply.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income Such investments are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
recognised in pro t or loss in the period in which they occur.
Bene ts received and receivable as an incentive to enter into No other group company held investments in associates.
an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Joint ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more Share capital parties undertake an economic activity that is the subject of joint Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded as the control.
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
As Caledonia is an investment trust company, and its interests Where any group company and the Caledonia Investments plc in joint ventures are designated as held at fair value through pro t or Employee Share Trust purchases the companys equity share capital loss, the provisions of IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures do not apply.
or the company buys shares into treasury, the consideration paid, Such interests are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income recognised in pro t or loss in the period in which they occur.
However, taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the companys equity the provisions of IAS 31 do apply to interests in joint ventures held by holders until the shares are cancelled or transferred.
Where such shares other companies in the group, as set out below.
are subsequently transferred, any consideration received, net of any The results and assets and liabilities of joint ventures held by directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related subsidiaries are incorporated in these financial statements using the income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the companys equity method of accounting, except when classi ed as held for sale.
Interests in joint ventures are carried in the statement of financial position at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the groups Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting share of net assets of the joint ventures, less any impairment in the Derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date a contract is value of individual investments.
Losses of the joint ventures in excess entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
of the groups interest in those joint ventures are not recognised.
Hedge accounting is not applied.
Changes in the fair value of Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups share of the derivative financial instruments are recognised in the statement of fair values of the identi able net assets of the joint ventures at the date comprehensive income as they arise.
of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Any fide ciency in the cost of acquisition below the groups share of the fair values of the identi able Operating segments net assets at the date of acquisition is credited in pro t or loss in the Operating segments are based the financial information reported period of acquisition.
to the chief operating decision maker.
Where a group company transacts with joint ventures of the group, pro ts and losses are eliminated to the extent of the groups Basis of consolidation interest in the relevant joint ventures.
Losses may provide evidence Subsidiaries of an impairment of the asset transferred, in which case appropriate The consolidated financial statements include the financial provision is made for impairment.
statements of the company and entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries made up to the reporting date.
