24 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Report of the Directors continued Voting policy be put at the AGM are contained in the separate circular Henderson's Responsible Investment Policy sets out the being sent to shareholders with this annual report.
Managers approach to corporate governance and The directors seek annual authority from the shareholders to corporate responsibility for all the companies in which it allot new ordinary shares, to disapply the pre-emption rights invests on behalf of its clients, and its policy on proxy of existing shareholders, and to buy back for cancellation or voting.
The Policy also sets out how Henderson implements to be held in treasury the Companys ordinary shares.
The Company has reviewed addition, the directors seek annual authority to buy back and Hendersons policy and has delegated responsibility for cancel the Companys preferred and preference stocks.
At the voting to the Manager.
The Board receives a report, at least AGM in October 2009 the directors were granted authority to annually, on the voting undertaken by the Manager on buy back up to 31,272,105 ordinary shares, as well as its behalf of the Company.
preference and preferred ordinary stocks.
At 30 June 2010 The Board and Henderson believe that voting at general and also at the date of this report, the directors have meetings is an important aspect of corporate stewardship remaining authority to buy back up to 31,272,105 ordinary and a means of signalling shareholder views on board shares, 301,982 of first preference stock, 507,202 of policy, practices and performance.
Voting recommendations second preference stock and 589,672 of preferred ordinary are guided by the best interests of the investee companies stock: all these authorities will expire at the conclusion of the shareholders.
Depending on the nature of the resolution AGM in October 2010. the Portfolio Manager and or members of the Board will give specific instructions on voting non-routine and unusual Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information or controversial resolutions.
Decisions not to support to Auditors resolutions and the rationale therefor are fed back to the The directors who were members of the Board at the time of investee company prior to voting.
approving this Report are listed on page 13.
Each of those directors confirms that: The Henderson Responsible Investment Policy and further details of Hendersons responsible investment activities can to the best of their knowledge and belief, there is no be found on the Henderson website, www.
com information relevant to the preparation of their report of sites henderson .
aspx which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Environmental matters they have taken all the steps a director might reasonably be The Companys core activities are undertaken by Henderson, expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit which has implemented environmental management information and to establish that the Companys auditors practices, including systems to limit the use of non-renewable are aware of that information.
resources and to minimise the impact of operations on the environment, and is focused on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and minimising waste, where possible.
Annual General Meeting AGM By order of the Board The AGM will be held on Thursday 21 October 2010 at 3.00pm at the Companys registered office.
Separate D J Trickett ACIS resolutions will be proposed for each substantive issue, For and on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited including the adoption of new articles of association.
Secretary The formal notice as well as full details of the resolutions to 14 September 2010
