Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 Financial Statements Th The e N No ot tes es 56 1.
Accounting policies Close Brothers Group plc the Company a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom UK, together with its subsidiaries collectively, the group operates through three divisions: Banking, Securities and Asset Management and is primarily located within the British Isles.
a Compliance with financial reporting standards The consolidated financial statements the consolidated accounts have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with all relevant International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and adopted by the European Union.
At the balance sheet date the group had adopted all standards and interpretations which had become effective during the year.
Other than the Standards described below, there was no material impact on the financial statements of the group from adoption of effective standards and interpretations.
IFRS 8 Operating segments has been adopted.
This standard replaces IAS 14 Segment reporting and requires segmental information reported to be based on that which the groups Executive Committee, which is considered the groups chief operating decision maker, uses internally for the purposes of evaluating the performance of the groups operating segments.
Note 3 of these financial statements sets out the groups reportable segments and reconciliations between these and the results reported in the consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet.
There has been no change to the segments reported, though there have been some additional segmental disclosures presented.
Amendments to IFRS 3 Business combinations and IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements have been adopted.
The main changes to existing practice affect acquisitions achieved in stages and those where less than 100% of equity is acquired.
In addition, acquisition related costs must be accounted for as expenses unless directly connected with the issue of debt or equity securities.
The revised IFRS 3 applies prospectively to business combinations undertaken by the group on or after 1 August 2009.
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements has been adopted.
The revised standard prohibits the presentation of items of income and expense in the statement of changes in equity, requiring non-shareholder changes in equity to be presented separately from shareholder changes in equity.
All non-shareholder changes in equity are required to be presented in a performance statement.
IAS 1 Revised permits a choice between presenting a single performance statement being a Statement of Comprehensive Income or two statements being an Income Statement and a Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
The group has elected to present two statements.
In addition, to comply with the revised standard, the group now presents a Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity as a primary statement.
Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures which requires enhanced disclosures of fair value and liquidity risk has been adopted.
This has resulted in additional disclosures in this Annual Report.
The group has elected not to provide comparative information for these expanded disclosures in the current year in accordance with the transitional reliefs offered in the amendment.
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Revised has been revised to require capitalisation of borrowing costs on qualifying assets.
In accordance with the transitional requirements of the standard, the capitalisation of borrowing costs has been adopted as a prospective change from the commencement date of 1 August 2009.
No change has been made for borrowing costs incurred prior to this date that have been expensed.
Since adoption, the group has incurred no borrowing costs on qualifying assets which are required to be capitalised.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations have been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC with an effective date, subject to EU endorsement in some cases, that do not impact on these financial statements.
The IASB issued an amendment, Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions, to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment in June 2009 clarifying how an individual subsidiary in a group should account for share-based payment arrangements in its own financial statements where the subsidiary receives goods or services from employees or suppliers but its parent or another entity in the group must pay those suppliers.
The amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 2010.
The effect to the group is under review although no material impact is expected.
1 The IASB published an amendment Classification of Rights Issues to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and consequential revisions to other standards in October 2009 to improve the accounting for issues of equity for consideration fixed other than in the reporting entitys functional currency.
The amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the group.
The IASB reissued IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, in November 2009 to clarify the existing standard and provide certain exemptions for entities under government control.
The revised standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011 and is not expected to have a material impact on the group.
