Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 Financial Statements Th The e N No ot tes es 56 1.
Accounting policies Close Brothers Group plc the Company a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom UK, together with its subsidiaries collectively, the group operates through three divisions: Banking, Securities and Asset Management and is primarily located within the British Isles.
a Compliance with financial reporting standards The consolidated financial statements the consolidated accounts have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with all relevant International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and adopted by the European Union.
At the balance sheet date the group had adopted all standards and interpretations which had become effective during the year.
Other than the Standards described below, there was no material impact on the financial statements of the group from adoption of effective standards and interpretations.
IFRS 8 Operating segments has been adopted.
This standard replaces IAS 14 Segment reporting and requires segmental information reported to be based on that which the groups Executive Committee, which is considered the groups chief operating decision maker, uses internally for the purposes of evaluating the performance of the groups operating segments.
Note 3 of these financial statements sets out the groups reportable segments and reconciliations between these and the results reported in the consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet.
There has been no change to the segments reported, though there have been some additional segmental disclosures presented.
Amendments to IFRS 3 Business combinations and IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements have been adopted.
The main changes to existing practice affect acquisitions achieved in stages and those where less than 100% of equity is acquired.
In addition, acquisition related costs must be accounted for as expenses unless directly connected with the issue of debt or equity securities.
The revised IFRS 3 applies prospectively to business combinations undertaken by the group on or after 1 August 2009.
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements has been adopted.
The revised standard prohibits the presentation of items of income and expense in the statement of changes in equity, requiring non-shareholder changes in equity to be presented separately from shareholder changes in equity.
All non-shareholder changes in equity are required to be presented in a performance statement.
IAS 1 Revised permits a choice between presenting a single performance statement being a Statement of Comprehensive Income or two statements being an Income Statement and a Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
The group has elected to present two statements.
In addition, to comply with the revised standard, the group now presents a Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity as a primary statement.
Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures which requires enhanced disclosures of fair value and liquidity risk has been adopted.
This has resulted in additional disclosures in this Annual Report.
The group has elected not to provide comparative information for these expanded disclosures in the current year in accordance with the transitional reliefs offered in the amendment.
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Revised has been revised to require capitalisation of borrowing costs on qualifying assets.
In accordance with the transitional requirements of the standard, the capitalisation of borrowing costs has been adopted as a prospective change from the commencement date of 1 August 2009.
No change has been made for borrowing costs incurred prior to this date that have been expensed.
Since adoption, the group has incurred no borrowing costs on qualifying assets which are required to be capitalised.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations have been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC with an effective date, subject to EU endorsement in some cases, that do not impact on these financial statements.
The IASB issued an amendment, Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions, to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment in June 2009 clarifying how an individual subsidiary in a group should account for share-based payment arrangements in its own financial statements where the subsidiary receives goods or services from employees or suppliers but its parent or another entity in the group must pay those suppliers.
The amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 2010.
The effect to the group is under review although no material impact is expected.
1 The IASB published an amendment Classification of Rights Issues to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and consequential revisions to other standards in October 2009 to improve the accounting for issues of equity for consideration fixed other than in the reporting entitys functional currency.
The amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the group.
The IASB reissued IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, in November 2009 to clarify the existing standard and provide certain exemptions for entities under government control.
The revised standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011 and is not expected to have a material impact on the group.
indd 56 29 9 10 20:51:15 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 57 The IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments in November 2009 simplifying the classification and measurement requirements in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement in respect of financial assets.
The standard reduces the measurement categories for financial assets to two: fair value and amortised cost.
A financial asset is classified on the basis of the entitys business model for managing the financial asset and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
Only assets with contractual terms that give rise to cash flows on specified dates that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding and which are held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash flows are classified as amortised cost.
All other financial assets are measured at fair value.
Changes in the value of financial assets measured at fair value are generally taken to profit or loss although there is an exception where an equity investment is not held for trading and an irrevocable election is made at initial recognition to measure it at fair value through equity with only dividend income recognised in profit or loss.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013: early application is permitted.
This standard makes major changes to the framework for the classification and measurement of financial assets and will have a significant effect on the groups financial statements.
The group is assessing this impact which is likely to depend on the outcome of the other phases of the IASBs IAS 39 replacement project.
The IASB issued an amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement in November 2009.
The amendment applies in the limited circumstances when an entity is subject to minimum funding requirements and makes an early payment of contributions to cover those requirements.
It permits such an entity to treat the benefit of such an early payment as an asset.
The amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011 and is not expected to have a material impact on the group.
The IFRIC issued interpretation IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments in December 2009.
The interpretation clarifies that the profit or loss on extinguishing liabilities by issuing equity instruments should be measured by reference to fair value, preferably of the equity instruments.
The interpretation, effective for the group for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011, is not expected to have a material effect on the group.
Improvements to IFRSs issued in May 2010 contain amendments to a number of IFRSs.
The company financial statements the company accounts have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with Section 395 of the Companies Act 2006, the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and with all relevant UK accounting standards.
The company has taken advantage of the exemption in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its company income statement and related notes.
b Accounting convention The consolidated and company accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss, available for sale financial assets and all derivative financial instruments derivatives.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as disclosed in the Report of the Directors.
c Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries The consolidated accounts incorporate the financial statements of the company and the entities it controls subsidiaries using the acquisition method of accounting.
Control exists where the company has the power to govern an entitys financial and operating policies.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated income statement from the date control transfers to the company to the date control transfers from the company.
Under the acquisition method of accounting, with some limited exceptions, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders is measured either at fair value or at the minoritys proportion of the net assets acquired.
Acquisition related costs are accounted for as expenses when incurred, unless directly related to the issue of debt or equity securities.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over net assets is capitalised as goodwill.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated.
As allowed by IFRS 1 First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, the company has not restated to IFRS fair values those acquisitions that took place before 1 August 2004.
Associates The consolidated accounts also incorporate the financial statements of entities that are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures but over which the company has significant influence associates, using the equity method of accounting.
This applies where the company and its subsidiaries the group hold 20% or more of an entitys voting power, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that no significant influence exists.
The groups share of an associates results is included in the consolidated income statement from the date it becomes an associate to the date it stops being so.
indd 57 29 9 10 20:51:15 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 Financial Statements The Notes 58 1.
Accounting policies continued Under the equity method of accounting, the investment in an associate is initially recognised at cost.
This carrying amount subsequently decreases for the groups share of any losses or distributions received and increases for the groups share of any profit.
The carrying amount is also reviewed annually for impairment.
d Net interest income Interest on loans and advances made by the group, and fee income and expense and other direct costs relating to loan origination, restructuring or commitments are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate EIR method.
The EIR method applies a rate that discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts relating to a financial instrument to its net carrying amount.
The cash flows take into account all contractual terms of the financial instrument including transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts but not future credit losses.
e Net fee and commission income Where fees that have not been included within the EIR method are earned on the execution of a significant act, such as fees arising from negotiating or arranging a transaction for a third party, they are recognised as revenue when that act has been completed.
Fees and corresponding expenses in respect of other services are recognised in the income statement as the right to consideration or payment accrues through performance of services.
In particular, upfront commissions paid in respect of managing, as opposed to originating, fund products are initially included within accruals and deferred income and then recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
To the extent that fees and commissions are recognised in advance of billing they are included as accrued income or expense.
f Gains less losses arising from dealing in securities This includes the net gains arising from both buying and selling securities and from positions held in securities, including related interest income and dividends.
g Share-based awards The group operates four share-based award schemes, an annual discretionary performance arrangement and three long-term equity based incentive schemes Incentive Schemes : the 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP which replaced the 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, the 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme and the Inland Revenue approved Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
In addition to these schemes a new Share Matching Plan will operate for the first time in the 2011 financial year in respect of annual bonuses awarded for the 2010 financial year.
As allowed by IFRS 1, the company has not applied IFRS 2 Share-based Payment to grants under these Incentive Schemes before 8 November 2002.
The costs of the annual discretionary performance related awards are based on the salary of the individual at the time the award is made.
The value of the share award at the grant date is charged to the groups income statement in the year to which the award relates.
The cost of the Incentive Schemes is based on the fair value of awards on the date of grant.
Fair values for market based performance conditions are determined using a stochastic Monte Carlo simulation pricing model for the LTIP and the BlackScholes pricing model for the others.
Both models take into account the exercise price of the option, the current share price, the risk free interest rate, the expected volatility of the companys share price over the life of the option award and other relevant factors.
For non market based performance conditions, vesting conditions are not taken into account when measuring fair value, but are reflected by adjusting the number of shares in each award such that the amount recognised reflects the number that are expected to, and then actually do, vest.
The fair value is expensed in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding credit to the share-based awards reserve.
At the end of the vesting period, or upon exercise, lapse or forfeit if earlier, this credit is transferred to retained reserves.
Further information on the groups schemes are provided in note 31, and in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration.
h Depreciation and amortisation Property, plant and equipment, computer software and intangible assets on acquisition latter two classified as intangible assets, are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation or amortisation, less provisions for any impairment.
The provision for depreciation or amortisation on these assets is calculated to write off their cost on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10% to 33% Motor vehicles 25% Freehold and long leasehold property 2.5% Short leasehold property over the length of the lease Computer software 20% to 33% Intangible assets on acquisition 7% to 20% No depreciation is provided in respect of freehold land, which is stated at cost.
indd 58 29 9 10 20:51:15 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 59 i Impairment losses on goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of business assets before 1 August 1998 has been written off to reserves.
From that date such goodwill arising was capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised, in equal annual instalments, unless there has been impairment, over its estimated useful life of up to 20 years.
From 1 August 2004, amortisation of goodwill has ceased, negative goodwill is credited to the income statement and the net book value of goodwill is subject to impairment review at least annually.
j Exceptional items Items of income and expense that are material by size and or nature and are non-recurring are classified as exceptional items on the face of the income statement.
The separate reporting of these items helps give an indication of the groups underlying performance.
k Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
l Deferred tax To enable the tax charge to be based on the profit for the year, deferred tax is provided in full on temporary timing differences, at the rates of tax expected to apply when these differences crystallise.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available against which temporary differences can be set.
All deferred tax liabilities are offset against deferred tax assets in accordance with the provisions of IAS 12 Income taxes.
m Settlement accounts Settlement balance debtors and creditors are the amounts due to and from counterparties in respect of the groups marketmaking activities.
The balances are short-term in nature, do not earn interest and are recorded at the amount receivable or payable.
n Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances are recognised when cash is advanced to borrowers at cost including any transaction costs and are classified as loans and receivables under IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
They are then amortised using the EIR method and recorded net of provisions for impairment losses.
The carrying value of loans and advances approximates to their fair value.
Impairment provisions are made if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more subsequent events regarding a significant loan or a portfolio of loans a loan and its impact can be reliably estimated.
The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the loans carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred, discounted at the original EIR.
As the loan amortises over its life, the impairment loss may amortise.
All impairment losses are reviewed at least at each reporting date.
If subsequently the amount of the loss decreases as a result of a new event, the relevant element of the outstanding impairment loss is reversed.
Interest on impaired financial assets is recognised at the original EIR applied to the carrying amount as reduced by an allowance for impairment.
For loans that are not considered individually significant, the group adopts a formulaic approach which allocates a loss rate dependent on the overdue period.
Loss rates are based on the discounted expected future cash flows and are regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate.
o Finance leases, operating leases and hire purchase contracts A finance lease is a lease or hire purchase contract that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset to the lessee.
Finance leases are recognised as loans at an amount equal to the gross investment in the lease discounted at its implicit interest rate.
Finance charges on finance leases are taken to income in proportion to the net funds invested.
Rental costs under operating leases and hire purchase contracts are charged to the income statement in equal annual amounts over the period of the leases.
p Debt securities and equity shares Fair values of all financial instruments are obtained from independent open market sources, independent professional valuers, discounted cash flow models based on prevailing market rates or option pricing models.
Financial instruments held for trading The long and short positions respectively represent the aggregate net bought and net sold positions, held by Winterflood and Close Brothers Seydler Bank Seydler.
They are valued at the dealers bid and offer prices respectively and are the only U09509 pp56 pp75.
indd 59 29 9 10 20:51:15 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 Financial Statements The Notes 60 1.
Accounting policies continued financial instruments held for trading.
As such they are fair valued through profit or loss and the net gains arising are the only items shown within gains less losses arising from dealing in securities in the income statement.
Other investments designated at inception under the fair value option Listed investments are valued at bid price.
Unlisted investments comprise those made in various private equity limited liability partnerships.
These partnerships themselves typically invest in unquoted companies via equity and loans and value each investment semi-annually in compliance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines endorsed by the British Private Equity and Venture Capital Association, such valuations being externally audited annually.
Further details on the valuation methodologies for unlisted investments are included in Note 33 Financial Risk Management on pages 91 to 99.
Floating rate notes held to maturity These are investments with fixed or determinable payments that are held with the intention and ability to hold to maturity.
They are initially recognised at fair value including direct and incremental transaction costs and subsequently valued at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is the initial amount adjusted for subsequent payments, less cumulative amortisation calculated using the EIR method.
The resulting balance is reduced for amounts which are considered to be impaired or uncollectible.
Financial instruments classified as available for sale These are recognised at fair value plus any directly attributable purchase costs, with changes being accounted for through equity.
If such an asset is sold or there is objective evidence that it is impaired, the cumulative gains and losses recognised in equity are recycled to the income statement.
In subsequent periods if the fair value of an available for sale debt security increases due to an event which occurred after the impairment loss was recognised, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
Impairment losses on available for sale equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement but are recognised directly in equity.
Certificates of deposit classified as loans and receivables under IAS 39 These are purchased for liquidity purposes and normally held to maturity.
They are unlisted and due to mature within one year and are valued at amortised cost.
Equity shares held by the employee benefit trust These are held at cost and shown within equity as part of Share-based reserves.
Realised surpluses and deficits are not taken to the income statement.
q Loans to and from money brokers against stock advanced Loans to money brokers against stock advanced are the cash collateral provided to these institutions for stock borrowing by the groups market-making activities.
Interest is paid on the stock borrowed and earned on the cash deposits held.
The stock borrowing to which the cash deposits relate is short-term in nature and is recorded at the amount receivable.
Loans from money brokers against stock collateral provided are recorded at the amount payable.
Interest is paid on the loans payable.
r Derivatives and hedge accounting In general, derivatives are used to minimise the impact of interest and currency rate changes to the groups financial instruments and meet the IAS 39 criteria for hedge accounting.
They are carried on the balance sheet at fair value which is obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, including recent market transactions, and discounted cash flow models.
On acquisition, a derivative is designated as a hedge and the group formally documents the relationship between the derivative and the hedged item.
The group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivative is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
If a hedge was deemed partially ineffective but continues to qualify for hedge accounting, the amount of the ineffectiveness, taking into account the timing of the expected cash flows where relevant, would be recorded in the income statement.
If the hedge is not, or has ceased to be, highly effective the group discontinues hedge accounting.
For fair value hedges, changes in the fair value are recognised in the income statement, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged item.
For cash flow hedges, the fair value gain or loss associated with the effective proportion of the cash flow hedge is recognised initially directly in equity and recycled to the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects income.
s Other financial liabilities Financial liabilities, other than derivative financial instruments and those held for trading, are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of those financial liabilities.
After initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the EIR method.
