CoMpany aCCountinG poliCies taXation aCCounting Convention the financial statements have been prepared under the historical Current uK corporation tax and foreign tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that cost convention and in accordance with applicable law and united Kingdom accounting standards.
the principal accounting policies have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
they have all been applied consistently deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that throughout the year and the preceding year in dealing with items have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where that are considered material in relation to the Companys financial transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax statements.
in accordance with section 408 of the Companies act in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred 2006 a separate profit and loss account dealing with the results of at the balance sheet date.
timing differences are differences the Company has not been presented.
between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated going ConCern in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in the directors have at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources which they are recognised in the financial statements.
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
a net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable the Finance directors report on page 25. profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
investments investments are held at cost less provision for impairment.
deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected foreign CurrenCies to reverse based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
deferred tax is at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
measured on a discounted basis to reflect the time value of money at each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that over the period between the balance sheet date and the dates on are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates which it is estimated that the underlying timing differences will prevailing on the balance sheet date.
non-monetary items that are reverse.
the discount rates used reflect the post-tax yields to maturity measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not that can be obtained on government bonds with similar maturity retranslated.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included dates and currencies to those of the deferred tax assets or liabilities.
in net profit or loss for the period.
DeBt pension Costs debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after For defined benefit and defined contribution schemes, the amount deduction of issue costs.
the carrying amount is increased by the charged to the profit and loss account in respect of pension costs is finance cost in respect of the accounting period and reduced by the contributions payable in the year.
For further details see note 10. payments made in the period.
Finance costs of debt are recognised leases in the profit and loss account over the term of such instruments assets held under finance leases and other similar contracts, at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
which confer rights and obligations similar to those attached relateD party transaCtions to owned assets, are capitalised as tangible fixed assets and are the Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained depreciated over the shorter of the lease terms and their useful in Frs 8 related party transactions not to disclose transactions lives.
the capital elements of future lease obligations are recorded or balances with wholly-owned entities of the Group.
as liabilities, while the interest elements are charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the lease to produce a constant share-BaseD payments rate of charge on the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
the Company has applied the requirements of Frs 20 Hire purchase transactions are dealt with similarly, except that share-based payment.
assets are depreciated over their useful lives.
the Company issues equity-settled share-based payments rental costs under operating leases are charged to the profit and to certain employees.
equity-settled share-based payments are loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
measured at fair value at the date of grant.
the fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is the Company as lessor expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
at each amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the number receivables at the amount of the Companys net investment in the of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of leases.
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so non-market based vesting conditions.
the impact of the revision as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Companys of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such net investment outstanding in respect of the leases.
that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimates with a tangiBle fiXeD assets corresponding adjustment to the equity-settled employee benefits tangible fixed assets are stated at cost net of depreciation and any reserve.
Fair value is measured by use of a black-scholes model.
depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis, to reduce the carrying value to the estimated residual value at the point of sale, at the following annual rates: Fixtures and fittings: 10% to 20% residual value is calculated on prices prevailing at the date of acquisition.
business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts bodyCote annual report 2010 93
