Group aCCountinG poliCies going ConCern Basis of aCCounting the financial statements of the Group have been prepared in the directors have at the time of approving the financial statements a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have accordance with international Financial reporting standards iFrs.
the financial statements have also been prepared in accordance adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
thus they continue to adopt the going concern with iFrs adopted by the european union and therefore the group financial statements comply with article 4 of eu ias regulation as basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the Finance directors report on page 25. adopted for use in the eu.
the Group has adopted standards and interpretations issued Basis of ConsoliDation by the international accounting standards board iasb and the the consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial international Financial reporting interpretations Committee of the statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company iasb iFriC.
individual standards and interpretations have to be its subsidiaries made up to 31 december each year.
Control is achieved adopted by the european Commission eC and the process leads where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating to a delay between the issue and adoption of new standards and policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities in some cases amendment by the eC.
except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
international Financial reporting standards are subject to ongoing amendment by the iasb and subsequent endorsement by the eC on acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities and are therefore subject to change.
of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values the financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
basis, with the exception of accounting for share-based payments any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of and certain financial instruments.
the principal accounting policies the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition adopted are set out below.
is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
aDoption of new anD reviseD stanDarDs the interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys the following new and revised standards and interpretations proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
have been adopted in the current year.
their adoption has not had subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial of the minority interest are allocated against the interests of the parent.
statements but may impact the accounting for future transactions the results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year and arrangements.
are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective ifrs 3 revised Jan 2008 Business Combinations, ias 27 date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
amended 2008 Consolidated and separate financial statements where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements and ias 28 amended 2008 investments in associates of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with these standards have introduced a number of changes in the those used by the Group.
accounting for business combinations when acquiring a subsidiary or all intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are an associate.
iFrs 3 2008 has also introduced additional disclosure eliminated on consolidation.
investments in assoCiates ifriC 17 Distributions of non-cash assets to owners an associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise the interpretation provides guidance on when an entity should significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation recognise a non-cash dividend payable, how to measure the dividend in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
payable and how to account for any difference between the carrying the results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated amount of the assets distributed and the carrying amount of the in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
dividend payable when the payable is settled.
investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as the following amendments were made as part of improvements to adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net iFrss 2009 : assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual amendments to ifrs 2 share-based payment investments.
losses of the associates in excess of the Groups iFrs 2 has been amended following the issue of iFrs 3 2008, to interest in those associates are not recognised.
confirm that the contribution of a business on the formation of a joint any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of venture and common control transactions are not within the scope of the fair values of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent iFrs 2. in addition, the amendments to iFrs 2 clarify the accounting liabilities of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised for share-based payment transactions between group entities.
the goodwill is included within the carrying amount amendments to ias 17 leases of the investment.
any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable assets, ias 17 has been amended such that it may be possible to classify liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate at the date a lease of land as a finance lease if it meets the criteria for that of acquisition i. e. discount on acquisition is credited in profit classification under ias 17. and loss in the period of acquisition.
amendments to ias 39 financial instruments: recognition where a group company transacts with an associate of the Group, and measurement profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups ias 39 has been amended to state that options contracts between interest in the relevant associate.
losses may provide evidence of an acquirer and a selling shareholder to buy or sell an acquiree that an impairment of the asset transferred, in which case appropriate will result in a business combination at a future acquisition date are provision is made for impairment.
not excluded from the scope of the standard.
business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts bodyCote annual report 2010 51 Group aCCountinG poliCies Continued assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of non-Current assets helD for sale non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
the corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
lease payments non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on rather than through continuing use.
this condition is regarded as met the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group directly against income.
is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
gooDwill Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset the group as lessor at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as is measured as the excess of the cost of acquisition over the receivables at the amount of the Groups net investment in the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, leases.
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary or associate at as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Groups net the date of acquisition.
if after restatement, the Groups interest in investment outstanding in respect of the leases.
the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and foreign CurrenCies contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least at each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit prevailing on the balance sheet date.
non-monetary items that are from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment retranslated.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included bi-annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that in net profit or loss for the period.
if the recoverable amount of the cashexchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the in which they arise except for: impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to acquired intangibles, exchange differences on transactions entered into to hedge followed by the other tangible assets of the unit.
an impairment loss certain foreign currency risks see below under financial recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
instruments hedge accounting : and on disposal of a subsidiary or associate, the attributable amount of exchange differences on monetary items receivable from or goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur therefore forming part of the net Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to iFrs investment in the foreign operation which are recognised initially has been retained at the previous uK Gaap amounts, subject to in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reclassified from equity to profit or loss on disposal or partial reserves under uK Gaap prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is disposal of the net investment.
not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
revenue reCognition on consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and sheet date.
income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates fluctuate services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, vat and other sales-related taxes.
revenue is recognised on the significantly.
exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
such completion of services rendered.
translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the the period in which the operation is disposed of.
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
the Group has elected to treat assets net carrying amount.
goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions before the dividend income from investments is recognised when the date of transition to iFrs as sterling-denominated assets and liabilities.
shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Borrowing Costs the group as lessee borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the which they are incurred.
borrowing costs directly attributable to the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which to the lessee.
all other leases are classified as operating leases.
are assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use.
52 bodyCote annual report 2010 business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary government grants Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to treated as deferred income and released to profit and loss over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
operating profit deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs, goodwill impairment, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and after the in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except post-tax share of results of associates but before investment income and finance costs.
when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
DisContinueD operations the carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each in accordance with iFrs 5 non-current assets Held for sale and balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer discontinued operations, the Group has separately disclosed probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow the results of the testing division as discontinued following the all or part of the asset to be recovered.
disposal of the business in october 2008, and subsequent provision adjustment during 2010. deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set-off current tax assets against current tax retirement Benefit Costs liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax charged as an expense as they fall due.
payments made to stateassets and liabilities on a net basis.
managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under property, plant anD equipment the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated retirement benefit scheme.
depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other determined using the projected unit Credit Method, with actuarial than land and properties under construction, less their residual valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
actuarial values, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they method, on the following bases: occur.
they are recognised outside profit or loss and presented in Freehold buildings 2% the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
leasehold property over the period of the lease past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the Fixtures and fittings 10% - 20% benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straightplant and machinery 5% - 20% line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
Motor vehicles 20% - 33% the retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by over the term of the relevant lease.
the gain or loss arising on the the fair value of the scheme assets.
any asset resulting from this disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
and is recognised in income.
taXation assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, plus appropriate the tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable borrowing costs, less any recognised impairment loss.
commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
the tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
impairment of tangiBle anD intangiBle assets taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income eXCluDing gooDwill statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are at each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is are never taxable or deductible.
the Groups liability for current tax any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively if any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is enacted by the balance sheet date.
estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
where the asset does not generate cash flows that are deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and sheet liability method.
deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised value in use.
in assessing value in use, the estimated future cash for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are flows are discounted to their present value using a discount rate that recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and will be available against which deductible temporary differences the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash can be utilised.
such assets and liabilities are not recognised if flows have not been adjusted.
the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial if the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is recognition other than in a business combination of other assets estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
an impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts bodyCote annual report 2010 53 Group aCCountinG poliCies Continued where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are subsequently revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
objective evidence of carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Groups past have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
a reversal of an delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period, as impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
inventories inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
the carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
when a trade receivable is inventories to their present location and condition.
net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of considered uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account.
subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying finanCial instruments amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups Derivative finanCial instruments balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
the Group uses derivative financial instruments, in particular interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and forward exchange contracts, loans and receivables to manage the financial risks arising from the business activities and trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or the financing of those activities.
the Group does not use derivative determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market financial instruments for speculative purposes.
are classified as loans and receivables.
loans and receivables are the use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, approved by the board of directors, which provide written principles less any impairment.
interest income is recognised by applying the on the use of financial derivatives.
effective interest rate, except for trade receivables, which do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
liabilities measured at their fair value on the balance sheet date.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do Cash and Cash equivalents not fulfil the criteria for hedge accounting contained in ias 39 are Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits recognised immediately in the income statement.
a derivative is and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it changes in value.
is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
financial liabilities and equity heDge aCCounting Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the Group uses foreign currency debt and cross currency swaps the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
an equity to hedge its exposure to changes in the underlying net assets of instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the overseas operations arising from foreign exchange rate movements.
assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
the Group maintains documentation of the relationship between Bank Borrowings the hedged item and the hedging instrument at the inception of a interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds hedging transaction together with the risk management objective received, net of transaction costs.
Finance charges, including premiums and the strategy underlying the designated hedge.
the Group payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted also documents its assessment, both at the inception of the for on an accruals basis to the income statement using the effective hedging relationship and subsequently on an ongoing basis, of the interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument effectiveness of the hedge in offsetting movements in the fair values to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
or cash flows of the hedged items.
trade payables when hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships are trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
note 20 sets out the details of the fair values of the derivative equity instruments instruments used for hedging purposes.
equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and impairment of financial assets qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows Cash flow hedge of the investment have been impacted.
Cash flow hedging matches the cash flows of hedged items against the corresponding cash flow of the derivative.
the effective part of objective evidence of impairment could include: any gain or loss on the derivative is recognised directly in equity and significant financial difficulty of the customer or counterparty: or the hedged item is accounted for in accordance with the policy for default or delinquency in payments.
any ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
54 bodyCote annual report 2010 business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument or in other circumstances where remediation by the Group is expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for required.
the provision is reviewed annually.
at that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the key sourCes of estimation unCertainty hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of the forecast transaction occurs.
if a hedged transaction is no longer estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
net investment hedge impairment of goodwill and fixed assets Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for determining whether goodwill and fixed assets are impaired requires similarly to cash flow hedges.
to the extent the hedge is effective, an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument arising from which the assets have been allocated.
the value in use calculation the hedged risk are recognised in the consolidated statement of requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging and translation arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in reserve.
the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is order to calculate present value.
recognised immediately in the income statement.
retirement Benefit schemes Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income accounting for retirement benefit schemes under ias 19 requires statement in the event that the foreign operation is disposed of.
an assessment of the future benefits payable in accordance with provisions actuarial assumptions, which are set out in note 30. provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation taxation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, when it is probable the Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
significant that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and when a judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for tax.
reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate the amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the the Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
where the surrounding the obligation.
where a provision is measured using the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current amount is the present value of those cash flows.
tax provision, deferred tax provisions and income statement in the period in which such determination is made.
provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid general information expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring bodycote plc is a company incorporated in the united Kingdom under by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to the Companies acts 1948 to 1980. the address of the registered those affected by it.
office is given on page 45. the nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out on page 32 in the directors report.
the measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring which are those these financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in the Foreign Currencies accounting policy above.
share-BaseD payments the Group has applied the requirements of iFrs 2 share-based payment.
at the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these the Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some employees.
equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair cases had not yet been adopted by the eu : value at the date of grant.
the fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line iFrs 9: Financial instruments basis over the vesting period.
at each balance sheet date, the Group ias 24 amended : related party disclosures revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to ias 32 amended : Classification of rights issues vest as a result of the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
iFriC 19: extinguishing Financial liabilities with equity instruments the impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised iFriC 14 amended : prepayments of a Minimum Funding requirement estimates with a corresponding adjustment to the equity-settled employee iFrs 7 amended : disclosure transfers of Financial assets benefits reserve.
Fair value is measured by use of a black-scholes model.
ias 12 amended : deferred tax: recovery of underlying assets CritiCal JuDgements in applying the groups improvements to iFrss May 2010 aCCounting poliCies in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are the adoption of iFrs 9, which the Group plans to adopt for the year described above, management has made the following judgements beginning on 1 january 2013, will impact both the measurement and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised disclosures of Financial instruments.
the directors do not expect that in the financial statements apart from those involving estimations, the adoption of the other standards listed above will have a material which are dealt with below.
impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
provisions for environmental liabilities the Group provides for the costs of environmental remediation that have been identified, either as part of acquisition due diligence, business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts bodyCote annual report 2010 55
