direCtors responsibilities stateMent responsiBility of DireCtors for the preparation responsiBility statement of the DireCtors in respeCt of the annual report anD finanCial statements of the annual report anD the finanCial statements the directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, we confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the board report on remuneration and the financial statements the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit for each financial year.
under that law the directors are required to or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in prepare the group financial statements in accordance with international the consolidation taken as a whole: and Financial reporting standards iFrss as adopted by the european the Chairmans statement, the Chief executives report, union and article 4 of the ias regulation and have elected to prepare the Finance directors report, all the information contained the parent company financial statements in accordance with united on pages 8 to 43 together comprise the directors report for Kingdom Generally accepted accounting practice united Kingdom the year ended 31 december 2010. it includes a fair review accounting standards and applicable law.
under company law the of the development and performance of the business and the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied position of the Company and the undertakings included in the that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
in preparing the parent company financial statements, the directors this responsibility statement was approved by the board of directors are required to: on 24 February 2011 and is signed on its behalf by: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable uK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and s. C. harris prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Chief executive unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 24 February 2011 continue in business.
in preparing the Group financial statements, international accounting standard 1 requires that directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable D. f. landless information: Finance director provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 24 February 2011 specific requirements in iFrss are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
the directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies act 2006. they are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
the directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
legislation in the united Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
44 bodyCote annual report 2010 business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts
