independent auditors report to tHe MeMbers oF bodyCote plC we have audited the parent company financial statements of opinion on finanCial statements bodycote plc for the year ended 31 december 2010 which comprise in our opinion the parent company financial statements: the Company balance sheet, the Company accounting policies and give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs the related notes 1 to 11. the financial reporting framework that as at 31 december 2010: has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and united have been properly prepared in accordance with united Kingdom Kingdom accounting standards united Kingdom Generally accepted Generally accepted accounting practice: and accounting practice.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements this report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, of the Companies act 2006. in accordance with Chapter 3 of part 16 of the Companies act 2006. our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the opinion on other matter presCriBeD companys members those matters we are required to state to them By the Companies aCt 2006 in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
to the fullest extent in our opinion the information given in the directors report for permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared other than the company and the companys members as a body, for is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
matters on whiCh we are requireD respeCtive responsiBilities of DireCtors anD auDitors to report By eXCeption as explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, we have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent the Companies act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: company financial statements and for being satisfied that they adequate accounting records have not been kept by the give a true and fair view.
our responsibility is to audit and express parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance been received from branches not visited by us: or with applicable law and international standards on auditing uK and ireland.
those standards require us to comply with the auditing the parent company financial statements and the part of practices boards apbs ethical standards for auditors.
the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or sCope of the auDit of the finanCial statements certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified an audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and by law are not made: or disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material we have not received all the information and explanations misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
this includes we require for our audit.
an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate other matter to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently we have reported separately on the group financial statements applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant of bodycote plc for the year ended 31 december 2010 and the accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall information in the board report on remuneration that is described presentation of the financial statements.
nicola mitchell senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of deloitte llp Chartered accountants and statutory auditors Manchester, uK 24 February 2011 92 bodyCote annual report 2010 business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts
