DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2010 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS GLOSSARY OF HEDGE FUND STRATEGIES Long Short Equities Macro Long Short Equity strategies generally involve taking both Macro strategies generally involve fundamental, long and short positions in equity securities that are deemed discretionary, directional trading in fixed income, currencies, to be under or overvalued.
Although the combination of long equities and commodities, using futures and other and short investing can provide an element of protection derivatives.
Portfolio Managers invest in a wide variety of against but not eliminate directional market exposure, strategies and financial instruments, often assuming an long short equity Portfolio Managers generally do not attempt aggressive risk posture.
Most Portfolio Managers rely on to neutralise the amount of long and short positions i. e. they macro-economic analyses to invest across countries, will be net long or net short.
Portfolio Managers may markets, sectors and companies.
Futures and options are specialise in a particular industry or may diversify holdings often used for hedging and speculation and the use of across industries.
Portfolio Managers in this strategy usually leverage varies considerably.
employ a low to moderate degree of leverage.
Event Driven Long Short Credit Even Driven strategies generally involve taking sizeable long Portfolio Managers implementing Long Short Credit equity positions in individual companies in order to help put strategies generally take both long and short positions in into effect changes at the company intended to unlock value credit-related instruments, such as corporate bonds, bank that is not currently reflected in the market.
loans, trade claims, emerging market debt and credit derivatives e. g. credit default swaps.
Portfolio Managers Multi-Strategy Opportunistic utilising this strategy usually invest in companies in financial Multi-Strategy Opportunistic strategies generally involve difficulty, reorganisation or bankruptcy and their portfolios Portfolio Managers dynamically allocating capital to specific are often concentrated in debt instruments.
The use of trades and strategies exhibiting unique risk return leverage varies considerably.
Portfolio Managers differ in characteristics in a given market environment.
Trades can be their preference for actively participating in the workout and either arbitrage oriented, event-driven, or directional in restructuring process and the extent to which they use nature and strategies may include long short equities, leverage.
Although Long Short Credit strategies typically long short credit, event-driven, special situations, convertible involve positions in debt instruments and credit derivatives, bond arbitrage, capital structure arbitrage, volatility trading, the Portfolio Managers implementing this strategy perform fixed income arbitrage and statistical arbitrage.
extensive research on companies and may use this information to invest both long and short in the equity securities of such companies.
Portfolio Hedge Portfolio Hedge strategies generally seek to profit from declining security prices, through short positions in either the equity, debt or  derivatives of companies with unfavourable prospects.
The strategy performs best in declining markets and therefore is especially attractive in a multi-manager fund to help reduce the funds total exposure to general stock market movements.
Portfolio Managers use a range of fundamental and technical investment methodologies to identify potential positions, may or may not remain fully invested and use varying degrees of leverage.
Some Portfolio Managers assume modest long positions while remaining net short.
