Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities pic 51 Report and Accounts 2010 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the eighth Annual General Meeting of Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities pic will be held at the Royal Society of Arts, 8 John Adam Street, London, WC2N 6EZ on 6 September, 2010 at 10.00 a. m. for the following purposes: As ordinary business 1.
To receive and adopt the accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 March, 2010 and the reports of the Directors and the independent auditor 2.
To approve the Directors' remuneration report for the year ended 31 March, 2010 3.
To re-elect Ian Barby, who retires by rotation in accordance with the Company's Articles of Association, as a Director 4.
To re-elect John Murray, who retires in accordance with the Listing Rules, as a Director 5.
To re-elect Martin Negre, who retires in accordance with the Listing Rules, as a Director 6.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as independent auditor to the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company 7.
To authorise the Directors to fix the auditor's remuneration As special business 8.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: THAT: i in substitution for all subsisting authorities to the extent unused, the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company: a up to an aggregate nominal amount of 70,000: and b comprising equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of the Act up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 70,000 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the Directors otherwise consider necessary, and so that Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter including any such problems arising by virtue of equity securities being represented by depositary receipts.
The authorities conferred on the Directors under paragraphs a and b above shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Resolution or on 30 September 2011, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares to be granted after such expiry and the Directors may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares as the case may be in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities pic 52 Report and Accounts 2010 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 9.
"To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution: THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 8 above and in substitution for all subsisting authorities to the extent unused, the Directors be and they are hereby empowered, pursuant to section 570 and section 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 8 as if section 561 I of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power: a shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities but in the case of the authority granted under paragraph b of Resolution 8 by way of a rights issue only : i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the Directors otherwise consider necessary, and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with any treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter including any such problems arising by virtue of equity securities being represented by depositary receipts : b in the case of the authority granted under paragraph a of Resolution 8, shall be limited to the allotment otherwise than under paragraph a of this Resolution 9 of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 21,000 being approximately 10 per cent of the Company's issued Ordinary Share capital as at 30 July, 2010 : and c shall apply in relation to a sale of shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 560 3 of the Act as if in the first paragraph of this Resolution 9 the words ""subject to the passing of Resolution 8 above"" were omitted and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Resolution or on 30 September, 2011, whichever is the earlier, except that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired."
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution: THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 0.1 p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares and Subscription Shares of 0.1 p each in the capital of the Company Subscription Shares on such terms and in such manner as the Directors of the Company shall from time to time determine, provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares and Subscription Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 31,531,200 being approximately 14.99 per cent of the number of Ordinary Shares in issue at the date of passing of this Resolution : b the minimum price exclusive of all expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary Share or a Subscription Share is its nominal value, being 0.1p: c the maximum price exclusive of all expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is not more than the higher of an amount equal to 5 per cent above the average of the closing mid-market price of such shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-Back and Stabilisation Regulation, and the maximum price exclusive of all expenses which may be paid for a Subscription Share is not more than the amount equal to 5 per cent above the average of the closing mid-market price of such shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities pic 53 Report and Accounts 2010 d the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 30 November, 2011 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed by the Company in general meeting: and e the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of such authority make a contract or contracts to purchase Ordinary Shares or Subscription Shares under such authority which will or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares or Subscription Shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a special resolution: THAT a general meeting other than an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days' notice.
Registered office Springfield Lodge Colchester Road Chelmsford Essex CM2 5PW By Order of the Board Phoenix Administration Services Limited Secretary 12 August, 2010 Notes 1 Only holders of Ordinary Shares of 0.1p each are entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
Holders of Subscription Shares of 0.1 p each are not entitled to attend or vote at the meeting by virtue of their holding of such shares.
Each shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more persons to act as his her proxy to attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
If a member appoints more than one proxy to attend the meeting, each proxy must be appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by the member.
2 A form of proxy for use at the meeting is enclosed.
If a member wishes to appoint more than one proxy and so requires additional proxy forms, the member should contact Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU.
To be valid, the form of proxy must be completed and executed in accordance with the instructions thereon and must then be deposited, together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is executed or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, with Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, PO Box 25, Beckenham Kent BR3 4BR or by hand only during normal business hours with Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU not less than 48 hours before the time of the holding of the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
Completion and return of a form of proxy will not preclude a shareholder from attending or voting at the meeting if he she subsequently wishes to do so.
3 Pursuant to regulation 41 1 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 as amended and for the purposes of section 360B of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has specified that only those members registered on the register of members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. on 4 September, 2010 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 48 hours prior to the time of the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of Ordinary Shares registered in their names at that time.
Changes to entries in the register of members after 6.00 p. m. on 4 September, 2010 or other relevant deadline will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person entitled to vote at the meeting.
Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities pic 54 Report and Accounts 2010 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 4 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting and any adjournment thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual available via www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a 'CREST Proxy Instruction' must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited's specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to an instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Company's agent ID RA10 not less than 48 hours before the time of the holding of the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Company's agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat a CREST Proxy Instruction as invalid in the circumstances set out in regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
5 Corporate representatives have the same rights to attend and vote at the meeting as the shareholder that appointed them could have exercised if it were an individual member provided, in the case of multiple corporate representatives of the same corporate shareholder, they are appointed in respect of different shares owned by the corporate shareholder or, if they are appointed in respect of those same shares, they vote those shares in the same way.
To be able to attend and vote at the meeting, corporate representatives will be required to produce prior to their entry to the meeting evidence satisfactory to the Company of their appointment.
Corporate shareholders can also appoint one or more proxies in accordance with Notes 1 and 2 and, if relevant, Note 4 above.
Corporate shareholders should be aware that the arrangements put in place at previous meetings to facilitate voting by corporate representatives have now been withdrawn following changes to the statutory rules for corporate representatives.
Please note, however, that if multiple corporate representatives purport to vote the same block of shares in different ways, they will be treated as not having voted.
6 Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
Pursuant to section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must cause to be answered any question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member attending the meeting.
However, shareholders should note that no answer need be given in the following circumstances: i if to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or would involve a disclosure of confidential information: ii if the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or iii if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
7 If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given discretion as to how the votes the subject of those proxies are cast and the voting rights in respect of those discretionary proxies, when added to the interests in the Company's securities already held by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding such number of voting rights that he has a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary notifications to the Company and the Financial Services Authority.
As a result, any member holding 3% or more of the voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those voting rights, and so would otherwise have a notification obligation under the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules, need not make a separate notification to the Company and the Financial Services Authority.
Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities pic 55 Report and Accounts 2010 8 Any person receiving a copy of this Notice as a person nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under section 146 Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person should note that the provisions in Notes 1 and 2 above concerning the appointment of a proxy or proxies to attend the meeting in place of a member do not apply to a Nominated Person, as only shareholders have the right to appoint a proxy.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between the Nominated Person and the member by whom he or she was nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights at the meeting.
Nominated Persons should also remember that their main point of contact in terms of their investment in the Company remains the member who nominated the Nominated Person to enjoy information rights or perhaps the custodian or broker who administers the investment on their behalf.
Nominated Persons should continue to contact that member, custodian or broker and not the Company regarding any changes or queries relating to the Nominated Person's personal details and interest in the Company including any administrative matters.
The only exception to this is where the Company expressly requests a response from a Nominated Person.
9 Under section 527 Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the Company's accounts including the auditor's report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting: or b any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Company's auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
10 As at 5 August, 2010, being the last business day prior to the printing of this Notice, the Company's issued capital consisted of 210,348,227 Ordinary Shares carrying one vote each and 42,036,128 Subscription Shares carrying no entitlement to vote at the meeting.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 5 August, 2010 are 210,348,227 11 This Notice, together with information about the total numbers of shares in the Company and shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting as at 5 August 2010, being the last business day prior to the printing of this Notice and, if applicable, any members' statements, members' resolutions or members' matters of business received by the Company after the date of this Notice, will be available on the Company's website www.
12 Any electronic address provided either in this Notice or in any related documents including the form of proxy may not be used to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
13 No Director has a service agreement with the Company or its subsidiary.
Copies of the Directors' letters of appointment will be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes before the start of the meeting until the conclusion of the meeting.
