L15825 Edinburgh pp53 60 2 6 10 4:56 pm Page 57 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 57 GLOSSARY OF TERMS Benchmark A market index, which averages the performance of companies in any sector, giving a good indication of any rises or falls in the market.
Discount Premium The amount by which the mid-market price per share of an investment trust is lower higher than the net asset value per share.
The discount premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value of the share.
Dividend Yield The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the current share price.
Gearing The term defines the effect of borrowings which increase the return on investments when the value of the Companys investments is rising but reduce the return when values are declining.
A gearing level of 100 or 0% indicates there is no gearing.
Actual Gearing reflects the scale of borrowings in use by the Company at any particular time.
It is calculated by dividing the aggregate of borrowings less cash and investments in money market funds by shareholders funds.
Potential Gearing reflects the utilisation of the maximum of all arranged borrowings.
It is calculated by dividing the aggregate of borrowings by shareholders funds.
Net Asset Value NAV Also described as shareholders funds, the net asset value is the value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities include current and long-term liabilities.
The net asset value per share is calculated by dividing the net asset value by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Return The return generated in the period from the investments.
Capital Return reflects the return on capital, excluding any income returns.
Total Return reflects the aggregate of capital and income returns in the period.
The NAV total return reflects capital changes in the NAV and dividends paid in the period.
Total Expense Ratio The total expenses including those charged to capital, but excluding interest incurred by the Company and the effect of VAT refunds on management fees, expressed as a percentage of average net assets shareholders funds.
L15825 Edinburgh pp53 60 2 6 10 4:56 pm Page 58 58 The Manager of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is Invesco Asset Management Limited.
Invesco Asset Management Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Invesco Limited and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Invesco Perpetual is a business name of Invesco Asset Management Limited.
Invesco Perpetual is one of the largest independent global investment management firms, with funds under management in excess of $456.9 billion.
We aim to provide the highest returns available from markets, through active management, but in a controlled manner, conscious of the risks involved and within our clients objectives.
Funds under Management as at 30 April 2010.
