L15825 Edinburgh pp15 36 2 6 10 4:56 pm Page 31 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 31 Reviewing and approving the audit fee and reviewing any non-audit fees payable to the Companys external Auditors: Reviewing the external Auditors terms of engagement: Reviewing the external Auditors plan for the audit of the Companys financial statements: Reviewing the external Auditors quality control procedures: Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process and the external Auditors independence and objectivity: Recommending the re-appointment of the external Auditors to the Board: Review of the internal financial and non-financial controls and risk management systems with the Manager against risk parameters approved by the Board: and Considering the scope of work undertaken by the Managers internal audit and compliance departments.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year in the performance of their duties.
In addition, the Audit Committee Chairman meets with the Manager on a regular basis, and from time to time with the External Auditors.
The Audit Committee has received satisfactory reports on the Managers internal operations from the Managers Compliance and Internal Audit departments.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 with the Manager and the Auditors at the conclusion of the audit process.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the AGM to deal with questions relating to the accounts.
Auditors Non-Audit Services The Companys policy is not to seek substantial non-audit services from its Auditors.
The Audit Committee considers whether the skills and experience of the Auditors make them a suitable supplier of the non-audit service and whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit resulting from the provision of such services.
Apart from the normal audit-related services, during the year the Companys Auditors also provided a review of the half-yearly financial report and a review of the Annual Certificate of Compliance to the Trustee of the debenture stock.
Details are set out in note 4 to the financial statements.
Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is through the half-yearly and annual financial report, which aim to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and their results.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation and publication at the Stock Exchange of the net asset value of the Companys ordinary shares and by a monthly fact sheet produced by the Manager.
At each AGM, a presentation is made by the investment manager following the business of the Meeting and shareholders have the opportunity to communicate directly with the whole Board.
There is a regular dialogue between the Manager and institutional shareholders to discuss aspects of investment performance, governance and strategy and to listen to shareholder views in order to help develop an understanding of their issues and concerns.
General presentations to both institutional shareholders and analysts follow the publication of the annual results.
All meetings between the Manager and institutional and other shareholders are reported to the Board.
During the year, the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the other Directors also met representatives of those major shareholders who accepted an invitation from the Chairman to meet.
It is the intention of the Board that the annual financial report and Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the AGM are invited to do so, either on the reverse of the proxy card or otherwise in writing to the Company Secretary at the address given on page 13.
At other times, the Company responds to letters from shareholders on a range of issues.
