L15825 Edinburgh pp37 52 2 6 10 4:57 pm Page 41 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 41 1.
Principal Accounting Policies continued c Financial Instruments continued v Classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities continued Fair value for investments that are actively traded in organised financial markets is determined by reference to stock exchange quoted bid prices at the balance sheet date.
Fair value for investments that are actively traded but where active stock exchange quoted bid prices are not available is determined by reference to a variety of valuation techniques including broker quotes and price modelling.
Unquoted, unlisted or illiquid investments are valued by the Directors at fair value using a variety of valuation techniques including earnings multiples, recent transactions and other market indicators, cash flows and net assets.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
d Hedging and Derivatives Forward currency contracts entered into for hedging purposes are valued at the appropriate forward exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Profits or losses on the closure or revaluation of positions are included in capital reserves.
Futures contracts may be entered into for hedging purposes and any profits and losses on the closure or revaluation of positions are included in capital reserves.
Derivative instruments are valued at fair value in the balance sheet.
Derivative instruments may be capital or revenue in nature and, accordingly, changes in their fair value are recognised in revenue or capital in the income statement as appropriate.
e Income Interest income arising from fixed income securities and cash is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Dividend income arises from equity investments held and is recognised on the date investments are marked ex-dividend.
Deposit interest and underwriting commission receivable are taken into account on an accruals basis.
f Expenses and Finance Costs Expenses are recognised on an accruals basis and finance costs are recognised using the effective interest method in the income statement.
The investment management fee and finance costs are allocated 70% to capital and 30% to revenue.
This is in accordance with the Boards expected long-term split of returns, in the form of capital gains and income respectively, from the portfolio.
The performance fee is allocated wholly to capital as it arises from capital returns on the portfolio.
Expenses in connection with the previous years change of manager and transaction costs are recognised in capital in the income statement.
All other expenses are allocated to revenue in the income statement.
g Taxation The liability to corporation tax is based on net revenue for the year, excluding non-taxable dividends.
The tax charge is allocated between the revenue and capital account on the marginal basis whereby revenue expenses are matched first against taxable income in the revenue account.
Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements.
Deferred taxation assets are recognised where, in the opinion of the directors, it is more likely than not that these amounts will be realised in future periods.
