L15825 Edinburgh pp01 14 2 6 10 4:54 pm Page 14 14 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The shares of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Internet addresses are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
co. uk Invesco Perpetual www.
co. uk Savings Plan and ISA investmenttrusts The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is a member Association of www.
co. uk of the Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Investment Series 1: Savings and Investment Plan and the Companies Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Series 1: ISA.
Shares in this Company can be purchased and Financial Calendar sold via these two schemes.
In addition, the Company publishes information Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Series 1: according to the following calendar: Savings and Investment Plan Announcements The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Series 1: Half-yearly unaudited results November Savings and Investment Plan allows an investor Interim Management to make monthly purchases from as little as 20 Statements July and January per month or through lump sum investments of Final results May June 500 or above in the shares of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc in a straightforward and low Ordinary Share Dividends cost way.
1st interim payable November 2nd interim payable February Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Series 1: ISA 3rd interim payable May payment was brought forward The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Series 1: this year to 31 March 2010 ISA allows investments up to 10,200 in shares of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc in each tax Final payable July year.
Investors can also choose to make lump Debenture Stock sum investments from 500, or regular 1 11 2% 2014 interest investments from as little as 20 per month.
payable June and December For full details of these Invesco Perpetual 3 7 4% 2022 interest investment schemes please contact Invesco payable September and March Perpetuals Investor Services Team free on AGM July % 0800 085 8677.
Year End 31 March NAV Publication Location of AGM The net asset value of the Companys ordinary The one hundred and twenty first Annual shares NAV is calculated by the Manager on a General Meeting of the Company will be held at daily basis and is notified to the Stock Exchange the Weston Link, National Galleries of Scotland, on the next business day.
It is published daily in Princes Street, Edinburgh on 23 July 2010 at the newspapers detailed below.
Share Price Listings The investment manager, Neil Woodford, will be The price of your shares can be found in the making a presentation about the Company after following places: the AGM.
Financial Times Investment Companies Daily Telegraph Investment Trusts The Times Investment Companies The Scotsman Equity Inv Instruments Reuters ordinary shares EDIN.
L Bloomberg ordinary shares EDIN LN
