L15825 Edinburgh pp53 60 2 6 10 4:56 pm Page 59 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 59 SPECIALIST FUNDS MANAGED BY INVESCO PERPETUAL Investing for Income, Income Growth and Capital Growth from equities, fixed interest securities or property City Merchants High Yield Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc UK Equity Share Aims to generate a high level of income from a variety of fixed Portfolio income instruments combined with a degree of security.
The Portfolio Aims to generate long-term capital and income growth Company is geared by bank debt.
with real growth in dividends from investment, primarily in the UK equity market.
The portfolio is geared by bank debt.
Invesco Income Growth Trust plc Invesco Property Income Trust Limited Aims to provide shareholders with a long-term growth in capital and real, long-term growth in dividends from an above-average The Company is a closed-ended investment company with limited yielding portfolio comprising mainly UK equities and equity-related liability incorporated in Jersey.
The objective is to provide ordinary securities.
Seeks to achieve a total return in excess of the FTSE Allshareholders with an attractive level of income together with the Share Index.
The Company is geared by bank debt.
prospect of income and capital growth from investing in commercial properties in the UK and Continental Europe.
The Invesco Leveraged High Yield Fund Limited Company is geared by bank debt.
A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to provide Keystone Investment Trust plc a high level of income, paid gross to UK investors, whilst seeking to maximise total return through investing, primarily in a diversified Aims to provide shareholders with long-term growth of capital portfolio of high-yielding corporate and government bonds.
The mainly from UK investments.
The Company is geared by way of Company seeks to balance the attraction of high-yield securities debenture stocks.
with the need for protection of capital and to manage volatility.
The Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Company is highly geared.
Aims to generate capital growth with a higher than average Invesco Perpetual Recovery Trust 2011 plc income from investment, primarily in the UK equity market.
It is A split-capital investment trust with ordinary income shares, zero intended that the Company will provide shareholders with real dividend preference shares and units a combination of the two.
dividend growth over the medium-term by investing mainly in Aims to meet the capital entitlements of the zero dividend above-average yield equities.
However, investments are also made preference shares and to maximise the capital and income returns in companies with lower initial yields which are considered to have of the ordinary income shares by investing primarily in equities but good potential for income growth.
The Company is geared by a also debt securities which are considered to offer recovery debenture stock and bank debt.
Returns to ordinary income shareholders are geared by The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc the prior charge of the zero shares.
The Company has an initial life projected to end in 2011.
Invests in UK securities with long term objective of achieving: Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Managed Liquidity 1. an increase in the Net Asset Value per share by more than the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index: and Share Portfolio Aims to generate a high level of income from a variety of fixed 2. growth in dividends per share by more than the rate of UK income instruments combined with a high degree of security.
The portfolio is geared by way of two debenture stocks.
Investing in Smaller Companies Invesco English and International Trust plc Invesco Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc Invests mainly in UK-quoted and unquoted smaller companies, AIM stocks and in US smaller companies.
It pursues a relatively riskAims to achieve long-term total returns for the Companys averse stock selection strategy holding a well-diversified portfolio shareholders from investment in a broad cross-section of small to and seeks to invest in companies offering particular value.
The medium size UK-quoted companies.
The Company may gear by Company has adopted a flexible gearing policy and a quarterly bank debt.
Investing Internationally Invesco Asia Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Global Equity Share Portfolio Aims to provide long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of Asian and Australasian securities.
The Company aims to Aims to produce long-term capital growth from a sensibly achieve growth in its net asset value in excess of the Morgan Stanley diversified portfolio of international equities including the UK.
Capital International All Country Far East Free ex Japan Index, The portfolio comprises the best ideas of a number of Invesco measured in sterling.
Investing for Absolute Returns Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Hedge Fund Share Portfolio Aims to achieve absolute return of 3-month sterling LIBOR plus 6% per annum over a rolling 5-year period, coupled with low volatility.
Investing in Multiple Asset Classes Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc A choice of asset classes within one investment trust with the freedom to switch between them, twice a year, free from capital UK Equity Share Portfolio Global Equity Share Portfolio gains tax liability.
Managed Liquidity Share Portfolio Hedge Fund Share Portfolio Other Invesco Perpetual AiM VCT plc launch primarily through the realisation of capital gains from a portfolio of investments in AIM Qualifying Companies while The Company was launched in August 2004.
Its objective is to maintaining the capital value of shares.
provide a tax-free dividend return to shareholders invested at Please contact our Investor Services Team on 0800 085 8677 if you would like more information about the investment trusts or other specialist funds listed above.
Further details are also available on the following website: www.
