L15825 Edinburgh pp15 36 2 6 10 4:55 pm Page 29 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29 Accountability and Audit The Directors responsibilities with regard to the financial statements are set out on page 35 and the Independent Auditors Report is set out on page 36.
Internal Financial and Non-Financial Controls The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Companys systems of internal financial and non-financial controls internal controls which have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this report in order to safeguard shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
The Board reviews, at least annually, the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance and risk management systems.
The Companys system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve the Companys investment objective and or adhere to the Companys investment policy and or investment limits.
This system can therefore provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement of loss.
The Board confirms that the necessary actions are taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from their review.
There are no significant failings or weaknesses that have occurred throughout the year ended 31 March 2010 and up to the date of this annual financial report.
As stated above, the Board meets regularly, at least four times a year, and reviews financial reports and performance against approved forecasts, relevant stock market criteria and the Companys peer group.
In addition, the Manager and Custodian maintain their own systems of internal controls and the Board and the Audit Committee receive regular reports from the Internal Audit and Compliance Departments of the Manager.
Formal reports are also produced annually on the internal controls and procedures in place for the operation of secretarial and administrative, custodial, investment management and accounting activities.
The programme of reviews is set up by the Manager and the reports are not necessarily directed to the affairs of any one client of the Manager.
Internal Audit Function The Audit Committee has reviewed the need for the Company to establish an internal audit function, but, in view of the extent of the Managers executive responsibilities and, given that the Manager has internal audit functions, consider that such a function is not necessary.
Matters Reserved for the Board The Directors are equally responsible under United Kingdom law for the proper conduct of the Companys affairs and for promoting the success of the Company by directing and supervising its affairs within a framework of effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
In addition, the Directors are responsible for ensuring that their policies and operations are in the best interest of all of the Companys shareholders and that the best interests of creditors and suppliers to the Company are properly considered.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its consideration, which clearly define the Directors responsibilities.
This schedule was updated during the year in order to ensure best practice and compliance with the AIC Code.
The main responsibilities include: setting the Companys objectives, policies and standards: ensuring that the Companys obligations to shareholders and others are understood and complied with: approving accounting policies and dividend policy: managing the capital structure: setting long-term objectives and strategy: reviewing investment performance: assessing risk: approving loans and borrowing: and controlling risks.
The schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board will be available for inspection at the AGM and is otherwise available at the Registered Office of the Company and on the Companys website at www.
Finally, the Board ensures that shareholders are provided with sufficient information in order to understand the risk:reward balance to which they are exposed by holding their shares, through the portfolio details given in the half-yearly and annual financial reports, interim management statements, factsheets and daily NAV disclosures.
The Board as a whole undertakes the responsibilities which would otherwise be assumed by a remuneration committee, determining the Companys remuneration policy.
The Board takes into account all factors which are deemed necessary in order to ensure that members of the Board are provided with appropriate compensation and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their
