2010 RA 38-53 final:2006 as 2007 37-66 14 12 10 15:14 Page 44 Accounts Basis of Accounting and Significant Accounting Policies The Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2010 have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
IFRS comprises standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC as adopted in the European Union as at 30 September 2010.
In order to reflect the activities of an investment trust company, supplementary information which analyses the Consolidated Income Statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Consolidated Income Statement.
In analysing total income between capital and revenue returns, the Directors have followed the guidance contained in the Statement of Recommended Practice for investment companies issued by the Association of Investment Companies in January 2009 the SORP.
The recommendations of the SORP which have been followed include: Realised and unrealised profits or losses arising on the revaluation or disposal of investments classified as held at fair val ue through profit or loss should be shown in the capital column of the Income Statement.
Realised gains are taken to the realised reserves in equity and unrealised gains are transferred to the unrealised reserves in equity.
Returns on any share or debt security whether in respect of dividends, interest or otherwise should be shown in the revenue column of the income statement.
The total of the revenue column of the Income Statement is taken to the revenue reserve in equity.
The Board should determine whether the indirect costs of generating capital gains should also be shown in the capital column of the Income Statement.
If the Board decides that this should be so, the management fee should be allocated between revenue and capital in accordance with the Boards expected long term split of returns, and other expenses should be charged to capital only to the extent that a clear connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of investments can be demonstrated.
The Board has decided that the Company should continue to charge priority profit share and finance costs other than those in relation to the Zero Dividend Preference shares, as revenue items for the year ended 30 September 2010.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, capital reserve may not be distributed by way of dividend.
The Accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost basis of accounting, modified to include the revaluation of certain assets at fair value.
Application of New Standards Amendments to existing standards and IFRIC interpretations that became effective in the year, have been applied by the Company but, except for the following, none have had a significant impact on the financial statements or accounting policies.
IAS 1 revised Presentation of financial statements.
The revised standard requires the separate presentation of changes in equity attributable to the owners equity shareholders and other non-owner changes.
All non-owner changes in equity are required to be shown in a performance statement, but entities can choose whether to present one performance statement the statement of comprehensive income or two statements the income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
The Company has applied IAS 1 revised from date of adoption and has elected to present the Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income.
IFRS 7 amendment Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Introduced new disclosure requirements whereby financial instruments must be categorised under a three-level fair value hierarchy.
A reconciliation is also required for any investments categorised as Level 3.
The additional disclosures resulting from this amendment have been included on page 62.
The amendments to IFRS 7 also introduce some additional disclosures on liquidity risk which are included on page 61.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments Replaces IAS 14 and aligns segment reporting with the requirements of the US Standard.
The new standard requires a management approach under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes to the Chief operating decision maker.
The IASB and the IFRIC have issued the following standards, amendments and interpretations to be applied to financial statements with periods commencing on or after the following dates: IAS 24 revised Related Party Disclosures effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011, subject to EU endorsement Revises the definition of related parties.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments measurement: effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, subject to EU endorsement.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have any significant impact on the financial statements other than to require some additional disclosures.
Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 44 2010 RA 38-53 final:2006 as 2007 37-66 14 12 10 15:14 Page 45 Basis of Consolidation The consolidated Accounts include the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Where subsidiaries are acquired or sold during the year their results are included in the consolidated accounts from the date of acquisition and up to the date of disposal respectively.
A subsidiary is an entity where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefit from its activities.
The principal subsidiaries comprise wholly owned companies and near wholly owned investment holding limited partnerships set up by the Company through which investments are made and through which external borrowings for investment purposes are raised.
The holdings in investment holding limited partnerships and wholly owned investment holding companies are included in the consolidated financial statements, on the basis that they are considered to be special purpose entities of the Company, which have been set up for the specific purpose of holding investments.
These investment holding limited partnerships and wholly owned investment holding companies are considered to be controlled by the Company under the interpretation of SIC 12 Special Purpose Entities as the Company enjoys predominantly all the risks and rewards from their activities.
Investments The Board have appointed Electra Partners LLP Electra Partners, an independent investment manager, under a contract of full discretionary management to manage the investments of the Company.
This is effected through the Management and Investment Guideline Agreement and the relevant limited partnership agreements of the investment holding limited partnerships through which the Company makes its investments.
Under these agreements Electra Partners as Manager, has full power to exercise the voting rights attaching to any of the Companys investments without reference to the Board.
Consequently the Company does not have the power to participate in or govern the financial and operating policies of any of its investments and therefore even where the holding is greater than 50% of the equity, or between 20% and 50% of the equity, investments are not consolidated or accounted for using the equity method respectively.
Purchases and sales of listed investments and floating rate notes are recognised on the trade date where a contract exists whose terms require delivery within a time frame determined by the relevant market.
Purchases and sales of unlisted investments are recognised when the contract for acquisition or sale becomes unconditional.
Investments are designated at fair value through profit or loss described in the Accounts as investments held at fair value and are subsequently measured at reporting dates at fair value.
The fair value of direct unquoted investments is calculated in accordance with the Principles of Valuation of Investments below.
Changes in the fair value of investments are recognised in the Income Statement through the capital column.
Principles of Valuation of Investments i General In valuing investments, Electra Partners the Manager values investments at Fair Value at the reporting date, in accordance with IAS 39.
Fair Value represents the amount for which an asset could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
In estimating Fair Value, the Manager uses a methodology which is appropriate in light of the nature, facts and circumstances of the investment and its materiality in the context of the total investment portfolio.
Methodologies are applied consistently from one period to another except where a change results in a more accurate estimate of Fair Value.
ii Unlisted Investments The principal methodologies applied in valuing unlisted investments include the following: Earnings multiple Price of recent investment Net assets Discounted cash flows Industry valuation benchmarks In assessing whether a methodology is appropriate the Manager will be biased towards those methodologies that draw heavily on market based measures of risk and return, favouring those that rely on observable market data rather than assumptions.
45 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Accounts Basis of Accounting and Significant Accounting Policies 2010 RA 38-53 final:2006 as 2007 37-66 14 12 10 15:14 Page 46 Accounts Typically an Earnings multiple basis will be used.
In applying the Earnings multiple methodology, the Manager applies a market based multiple that is appropriate and reasonable to the maintainable earnings of the portfolio company.
In the majority of cases the Enterprise Value of the underlying business is derived by the use of an earnings multiple applied to the current years earnings where these can be forecast with a reasonable degree of certainty and are deemed to represent the best estimate of maintainable earnings.
Where this is not the case, historic earnings will generally be used in their place.
The Enterprise Value of the underlying business will be calculated using the earnings multiple or other appropriate basis as above : The Enterprise Value of the underlying business will then be adjusted for surplus assets or excess liabilities to arrive at an Enterprise Value for the portfolio company: and The valuation of Electras investment will be calculated from the Enterprise Value for the portfolio company after deduction of prior ranking debt and other financial instruments.
The Manager will normally derive the Earnings multiple by reference to current market based multiples reflected in the valuations of quoted comparable companies or the price at which comparable companies have changed ownership.
Differences between the comparator multiple and the unquoted company being valued are reflected by adjusting the multiple for points of difference.
The reasons why such adjustments may be necessary include the following: Size and diversity of the entities: Rate of growth of earnings: Reliance on a small number of key employees: Diversity of product ranges: Diversity and quality of customer base: Level of borrowing: Any other reason the quality of earnings may differ: Risks arising from the lack of marketability of the shares.
Where a recent investment has been made, either by Electra or by a third party in one of Electras investments, after considering the background of the underlying investment, this price will generally be used as the estimate of Fair Value, subject to consideration of changes in market conditions and company specific factors.
Other methodologies, as detailed above, may be used at any time if this is deemed to provide a more accurate assessment of the Fair Value of the investment.
The indicators that the price of recent investment may no longer be appropriate include: Significant under over achievement of budgeted earnings Concerns with respect to debt covenants or refinancing Significant movements in the market sector of the investment Regulatory changes in the industry The Companys valuation model for debt instruments is the net present value of estimated future cash flows based on a discounted cash flow model.
The discount rate used by the Company is based on the risk-free rate of the economic environment in which portfolio companies operate and is adjusted in relation to other factors such as liquidity, credit and market risk.
Similar to the earnings multiple model the cash flows used in the discounted cash flow model are based on projected cash flow or earnings of the portfolio companies.
iii Listed Investments Listed investments that are traded on active markets are stated at the market bid price on the balance sheet date without discount.
Where the market for the listed investment is not considered to be active, the investment is treated as unlisted for valuation purposes.
Markets will be considered active if transactions are occurring regularly enough to provide reliable pricing information.
Markets will be considered inactive if the market price is not current, there is little publicly available information or there are few transactions for the investment.
iv Limited Partnership Funds Limited partnership funds are those set up by a third party where the Company does not hold a majority share and are at fair value, typically using the third party managers valuation after adjustment for purchase and sales between the date of the valuation and current financial year end.
v Floating Rate Notes and Liquidity Funds Floating rate notes and liquidity funds are held at the current fair value of the note.
46 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 2010 RA 38-53 final:2006 as 2007 37-66 14 12 10 15:14 Page 47 Accrued Income Accrued income is included within investment valuations.
Derivative Financial Instruments Derivative financial instruments are used by the Group to manage the risk associated with changes in interest rates on its borrowings.
This is achieved by the use of interest rate swaps and interest rate caps.
All derivative financial instruments are held at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value on the contract date and subsequently remeasured at fair value at each reporting date.
The fair value of currency swaps and interest rate swaps is determined with reference to future cash flows and current interest and exchange rates.
All changes in the fair value of financial instruments are accounted for in the Income Statement.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash comprises cash at bank and short term deposits with an original maturity of less than three months.
Dividends Dividend distributions to shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved unconditionally by the shareholders or in the case of interim dividends when paid.
Foreign Currencies The Groups presentational currency and the Companys functional and presentational currency is pounds sterling sterling.
Transactions in currencies other than sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into the functional currencies of the Groups respective entities at rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising are recognised through the Income Statement.
At each balance sheet date assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation of the equity and reserves of subsidiaries with functional currencies other than sterling, are recognised directly in the Translation Reserve in equity.
Foreign exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the Income Statement for the period.
Revenue gains and losses Dividends receivable from equity shares are accounted on the ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, are accounted when the Group's right to receive payment is established.
Fixed returns on non-equity shares and debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield when it is probable that economic benefit will flow to the Group.
Where income accruals previously recognised, but not received, are no longer considered to be reasonably expected to be received, either through investee company restructuring or doubt over its receipt, then these amounts are reversed through expenses.
Income distributions from limited partnership funds are recognised when the right to distribution is established.
Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses are charged through the revenue column of the Income Statement except for expenses in connection with the disposal of non-current asset investments, which are deducted from the disposal proceeds of the investment.
Finance Costs Costs of borrowings are expensed as revenue items through the Income Statement as they accrue on an effective interest rate basis.
Any costs incurred which were not directly related to the borrowing facility are expensed in the revenue account.
Priority Profit Share The majority of the investments are made by the Company through investment holding limited partnerships managed by Electra Partners.
Under the terms of the relevant limited partnership agreements the general partner is entitled to appropriate, as a first charge on the net income or net capital gains of the limited partnerships, an amount equivalent to its priority profit share.
In periods in which the investment holding limited partnerships have not yet earned sufficient net income or net capital 47 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Accounts Basis of Accounting and Significant Accounting Policies 2010 RA 38-53 final:2006 as 2007 37-66 14 12 10 15:14 Page 48 Accounts gain to satisfy this priority profit share the entitlement is carried forward to the following period.
In all instances the cash amount paid to the general partner in each period is equivalent to the priority profit share.
The priority profit share is charged wholly to the revenue column of the Income Statement.
Taxation The tax effect of different items of income gain and expense loss is allocated between capital and revenue on the same basis as the particular item to which it relates, using the Companys effective rate of tax for the accounting period.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Zero Dividend Preference Shares Zero Dividend Preference Shares which exhibit the characteristics of debt are recognised as liabilities in the Balance Sheet in accordance with IAS 32.
After initial recognition, these liabilities are measured at amortised cost, which represents the initial net proceeds from the issuance after issue costs plus the accrued entitlement to the balance sheet date.
The accrued entitlement is calculated as the difference between the proceeds on the issue of these shares and the redemption amount at maturity and is charged as interest expense over the life of these shares using the effective interest method.
In accordance with the AIC SORP this interest expense is allocated to the capital column of the Income Statement.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation of uncertain timing or amount as a result of past events and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate of that obligation can be made.
The provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the amount to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Changes in provisions are recognised in the Income Statement.
The provision for the incentive schemes is based on the valuation of investments as at the balance sheet date.
The incentive scheme is charged to the capital column of the Income Statement as a direct cost.
Revenue and Capital Reserves Net Capital return is taken to the non-distributable Capital Reserve in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
The net revenue return is taken to the Revenue Reserve from which dividend distributions are made.
Operating segments The Group has adopted IFRS 8, Operating Segments for the first time, replacing the previous reporting under IAS 14, Segment Reporting.
Under IFRS 8, operating segments are considered to be the components of an entity, about which separate financial information is available, that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision-maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
The directors meet regularly to consider investment strategy and to monitor the Companys performance.
The Manager, who has been appointed to manage the Companys investments, attends all Board meetings at which investment strategy and performance are discussed.
The directors consider the geographical segments as the reporting segments.
In line with IFRS 8, disclosure by geographical segment has been provided in note 1.
Key Estimates and Assumptions Estimates and judgements used in preparing the financial information are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable.
The resulting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The key estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities relate to the valuation of unquoted investments.
These are valued by Electra Partners in accordance with IAS 39.
Judgement is required in order to determine the appropriate valuation methodology under this standard and subsequently in determining the inputs into the valuation model used.
These judgements include making assessments of the future earnings potential of portfolio companies, appropriate earnings multiples to apply, and marketability discounts.
48 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
