2010 RA 20-37 final:2006 as 2007 23-36 14 12 10 15:24 Page 35 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for the period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The financial statements are published on www.
com, which is a website maintained by the Electra Partners.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by Electra or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of Electra Partners.
The work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of Directors section of the Annual Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the Group: and the Directors Report contained in the Reports section of the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board of Directors Dr Colette Bowe, Chairman, Paternoster House 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London EC4M 8AB 29 November 2010 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 35 Reports Corporate Governance Statement of Directors Responsibilities
