2010 RA 72-84 final:Layout 1 14 12 10 15:27 Page 75 The Company is listed on the Stock Market.
As a result, the value of the shares, and any income from those shares, is not guaranteed and could go down as well as up.
You may not get back the amount you invested.
You should view your investment as long term.
As the Company invests overseas, changes in the rates of exchange may also cause the value of your investment to go down or up.
The Company can borrow money to make further investments sometimes known as gearing.
The risk is that when this money is repaid by the Company, the value of investments may not be enough to cover the borrowing and interest costs, and the Company will make a loss.
If the Companys investments fall in value, any borrowings will increase the amount of this loss.
The Company is only suitable for those investors prepared to accept a higher level of risk.
This is because it invests in private equity investments which can go down or up more than the main international markets.
Electra News via Email If you would like to receive notice of announcements or shareholder communications, please visit our website at www.
com and click on the Register for Email Alerts logo in the top right hand corner.
Registering for email alerts will not stop you receiving annual reports or any other documents you are entitled to through the post.
LPEQ Listed Private Equity Increasing awareness and understanding of listed private equity through research and information Electra is a founder member of LPEQ formerly iPEIT, a group of private equity investment trusts and similar vehicles listed on the London Stock Exchange and other major European stock markets, formed to raise awareness and increase understanding of what listed private equity is and how it enables all investors not just institutions to invest in private equity.
LPEQ provides information on private equity in general, and the listed sector in particular, undertaking and publishing research and working to improve levels of knowledge about private equity among investors and their advisers.
For further information visit www.
75 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Information Information for Shareholders LPEQ - Listed Private Equity
