Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group and Parent Company financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a directors report, report on directors remuneration and report on corporate governance that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: a the Group and Parent Company financial statements in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretation and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and of the Group taken as a whole: and b the management report contained in this report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
For and on behalf of the Board David Ritchie Chief Executive Jonathan Hill Finance Director 11 March 2011 Bovis Homes Group PLC 51
