Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting Item 1: Report and accounts The directors must present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the report of the directors and the accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The report of the directors, the accounts and the report of the Companys auditors on the accounts and on those parts of the directors remuneration report that are capable of being audited are contained within the annual report and accounts.
Item 2: Directors remuneration Under section 439 of the 2006 Act the directors are required to present the report on directors remuneration in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations, for the approval of the members.
The Report on directors remuneration can be found on pages 42 to 50 of the report and accounts.
Item 3: Full year dividend Subject to the declaration of the full year dividend at the meeting, the dividend will be paid on 27 May 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 1 April 2011.
It is intended that a scrip dividend alternative will also be offered to shareholders.
Items 4 to 9: Re-appointment of directors The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code requires FTSE 350 companies to put all directors forward for re-appointment by shareholders on an annual basis.
The purpose of this new requirement is to increase accountability to shareholders.
Accordingly, all the directors of the Company will retire at the Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for re-appointment.
The Companys Articles of Association require that any director appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting shall hold office only until the next Annual General Meeting and, accordingly, Jonathan Stanley Hill will retire and offer himself for re-appointment on this basis.
The Code contains provisions dealing with the re-appointment of non-executive directors.
In relation to the re-appointment of Alastair David Lyons, Colin Peter Holmes and John Anthony Warren as non-executive directors, the Chairman has confirmed following the formal performance evaluation conducted during 2010 that they continue to be effective in and demonstrate commitment to their roles, including commitment of time for Board and committee meetings.
Alastair Lyons brings a broad range of business knowledge and skills to the Board, which include experience in financial services, the insurance industry and private equity.
Colin Holmes has financial, commercial and operational experience over a considerable period in a retail environment, which adds a valuable dimension to the Board capabilities.
John Warren provides detailed financial and accounting expertise and has previous experience in chairing audit committees.
In respect of the re-appointment of Malcolm Robert Harris, the Senior Independent Director has confirmed following the Chairmans formal performance evaluation in 2010 that he continues to be effective in and demonstrate commitment to his role as Chairman, including commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings.
Malcolm Harris has in depth sector and industry knowledge and the Board benefits from his continued participation in industry thinking and engagement with shareholders.
The Board strongly supports and recommends the re-appointment of the directors to shareholders.
Biographical details of all the directors can be found on page 32 of this report and accounts.
Items 10 and 11: Re-appointment of auditors and auditors remuneration The auditors of a company must be re-appointed at each general meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 10 proposes the re-appointment of the Companys existing auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, for a further year.
Resolution 11 gives authority to the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Item 12: Authority to allot shares The authority given to your directors at last years Annual General Meeting under section 551 of the 2006 Act to allot shares expires on the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, this resolution seeks to grant a new authority under section 551 to authorise the directors to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 22,180,851 and also gives the Board authority to allot, in addition to these shares, further of the Companys unissued shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 44,361,702 in connection with a pre-emptive offer to existing members by way of a rights issue with exclusions to deal with fractional entitlements to shares and overseas shareholders to whom the rights issue cannot be made due to legal and practical problems.
This is in accordance with the latest institutional guidelines published by the Association of British Insurers.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this authority at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
The amount of 22,180,851 represents less than 33.3% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 16 March 2011 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
The amount of 44,361,702 represents less than 66.6% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 16 March 2011 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
The Company did not hold any shares in treasury as at 16 March 2011.
The Board has no present intention to exercise this authority other than in connection with employee share schemes, and the operation of any scrip dividend offer and any scrip dividend mandate scheme.
It wishes to obtain the necessary authority from shareholders so that allotments can be made should it be desirable and should suitable market conditions arise at short notice and without the need to convene a general meeting of the Company which would be both costly and time consuming.
If the Board takes advantage of the additional authority to issue shares or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the Company representing more than 33.3% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue or for a rights issue where the monetary proceeds exceed 33.3% of the Companys pre-issue market capitalisation, all members of the Board wishing to remain in office will stand for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting following the decision to make the relevant share issue.
86 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
