Report of the directors continued Report on corporate governance continued Board performance evaluation During 2010, the Board completed a formal internal annual performance evaluation, using a discussion and interview process designed to produce an objective assessment, which covered areas of board composition, board objectives, content and quality of discussion and focus of board meetings, risk capture, outcomes, board support and corporate governance.
The results were collated by the Chairman and discussed by the Board.
It was concluded that the Board was effective, having met all 2010 objectives, focuses on the main issues facing the business and adds value to both shareholders and management.
Outputs include the further regular development of strategy and alternatives, supported by business environment and risk management discussions, and positive focused reviews of key areas impacting the business with input from regional management.
Actions have been documented and included in the Boards schedule for 2011.
The Board intends to complete a formal external performance evaluation during 2011.
Individual director performance evaluations were undertaken by the Chairman using a discussion and interview process which covered each directors commitment, contribution, understanding of the Company, decision making, and interpersonal skills, with the link being made to training and development.
All directors were considered to be continuing to contribute effectively and to demonstrate the necessary commitment and time to their respective roles.
The Senior Independent Director, with support from the other non-executive directors and following discussion with the executive directors, conducted a performance evaluation of the Chairman during 2010 which confirmed that the Chairman provided strong leadership to the Board and created an appropriate environment for Board debate with effective management of the Boards agenda.
It was also confirmed that the Board continued to benefit from having retained the Chairmans in depth knowledge of the sector gained during his executive career with the Company, his continued participation in industry thinking, and his interaction with principal shareholders on matters of corporate governance.
Board committees The Board is assisted by a Remuneration Committee, a Nomination Committee, and an Audit Committee.
During 2010, membership of the three Committees comprised four independent directors, until the retirement of Lesley MacDonagh from the Board on 6 May 2010 and since that date has comprised three independent directors plus the Chairman and Chief Executive in the case of the Nomination Committee.
The Audit Committee is chaired by John Warren and the Remuneration Committee is chaired by Colin Holmes.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Malcolm Harris.
Each committee has written terms of reference from the Board.
The duties of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 42 to 50: the activities of the Audit Committee are set out in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 40 and 41: and the activities of the Nomination Committee are set out in the Report of the Nomination Committee on page 41.
The Board completed a performance evaluation of its committees during 2010, and concluded that the committees were working and contributing effectively and continued to achieve their respective remits.
Relations with shareholders All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting, which the full Board including all committee chairmen attend, and they are encouraged to exercise their right to vote and appoint proxies, including by way of an electronic voting facility.
The Notice of meeting is provided to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting, separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue and proxy voting is disclosed, including votes withheld.
Shareholders are entitled to participate with questions relevant to the business of the meeting and have the opportunity to talk informally with the directors and senior management following the meeting.
The Board maintains regular contact and dialogue with shareholders through a series of presentations and meetings conducted by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, particularly in the period post announcement of final and half-yearly results.
Feedback received during the year under review was positive and helpful and the presentations made to financial analysts in respect of half-yearly and final results are made available on the Groups website www.
The Annual Report and Accounts, Preliminary Results, Half-yearly financial report, AGM voting, Corporate Social Responsibility report and other information are also available on the website.
The Chairman and the Deputy Chairman also the Senior Independent Director are accessible to shareholders and maintain sufficient contact with major shareholders to understand their concerns.
The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and the other non-executive directors attended an investor presentation and analysts briefing held in November 2010 and major shareholders attending had the opportunity to put their views and hold discussions with them.
The Chairman has recently written to major shareholders advising of his availability should they wish to meet or hold discussions with him.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and has during the year reviewed the effectiveness thereof.
It is able to report that the Company has complied with provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code throughout 2010 in accordance with the Revised Turnbull Guidance.
A key part of the system of internal control is the maintenance of a risk analysis.
The risk analysis was kept under review during 2010 and in this way the Board is able to ensure that it properly identifies and grades the risks specific to the activities and operating environment of the business and reviews the response to operational, financial, compliance and other risks and reconsiders its policies of risk tolerance.
In setting these policies the Board aims to ensure that the Company is neither prevented from taking opportunities nor exposed to unreasonable risk.
The system of internal control is designed to manage risk rather than eliminate it and consequently it can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the system of internal control and reports to the Board thereon.
It receives reports from the internal and external auditors and management which assess the efficacy of internal control and make recommendations for any improvements.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of committee meetings to the Board and provides minutes of the meetings.
The Group has maintained throughout the year and up to the date of approval of these Annual Report and Accounts a control environment, with policies, procedures, processes and codes of conduct which are designed to identify, evaluate, manage and mitigate risk over the range of business activities and improve business efficiency.
This control environment is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Revised Turnbull Guidance.
As new procedures and working practices are adopted, risk factors are considered and internal controls embedded into the systems wherever possible.
