Notes to the financial statements continued Where the derivative instrument, typically an interest rate swap, is deemed an effective hedge over the exposure being hedged, the derivative instrument is treated as a cash flow hedge and hedge accounting applied.
Under a cash flow hedge, gains and losses on the effective portion of the change in the fair value of the derivative instrument are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting and any ineffectiveness in the hedge relationship are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in reserves is retained in reserves until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in reserves is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Certain property that had been revalued to fair value on or prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRS, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, this being the revalued amount at the date of that revaluation less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses.
Regular reviews of the carrying values of property are completed to assess any impairment in value.
When impairment is identified, the assets recoverable amount is assessed and any shortfall is written off through the income statement.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost less residual value which is reassessed annually of assets over their estimated useful lives.
Depreciation is charged on property in respect of the value of the building.
The basis of depreciation for each class of asset is as follows: Buildings straight line over 50 years Plant and machinery 33.3% reducing balance Computer equipment straight line over 3 years Office equipment 25% reducing balance The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Fixed asset investments Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less impairment.
Following the issue of IFRIC11 in 2007, the Parent Company accounts for the share-based payments granted to subsidiary employees as an increase in the cost of its investment in subsidiaries.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Receivables on extended terms granted as part of a sales transaction are secured by way of a legal charge on the relevant property, categorised as an available for sale financial asset and are stated at fair value as described in note 15.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity in retained earnings, with the exceptions of impairment losses, the impact of changes in future cash flows and interest calculated using the effective interest rate method, which are recognised directly in the income statement.
Where the investment is disposed of, or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the income statement for the period.
Given its materiality, this item is being disclosed separately on the face of the balance sheet.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads, not including any general administrative overheads, that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated net selling price less estimated total costs of completion of the finished goods.
Land held for development, including land in the course of development until legal completion of the sale of the asset, is initially recorded at cost.
Where, through deferred purchase credit terms, cost differs from the nominal amount which will actually be paid in settling the deferred purchase terms liability, an adjustment is made to the cost of the land, the difference being charged as a finance cost.
Options purchased in respect of land are capitalised initially at cost.
Regular reviews are completed for impairment in the value of these options, and provisions made accordingly to reflect loss of value.
The impairment reviews consider the period elapsed since the date of purchase of the option given that the option contract has not been exercised at the review date.
Further, the impairment reviews consider the remaining life of the option, taking account of any concerns over whether the remaining time available will allow successful exercise of the option.
The carrying cost of the option at the date of exercise is included within the cost of land purchased as a result of the option exercise.
Investments in land without the benefit of planning consent, either through purchase of freehold land or non refundable deposits paid on land purchase contracts subject to residential planning consent, are capitalised initially at cost.
Regular reviews are completed for impairment in the value of these investments, and provision made to reflect any irrecoverable element.
The impairment reviews consider the existing use value of the land and assesses the likelihood of achieving residential planning consent and the value thereof.
Ground rents are held at an estimate of cost based on a multiple of ground rent income, with a corresponding credit created against cost of sales, in the year in which the ground rent first becomes payable by the leasehold purchaser.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
