Report of the directors continued Report on corporate governance continued The principal elements of the control environment are as follows: regular main Board meetings: regular Audit Committee meetings: regular Group Executive Committee meetings: an established management structure of operating regions with short lines of communication to the executive directors: regular regional board meetings, with comprehensive agendas dealing with all aspects of the business: defined operating controls and procedures with authorisation limits at appropriate levels across the Group: an internal audit department reporting regularly on compliance with controls, procedures and authority limits: a regular self certification process in respect of internal control through the management structure: a comprehensive financial reporting system with actual performance compared with budgets and forecasts on a regular basis, each region reporting through its regional board: and a regular comparison of the Groups performance against industry statistics and competitors.
There are a number of elements of the Groups internal control and risk management systems that are specifically related to the Groups financial reporting process.
Firstly, there is a well understood management structure which allows for clear accountability and an appropriately granular level of financial control.
This structure is underpinned by documented authority levels for business events laid out in the Group management paper.
The process of financial reporting is further supported by process documents for both internal management reporting and external Group reporting which stipulates amongst other things reporting timetables and contents of key management reports.
The Group maintains computer systems that record financial transactions and whose effectiveness is reviewed by the Groups Internal Audit function on a regular basis.
Any findings arising from these exercises are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board.
Control over cash expenditure which lies at the heart of any financial reporting process is key.
The Group maintains tight control in this area through a centralised Group payment function, regularly maintained authorisation documents and segregation of authorisation accountability.
The Group maintains a regular weekly and monthly financial reporting cycle, allowing management to assess the financial progress of the Group, and this is further supported by a formal budget and forecast process which ensures that there is a robust and relatively recent financial forecast in place at all times against which to assess performance.
Together with this financial reporting, the Group requires its regional management teams to report key business issues as part of a monthly regional reporting pack on a standardised basis.
Finally, there is a process of accounts preparation which ensures that there is an audit trail between the output from the Groups financial reporting system and the Groups financial statements as they are prepared for reporting.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
These enquiries consist of the production and review of detailed financial forecasts covering the period January 2011 - June 2012.
These forecasts take into account current market trends with reasonable judgements and estimates applied to arrive at future cash flow estimates.
As part of this review, the Group has analysed its forecast covenant compliance over this period linked to its banking facility, arriving at an assessment of the headroom evident between the forecast covenant test outcomes and the outcomes necessary to achieve covenant compliance.
The Group entered into a new banking facility on 27 January 2010.
This facility provides a committed revolving credit facility with a limit of 150 million maturing in September 2013.
As at 31 December, the Group had no drawings under its revolving credit facility, and held net cash of 52 million.
The Group regards the combination of existing cash in hand and this new facility as adequate in terms of flexibility and liquidity for its needs.
More details on the Groups approach to financial risk management more widely are laid out in note 23.
For these reasons, the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its accounts.
By Order of the Board M T D Palmer Company Secretary 11 March 2011 Bovis Homes Group PLC Registered number 306718 38 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
