Notes to the financial statements continued Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of direct issue costs, and subsequently at amortised cost.
Finance charges are accounted for on an accrual basis to the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Joint ventures Entities which are jointly controlled with another party or parties joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The results attributable to the Groups holding in joint ventures are shown separately in the consolidated income statement.
The amount included in the consolidated balance sheet is the Groups share of the net assets of the joint ventures plus net loans receivable.
Government grants Government grants are recognised in the income statement so as to match with the related costs that they are intended to compensate.
Government grants are included within deferred income.
The benefit on loans with an interest rate below market is calculated as the difference between interest at a market rate and the below market interest.
The benefit is treated as a Government grant.
The benefit on loans with an interest rate below market is calculated as the difference between interest at a market rate and the below market interest, and the benefit is treated as a Government grant.
Kickstart During the year, the Group has been granted assistance for the development of a number of sites under the Homes and Communities Agency HCA Kickstart scheme.
Where receipts under the Kickstart scheme relate to grants they are accounted for in accordance with the policy for government grants stated above.
In addition the Group has received cash upon specific sites under the Kickstart equity scheme which may be repayable in future periods, as the sites to which it relates are developed, along with the share of the profits or losses attributable to the HCA arising from the sites.
This grant element is included within deferred income to the extent that it is currently estimated that future economic benefit will be derived and will be released to the income statement in line with sales from the relevant site.
If part or all the equity schemes are expected to be repaid these are shown in other creditors.
Trade payables Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Trade payables on extended terms, particularly in respect of land, are recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of the asset to which they relate.
The discount to nominal value which will be paid in settling the deferred purchase terms liability is recognised over the period of the credit term and charged to finance costs using the effective interest rate method.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Own shares held by ESOP trust Transactions of the Group-sponsored ESOP trust are included in the Group financial statements.
In particular, the trusts purchases of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity through an own shares held reserve.
Employee benefits The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits under IAS 19 Revised : Employee benefits.
In respect of defined benefit schemes, the net obligation is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods, such benefits measured at discounted present value, less the fair value of the scheme assets.
The discount rate used to discount the benefits accrued is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit method.
The operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised separately in the income statement: service costs are spread systematically over the lives of employees and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
All actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Share-based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS2: Share-based payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS1, IFRS2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees in the form of share options over shares in the Parent Company.
Equitysettled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant calculated using an independent option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The fair value is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest, with a corresponding credit to equity except when the share-based payment is cancelled where the charge will be accelerated.
Segment reporting As the Groups main operation is that of a housebuilder and it operates entirely within the United Kingdom, there are no separate segments, either business or geographic, to disclose, having taken into account the aggregation testing provisions of IFRS8.
60 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
