Report of the directors continued Significant agreements The Group is a party to a syndicated facility agreement with its relationship banking group relating to the provision of a 150 million revolving loan facility.
In the event of a change of control, provisions in the agreement would allow lenders to withdraw the facility.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had no borrowing positions under this arrangement.
All of the Groups share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Under these provisions, a change of control would be a vesting event, allowing exercise of outstanding options and awards, subject to satisfaction of performance conditions as required.
There are a number of commercial contracts that could alter in the event of a change of control.
None is considered to be material in terms of their potential impact on the Group in this event.
Annual General Meeting Notice of the 2011 Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday 11 May 2011 is set out on pages 83 to 85.
Members wishing to vote should return forms of proxy to the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
Shareholders with internet access may register their voting instructions via the internet by going to www.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the directors will stand for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
As in prior years, it is proposed that a general meeting that is not an Annual General Meeting can be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
This resolution is required as a result of the implementation of the Shareholder Rights Directive, which increased the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
Ability to call a general meeting on 14 days notice would only be utilised in limited circumstances and where it was to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
At a meeting on 11 March 2011, the Board resolved that a resolution be submitted to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting proposing the renewal of the authority to enable the Company to purchase up to 10% of its own shares.
At the present time, the directors have no wish to exercise the authority to purchase any of the shares of the Company, but consider that it is appropriate to have the flexibility to do so.
Any shares so purchased would be cancelled.
The directors believe that all the resolutions proposed to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and, accordingly, unanimously recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of the resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their own shares in the Company.
Auditors Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, resolutions concerning their re-appointment and remuneration will be placed before the Annual General Meeting.
Report on corporate governance The Company continues its commitment to high standards of corporate governance and recognises that appropriate boardroom behaviours are an essential component of best practice.
The Board, acknowledging its responsibility to shareholders in this area, has put in place an appropriate framework as described in the corporate governance policy guidelines on page 39 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Company welcomes the new UK Corporate Governance Code, which applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010, and will report on its compliance with the new Code in the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts.
This report sets out the Companys compliance with the 2008 Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council available at www.
uk and how its corporate governance framework is applied.
The Combined Code is supplemented by a publication entitled Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Revised Turnbull Guidance to enable listed companies to comply with Listing Rule 9.8.
The Company has throughout 2010 applied the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code and complied therewith, as detailed below.
Information on share capital is provided on page 33.
The Board The Board comprises Malcolm Harris, non-executive Chairman: Alastair Lyons, non-executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director: two executive directors, David Ritchie, Chief Executive, and Jonathan Hill, Group Finance Director: and two further independent non-executive directors, John Warren and Colin Holmes.
Lesley MacDonagh retired at the Annual General Meeting held on 6 May 2010, having served since 2003, and Neil Cooper left the Company on the same date.
Jonathan Hill was appointed on 23 August 2010 following a recommendation from the Nomination Committee and an evaluation of the knowledge, skills and experience that the appointment would bring to the Company and the Board.
A comprehensive, tailored and formal induction to the Company was provided shortly after appointment and major shareholders had the opportunity to meet the newly appointed Group Finance Director.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive, set out in writing and agreed by the Board and the responsibilities of the non-executive Deputy Chairman have been treated similarly.
The Chairman provides leadership to and runs the Board, takes a leading role in determining its composition and structure, and sets its agenda.
He ensures that it receives accurate, timely and clear information, facilitates the contribution of the non-executive directors and ensures constructive relations on the Board.
The Chairman also ensures that effective communications are maintained with shareholders.
