Notice of meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to any aspect of the proposals referred to in this document or as to the action you should take, you should seek your own advice from a stockbroker, solicitor, accountant, or other professional adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares, please pass this document together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Notice of meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 2011 Annual General Meeting of Bovis Homes Group PLC will be held at The Spa Hotel, Mount Ephraim, Royal Tunbridge Wells, Kent TN4 8XJ on Wednesday 11 May 2011 at 12.00pm for the following purposes: Ordinary resolutions 1 To receive the audited accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2010 and the reports of the directors and auditors.
2 To approve the report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2010.
3 To declare the full year dividend recommended by the directors.
4 To re-appoint Malcolm Robert Harris as a director of the Company.
5 To re-appoint Alastair David Lyons as a director of the Company.
6 To re-appoint Colin Peter Holmes as a director of the Company.
7 To re-appoint John Anthony Warren as a director of the Company.
8 To re-appoint David James Ritchie as a director of the Company.
9 To re-appoint Jonathan Stanley Hill as a director of the Company, appointed since the last Annual General Meeting.
10 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company.
11 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
12 That the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act : A up to an aggregate nominal amount of 22,180,851: and B comprising equity securities as defined in the 2006 Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 44,361,702 including within such limit any shares issued or rights granted under paragraph A above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue to holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings and so that the directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter, such authorities to apply unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in a general meeting until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2012 or fifteen months from the date of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but in each case so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements during the relevant period which would, or might, require shares to be allotted, or rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares to be granted, after the authority ends and the directors may allot shares and grant rights under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not ended.
Special resolutions 13 That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
14 That if resolution 12 is passed, and in place of all existing powers, the directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 570 of the 2006 Act to allot equity securities as defined in the 2006 Act for cash, under the authority given by that resolution, as if section 561 1 of the 2006 Act did not apply to the allotment, such power: a to expire unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in a general meeting at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2012 or fifteen months from the date of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but during this period the directors may make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after the power ends and the directors may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not ended: b to be limited to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities but in the case of the authority granted under resolution 12 B by way of a rights issue only to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings and so that the directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and c to be limited, in the case of the authority granted under resolution 12 A, to the allotment of equity securities for cash otherwise than pursuant to paragraph b up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,330,458.
