Notes to the financial statements continued 4.
Accounting policies Business combinations The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings by the Group.
The cost of or consideration for an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given and liabilities taken on or assumed in return for the acquisition.
On acquisition, identifiable assets and liabilities are measured initially at fair value, with any excess of consideration being recognised as goodwill.
Accounting policies of subsidiary undertakings have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with those adopted by the Group.
Revenue Revenue is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the purchaser.
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts.
Revenue in respect of the sale of residential properties and land is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable on legal completion of the sale transaction.
Revenue does not include the value of the onward legal completion of properties accepted in part exchange against a new property.
The net gain or loss arising from the legal completion of these part exchange properties is recognised in cost of sales.
Rental income is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income.
Operating leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised as an integral part of the total lease expenditure.
Net financing costs Net finance costs comprise: interest payable on borrowings, including any premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, accounted for on an accrual basis to the income statement using the effective interest method: interest receivable on funds invested accounted for on an accrual basis to the income statement using the effective interest method: imputed interest on available-for-sale financial assets, fair valued interest free loans and on deferred terms land payables: pension finance costs or benefits being the net of interest costs on liabilities and expected return on assets linked to the Defined Benefit Scheme: and gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
Finance costs are included in the measurement of borrowings at their amortised cost to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
The Group is required to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction and production of a qualifying asset, as part of the costs of that asset.
Inventories which are produced in large quantities on a repetitive basis over a short period of time are not qualifying assets.
The Group does not generally produce qualifying assets.
Taxation Income tax comprises the sum of the tax currently payable or receivable and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
The tax currently payable or receivable is based on taxable profit or loss for the year and any adjustment to tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years.
Taxable profit or loss differs from net profit or loss as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability or asset for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from non-tax deductible goodwill, from the initial recognition of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit, and from differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to reserves, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in reserves.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in interest rates.
The Group uses interest rate swap contracts where deemed appropriate to hedge these exposures.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
58 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
