Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued Item 13: Notice of general meetings This resolution is required as a result of the implementation in August 2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive.
The regulation implementing this Directive increased the notice period for general meetings under the 2006 Act to 21 days.
The Company will be able to continue to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice as long as shareholders have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
It is confirmed that ability to call a general meeting on 14 days notice would only be utilised in limited circumstances and where the shorter notice period was to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Item 14: Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 14 seeks authority for the directors to issue equity securities as defined in the 2006 Act in the Company for cash as if the pre-emption provisions of section 561 of the 2006 Act did not apply.
Other than in connection with a rights issue or any other pre-emptive offers concerning equity securities, the authority contained in this resolution will be limited to the issue of shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 3,330,458 which represents approximately 5% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 16 March 2011 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
In accordance with the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles, the directors confirm their intention that no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares will be issued for cash on a non pre-emptive basis during any rolling three-year period.
This resolution seeks a disapplication of the pre-emption rights on a rights issue so as to allow the directors to make exclusions or such other arrangements as may be appropriate to resolve legal or practical problems which, for example, might arise with overseas members.
There are presently no plans to allot ordinary shares wholly for cash other than in connection with employee share schemes.
Shares allotted under an employee share scheme are not subject to statutory pre-emption rights.
The authority sought by resolution 14 will last until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Item 15: Authority to purchase own shares This resolution renews the authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting to enable the Company to make market purchases of up to 13,321,832 of its own shares, representing approximately 10% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 16 March 2011 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
Before exercising such authority, the directors would ensure that the Company was complying with the current relevant UK Listing Authority and ABI guidelines.
No purchases would be made unless the directors believe that the effect would be to increase the earnings per share of the remaining shareholders and the directors consider the purchases to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
Any shares so purchased would be cancelled.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares but would like to have the flexibility of considering such purchases in the future.
Any purchases of ordinary shares would be by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
The maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share shall be the higher of: a an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Company agrees to buy the ordinary shares: and b an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System SETS.
The minimum price exclusive of expenses would be 50 pence, being the nominal value of each ordinary share.
The authority will only be valid until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting in 2012.
As at 16 March 2011 there were options over 1,283,705 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company which represent 0.96% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at that date.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full, these options would represent 1.07% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to the meeting promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
Your Board will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommends that you do so as well.
