Notes to the financial statements Bovis Homes Group PLC the Company is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2010 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in associates.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 11 March 2011.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of the Company and the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRS and its interpretations as adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
On publishing the Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments and available for sale assets.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Judgements made by management in the application of adopted IFRSs that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 28.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all relevant periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently to the Company and the Group where relevant.
Impact of standards and interpretations effective for the first time The following new standards, amendments to standards or interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the Companys year ended 31 December 2010.
They have had no material impact on the Groups financial statements.
This standard is amended such that gains or losses on a hedged instrument should be reclassified from equity to profit or loss during the period that the hedged forecast cash flows affect profit or loss.
As the Groups current hedged instruments are currently ineffective, movements are currently taken through the income statement so this has had no practical impact.
The definition of vesting conditions in IFRS 2 has been amended to clarify that vesting conditions are limited to service conditions and performance conditions.
Conditions other than service or performance conditions are considered non-vesting conditions.
The amendment also specifies that all cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment, i. e. acceleration of the charge, rather than be treated as a reversal.
The Board has concluded that there is no significant effect on the Groups financial statements.
IFRIC15 Agreements for the construction of real estate.
IFRIC15 provides guidance on whether the construction of real estate should be accounted for under IAS11 or IAS18.
The Group already accounts for the construction of real estate in accordance with IFRIC15 and accordingly this interpretation has had no impact upon the Group.
The other standards and interpretations that are applicable for the first time in the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010, have no effect on these financial statements.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
Joint ventures are those entities in which the Group has joint control over the financial and operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of joint ventures on an equity accounted basis, from the date that joint control commenced until joint control ceases.
