Notes to the financial statements continued Bank and other loans Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest flows.
Interest free loans are fair valued using an effective interest rate method.
See note 18 for further details.
Interest rate swaps At each period end, an external valuation of the fair value of each interest rate swap is obtained from the relevant swap providers.
Trade and other receivables payables Other than land creditors, other financial liabilities and available for sale financial assets, the nominal value of trade receivables and payables is deemed to reflect the fair value.
This is due to the fact that transactions which give rise to these trade receivables and payables arise in the normal course of trade with industry standard payment terms.
Interest rates used for determining fair value The Group uses an instrument-specific market-assessed interest rate to determine the fair value of financial instruments.
Operating leases Leases as lessee Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: 2010 2009 Group 000 000 Less than one year 17 148 Between one and five years 4 287 More than five years - - Operating leases 21 435 With regard to the operating leases held by the Group as lessor, the Group recognised 52,000 of rental income in the income statement in 2010 2009: 52,000.
Capital commitments The Group has made 53,000 of plant and equipment expenditure commitments 2009: nil.
Contingencies The Group has contingent liabilities in respect of bonds and other agreements entered into in the normal course of business and the Company has guaranteed the performance of certain of these agreements entered into by its subsidiary companies.
The Company had guaranteed the repayment of bank loans made to one of its subsidiaries under a syndicated loan facility agreement.
There were no amounts outstanding under this agreement at 31 December 2010 31 December 2009: nil.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Accounting estimates and judgements Management discussed with the Audit Committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates and the application of these policies and estimates.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty Land held for development and housing work in progress The Group holds inventories which are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
To assess the net realisable value of land held for development and housing work in progress, the Group completes a financial appraisal of the likely revenue which will be generated when these inventories are combined as residential properties for sale and sold.
Where the financial appraisal demonstrates that the revenue will exceed the costs of the inventories and other associated costs of constructing the residential properties, the inventories are stated at cost.
Where the assessed revenue is lower, the extent to which there is a shortfall is written off through the income statement leaving the inventories stated at a recoverable value.
To the extent that the revenues which can be generated change, or the final cost to complete the site varies from estimates, the net realisable value of the inventories may be different.
A review taking into account estimated achievable net revenues, actual inventory and costs to complete as at 11 March 2011 has been carried out, which has identified no net movement in the carrying value of the provision.
These estimates were made by local management having regard to actual selling prices, together with competitor and marketplace evidence, and were further reviewed by Group management.
Should there be a future significant decline in UK house pricing, then further write-downs of land and work in progress may be necessary.
Further details on the carrying value of inventory is laid out in note 14.
Part exchange properties The carrying values of part exchange properties are assessed based on external valuations completed on the properties.
These valuations are based on the prevailing market conditions in the second hand housing market and to the extent that housing market pricing levels change, the achievable values of the part exchange properties may vary.
Part exchange property values at the end of the financial year were based on up to date valuations and were based on realistic market expectations.
80 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
