Notes to the financial statements continued Pension assumptions The Group has utilised a range of assumptions including a rate of return on assets, a discount rate and mortality assumptions having been advised by its actuary.
To the extent that such assumed rates are different from what actually transpires, the pension liability of the Group would change.
A 5% movement up or down in the value of the gross scheme liability would impact the Groups pension deficit by 4.0 million.
A 5% movement up or down in the value of the gross scheme assets would impact the Groups pension deficit by 3.7 million.
Available for sale financial assets The estimation of the fair value of available for sale financial assets requires judgement and estimation as to the quantum, timing and value of repayment of the Groups receivable, as well as to the choice of instrument-specific market-assessed interest rate used to determine a discount rate.
Note 23 contains a sensitivity analysis showing the impact of a change in the major judgement factor applied in the valuation of these instruments.
Related party transactions Transactions between fellow subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation, as have transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries during this period.
Transactions between the Group, Company and key management personnel in the year ending 31 December 2010 were limited to those relating to remuneration, which are disclosed in the Report on directors remuneration which can be found on pages 42 to 50.
Malcolm Harris, a Group Director, is a non-executive Director of the Home Builders Federation HBF and was a non-executive Director of the National House Building Council NHBC until 26 June 2010.
The Group trades in the normal course of business, on an arms-length basis, with the NHBC for provision of a number of building-related services, most materially for provision of warranties on new homes sold and for performance bonding on infrastructure obligations, The Group pays subscription fees and fees for research as required to the HBF.
Total net payments were as follows: 2010 2009 000 000 NHBC 1,454 724 HBF 124 78 There have been no related party transactions in the current financial year which have materially affected the financial performance or position of the Group, and which have not been disclosed.
Transactions with Joint Venture In the period the Group entered into the following transactions with Bovis Peer LLP.
During the financial year, inventory was transferred to Bovis Peer LLP for a cash consideration of 25,859,250.
In addition, a loan of 1,450,355 was provided to Bovis Peer LLP on 25 March 2010 at an annual interest rate of LIBOR plus 2.4%.
Bovis Homes Limited are contracted to provide Property and Letting Management services to the Partnership.
Fees charged in the period ended 31 December 2010 in respect of these services totalled 99,964 inclusive of VAT.
