15841 F&C Annual Report MIDDLE:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:37 Page 46 46 Financial Statements F&C Asset Management Accounting Policies b The amendments to the following standards and new Basis of preparation and statement of compliance interpretations below did not have any impact on the These are the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C Asset accounting policies, financial position or performance Management plc and its subsidiaries the Group which have been of the Group: prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: Amendments relating to group International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the cash-settled share-based payment transactions: European Union adopted IFRS, and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under adopted IFRS.
IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued These Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in millions Operations Amendments April 2009 : of pounds Sterling, rounded to one decimal point, except where IFRS 8 Operating Segments Amendments April 2009 : otherwise indicated.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Amendments April 2009 : Going concern IAS 7 Statements of Cash Flows Amendments April 2009 : The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out IAS17 Leases Amendments April 2009 : in the Business Review on pages 2 to 20.
The financial position of IAS36 Impairment of Assets Amendments April 2009 : and the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are also described in IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement the Business Review.
In addition, note 36 to the Financial Amendments March 2009.
Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: Parent Company Financial Statements details of its financial instruments and its exposure to credit risk and The parent Company has continued to present individual Financial liquidity risk.
Statements prepared on a UK GAAP basis as permitted by section 395 1 of the Companies Act 2006, adopting the exemption of The Group has considerable financial resources together with longterm contracts with a number of clients across different geographic omitting the Profit and Loss Account and related notes conferred by section 408 of that Act.
The Company Financial Statements, areas and industries.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a together with their respective accounting policies and notes, are reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to presented on pages 128 to 142. continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in Accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements preparing these Financial Statements.
The preparation of the Financial Statements necessitates the use of New or revised standards estimates, assumptions and judgements.
These estimates, assumptions and judgements affect the reported amounts of assets, The Group has adopted the following new or revised standards and liabilities, contingent assets and contingent liabilities at the reporting interpretations as of 1 January 2010: date as well as the reported income and expenses for the year.
While estimates are based on managements best knowledge and a IFRS3 Revised : Business Combinations and IAS 27: judgement using information and financial data available to them, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Revised the actual outcome may differ from these estimates.
This has resulted in a revision to the accounting policy on The key sources of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements in business combinations.
The most significant changes to the applying accounting policies are disclosed, where appropriate, in the existing policy are: following notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements: Acquisition costs are now expensed in the Income a Impairment testing of intangible assets Statement whereas previously they were included in the The projected revenue growth, projected operating cost growth cost of the acquisition: and discount rates applied to cash flow projections, as Changes to contingent consideration classified as equity disclosed in note 13. resulting from events after the date of acquisition are recognised directly in equity whereas previously there was b Pension assumptions an adjustment to goodwill: and The mortality assumptions, expected rates of return, discount rates, rates of salary increases and rate of inflation increases, as Other changes to contingent consideration after the date of disclosed in note 25. acquisition are recognised in profit or loss whereas previously there was an adjustment to goodwill.
c Minority interest put options These changes are not retrospective and do not affect business The fair value of the F&C REIT minority interest put options is combinations prior to 1 January 2010. subject to uncertainties in respect of future performance and other factors impacting the valuation of the F&C REIT Group.
Details of these put options are disclosed in note 28.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report MIDDLE:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:37 Page 47 F&C Asset Management Accounting Policies Financial Statements 47 arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing d Provisions the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Onerous contract provisions for premises are subject to uncertainties over time, including market rent reviews and Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net break-options within the lease arrangements.
The F&C Partners assets in subsidiaries not held by the Group and are presented litigation dispute is subject to determination in the High Court.
separately in the Consolidated Income Statement Income While there are a number of possible outcomes to this trial, the Statement and within equity in the Consolidated Statement of Directors continue to recognise a provision in respect of the Financial Position Statement of Financial Position, separately totality of matters in dispute.
Details of provisions are disclosed from parent shareholders equity.
within note 24. ii Business combinations e Share-based payments IFRS 3 Revised relating to Business Combinations from 1 January 2010 The share-based payment expense in respect of the TRC A business combination is the bringing together of separate Commutation arrangements, as detailed in note 15 a and 26 g, entities or businesses into one reporting entity.
The result is that is dependent upon whether the underlying put and call options one entity, the acquirer, obtains control of one or more entities or are exercised and, if exercised, the expense will vary according businesses.
The acquisition date is the date on which the to a number of variables, including the level of earnings of the acquirer obtains control of the acquiree.
respective Investment Teams and the latest audited financial results of the F&C Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or The final F&C REIT variable minority interest share-based assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets and payment expense will depend on the extent of the F&C REIT liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in a financial results over the remainder of the performance periods business combination are measured initially at their fair values at and, if the performance criteria are achieved, the value of F&C the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition REIT business at the vesting date.
Details are given in note 26 c. over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets f Deferred tax assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Acquisition-related expenses are expensed in the Income Statement.
The quantum of deferred tax assets recognised, as detailed in note 17, is based upon assumptions as to the future profitability IFRS 3 relating to Business Combinations prior to 2010 of the underlying companies to which they relate.
A business combination is the bringing together of separate entities or businesses into one reporting entity.
The result is that g TRC contingent consideration one entity, the acquirer, obtains control of one or more entities or The conditional consideration payable in respect of the businesses.
acquisition of TRC is an estimate but is dependent upon the The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the level of future earnings of the TRC Group at two specific dates, assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or as detailed in note 15 a. assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly Summary of significant accounting policies attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in a business The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently combination are measured initially at their fair values at the throughout the Group for the purposes of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2010 and acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets 31 December 2009, aside from any new or revised standards acquired is recorded as goodwill.
applicable for the first time in the current year.
b Foreign currencies a Consolidation The Groups presentational currency is Sterling.
Each entity in i Subsidiaries the Group determines its own functional currency and items Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power, included in the financial statements of each entity are measured directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating in that functional currency.
policies so as to obtain benefits from their activities.
Subsidiaries follow accounting policies consistent with those of the Group, i Foreign currency transactions unless there is a requirement for the subsidiary to follow a Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the different accounting treatment, in which case, consolidation functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the adjustments are made to align the treatment of such transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in subsidiaries within the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated at the subsidiaries all have coterminous reporting periods, with three exchange rate ruling at the reporting date, and any exchange exceptions.
differences arising are taken to the Income Statement.
The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the assets, Non-monetary assets and liabilities, other than intangible assets liabilities, results and cash flows of the Company and its arising on the acquisition of foreign operations measured at subsidiaries.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during historical cost in a foreign currency, are translated using the the period are included in the consolidated results from the date exchange rate at the date of transaction and are not of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses stated at fair value in a foreign currency are translated at the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report MIDDLE:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:37 Page 48 48 Financial Statements Accounting Policies F&C Asset Management exchange rate at the date the fair value was determined.
When Accounting policy s Provisions discusses the recognition of fair value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected in the provisions on onerous property leases when the leased space Income Statement, the corresponding exchange movements has ceased to be occupied by the Group.
are also recognised in the Income Statement.
Similarly, when fair e Fee and commission expenses value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected directly in equity, the corresponding exchange movements except any Fee and commission expenses comprise two main elements relating to available for sale monetary assets are also costs associated with gaining new OEIC asset management recognised directly in equity.
contracts and subsequent commission paid to agents.
The costs associated with gaining OEIC contracts are deferred and ii Foreign operations amortised over the estimated term of the contracts in line with The functional currency of foreign operations is predominantly the treatment of the associated initial OEIC fees received, while the Euro.
the subsequent renewal commission paid to agents is expensed The assets and liabilities of, or relating to, foreign operations are as the services are provided.
translated into Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the reporting date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign f Exceptional income and costs operations are translated to Sterling at foreign exchange rates Where the Group incurs significant non-recurring expenditure or approximating to the rates ruling at the dates of the earns significant non-recurring income in respect of items that transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation arise outwith the Groups normal business activities and which of foreign operations into Sterling, including related intangible are sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure, then assets, are recognised directly in the Groups Foreign Currency such items are disclosed in the Income Statement as Translation Reserve FCTR, which is a separate component of exceptional items, either separately or collectively, depending on equity, and reported in the Statement of Comprehensive their nature.
These exchange differences are recognised as income or expenses in the period in which the foreign operations are g Finance revenue disposed of.
Finance revenue comprises interest, dividends, expected return on pension assets and fair value adjustments through the Income c Revenue recognition Statement in respect of shareholder investments.
Dividend Management fees, investment advisory fees and other revenue income is recognised when the right to receive payment is generated from the Groups asset management activities are established.
Interest income is recognised in the Income recognised in the Income Statement over the period for which Statement on an effective interest rate basis as it accrues.
these investment management services are provided.
h Finance costs Initial fees received in advance, arising on Open Ended Investment Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings, interest Company OEIC contracts, are taken to the Statement of on pension liabilities, amortisation of loan issue costs, unwinding Financial Position and amortised over the period of the asset of discount on provisions and dividends on Preference Shares.
The Group enters into standard contractual Borrowing costs are recognised in the Income Statement on an terms for all investors.
Therefore, the period of provision of asset effective interest rate basis.
management services is estimated based upon the Groups experience of the average holding periods of OEIC investors.
The i Income taxes average holding period is reassessed on an annual basis.
The income tax expense or income disclosed on the face of the The Group is entitled to earn performance fees from a number Income Statement represents the aggregate of current tax and of clients if the actual investment performance of clients assets the movement in deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the exceeds defined benchmarks by an agreed level of Income Statement for the period, except to the extent that it is outperformance, generally in a set time period.
Most of the attributable to a gain or loss that is recognised directly in equity.
Groups performance fee arrangements are assessed on a In such cases the gain or loss shown in equity is stated calendar year basis.
Performance fees are recognised when the separately from the attributable income tax.
quantum of the fee can be estimated reliably, which is when the Current tax is the expected tax payable to, or receivable from, performance period ends, when this occurs on or before the the taxation authorities on the taxable profit for the period, using reporting date, or where there is a period of less than six tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, months remaining to the end of the performance period and and includes any adjustment to tax payable in respect of there is evidence at the reporting date which suggests that the previous years.
current performance will be sustainable.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on d Leases differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities All leases entered into by the Group are operating leases, being in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax basis leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and used in the computation of taxable profit, accounted for using rewards of ownership of the leased asset.
Rentals paid under the reporting date liability method.
operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives are apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset recognised by the Group as a reduction in the rental expense, realised, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively allocated on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
enacted at the reporting date.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report MIDDLE:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:37 Page 49 F&C Asset Management Accounting Policies Financial Statements 49 Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable k Intangible assets temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to i Goodwill the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available Goodwill arising from a business combination is initially against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised, measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business except: combination over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a any accumulated impairment losses.
transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither the accounting nor Business combinations arising after 1 July 2002 and before taxable profit or loss: or 31 December 2009 were accounted for under IFRS 3: Business Combinations using the purchase method.
Where the initial In respect of taxable or deductible temporary differences amount of goodwill can only be determined on a provisional associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, basis at the end of the financial reporting period, adjustments where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences are made to the amount of goodwill up to 12 months from the can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary date of acquisition.
Other adjustments to goodwill are made for differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
amounts that are contingent on future events and on the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each realisation of potential benefits of the acquirees tax losses reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer carried forward and other deferred tax assets that did not satisfy probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all the criteria for separate recognition on acquisition.
or part of the asset to be recovered.
Business combinations arising after 31 December 2009 are Any income tax expense or income in respect of taxable gains accounted for under IFRS 3 Revised : Business Combinations.
or losses attributable to policyholders falls to be borne by or to Where the initial amount of goodwill can only be determined on the benefit of the Groups unit-linked policyholders.
As a result, a provisional basis at the end of the financial reporting period, the Directors consider it appropriate to differentiate on the face adjustments are made to the amount of goodwill up to 12 of the Income Statement between tax attributable to months from the date of acquisition to the extent that they relate policyholders and that attributable to shareholders.
to revisions to the quantum of net assets acquired.
Any adjustment to the initial consideration, including amounts which j Property, plant and equipment are conditional upon performance criteria, are recognised in the Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less Income Statement in the period in which the subsequent accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment is capitalised on Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if initial recognition.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying when it is probable that there will be future economic benefits value may be impaired.
associated with the expenditure which can be measured reliably.
ii Investment management contracts All other expenditure is recognised in the Income Statement as Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial an expense as incurred.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a Property, plant and equipment is depreciated so as to write off business combination is fair value as at the date of acquisition.
the cost of assets, using the straight-line method, over their Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost estimated useful lives, as follows: less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Leasehold improvements over 10 years Motor vehicles over 3-4 years The useful lives of management contracts are finite and such Office furniture & equipment over 3-5 years contracts are amortised on a straight-line basis over their Computer equipment over 3-4 years estimated useful lives or average contractual term, with amortisation being charged to the Income Statement.
The Depreciation is recognised as an expense in the Income amortisation period is reviewed at each financial year end.
Details of estimated useful lives are shown in note 13.
The carrying value of assets and their useful lives are reviewed iii Software and licences at each reporting date.
If an indication of impairment exists, the Separately purchased intangible assets have a finite life and are assets are written down to their recoverable amount and the shown at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment is charged to the Income Statement in the period in accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the which it arises.
Income Statement in equal annual instalments, based on the An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon following useful economic lives: disposal or when no further future economic benefits are Software 3 years expected from its use.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition Licences over the contractual term 3-5 years of the asset calculated as the fair value less costs to sell is included in the Income Statement in the year the asset is Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is derecognised.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report MIDDLE:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:37 Page 50 50 Financial Statements Accounting Policies F&C Asset Management instrument which is substantially the same: or discounted cash l Impairment of intangible assets flow analysis and option pricing models.
At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication Financial instruments are classified into the categories exists, or when annual impairment testing is required, the Group described below: makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An i Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cashinclude investments that are held for trading purposes or generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, that have been specifically designated as at fair value and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does through profit or loss.
They are carried in the Statement of not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those Financial Position at fair value and movements in fair value from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying are taken to the Income Statement in the period in which amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset they arise.
The following assets and liabilities are classified is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable as financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: amount.
Any impairment arising is recognised in the Income Statement.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash Current assets: flows are discounted to their present value using a discount rate Financial investments that reflects current market assessments of the time value of Stock of units and shares money and the risks specific to the asset.
Current liabilities: For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a Investment contract liabilities business combination is allocated to a cash-generating unit, or Other financial liabilities group of cash-generating units, that are expected to benefit Non-current liabilities: from the synergies of the combination.
Each unit or group of Other financial liabilities units to which the goodwill is so allocated represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for The Group has adopted trade date accounting for internal management purposes.
purchases or sales of financial assets under a contract whose terms require delivery of the asset within the time Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of frame established in the marketplace concerned.
the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill Accordingly, such financial instruments are recognised on associated with the operation disposed of is included in the the date the Group commits to the purchase of the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or investments, and are derecognised on the date it commits loss on disposal of the operation.
Except for any goodwill impairments, which cannot be reversed, The Group has adopted the Fair Value Option in IAS 39, an assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether which enables the liabilities in respect of the Groups unitthere is any indication that previously recognised impairment linked investment contracts to be matched to the fair value losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such of the related assets which are solely attributable to the indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A investment contract policyholders, thus reflecting the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there contractual entitlement of the policyholders.
Differences in has been a change in the estimates used to determine the fair values are taken to the Income Statement.
assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
In such a case the carrying amount of the asset is ii Available for sale financial assets are also carried at fair increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount value in the Statement of Financial Position.
In respect of cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been unquoted instruments, or where the market for a financial determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, had no instrument is not active, fair value is established by using impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
recognised valuation methodologies, in accordance with Such reversals are recognised in the Income Statement.
After International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation such a reversal, the amortisation or depreciation charge is Guidelines.
Where insufficient information exists to produce adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying a valuation then the price of recent investments is used.
amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its Such techniques include using: recent arms length market remaining useful life.
transactions: reference to the current market value of another instrument which is substantially the same: or m Financial instruments discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
Financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value, plus For unquoted investments in early stage enterprises and directly attributable transaction costs, in the case of investments enterprises with revenues but without significant profits or not at fair value through profit or loss.
significant positive cash flows, fair value is determined using The fair value of instruments that are actively traded in organised the Price of a Recent Investment method.
Repayments financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market are treated as reductions to carrying value.
After an bid prices mid price for OEICs at the close of business on the appropriate period, an assessment is made as to whether reporting date.
For investments where there is no active market, the circumstances of the investment have changed such fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
Such that another valuation methodology is appropriate, and techniques include using: recent arms length market whether there is any evidence of deterioration or strong transactions: reference to the current market value of another defensible evidence of an increase in value.
In the absence Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report MIDDLE:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:37 Page 51 F&C Asset Management Accounting Policies Financial Statements 51 of these indicators, fair value is determined to be that Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities reported at the previous reporting date.
Financial assets A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset, Unquoted investments with revenues, maintainable profits is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the and or maintainable cash flows are valued by deriving an asset have expired.
Enterprise Value of the underlying business.
Financial liabilities Movements in fair value, other than impairment losses and A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the foreign exchange movements on monetary assets, are liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
taken to the fair value reserve in equity until derecognition of the asset, at which time the cumulative amount in this Impairment of financial assets reserve is recognised in the Income Statement.
The The Group assesses at each reporting date whether a financial following assets are classified as available for sale: asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Non-current assets: Assets carried at amortised cost Financial investments If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the iii Loans and receivables are measured on initial recognition at amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the Income recognised in the Income Statement when loans and Statement.
receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
The following assets are If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss classified as loans and receivables: decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the Non-current assets: previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any Other receivables subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the Current assets: Income Statement to the extent that the carrying value of the Cash and cash equivalents asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Trade and other receivables Available for sale financial assets iv Other financial liabilities include the minority interest put If an available for sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising options and forward currency contracts which are the difference between its cost net of any principal payment recognised at fair value through profit or loss.
and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the Income Statement, is The minority interest put options, over equity in majority transferred from equity to the Income Statement.
Reversals in owned subsidiaries, are recognised at fair value at the respect of equity instruments classified as available for sale are reporting date.
Upon initial recognition the fair value of the not recognised in the Income Statement.
Reversals of put option is debited to equity.
Subsequent movements to impairment losses on debt instruments are taken through the the fair value are reflected in the Income Statement.
Fair Income Statement if the increase in fair value of the instrument value is the amount at which a derivative could be can be objectively related to an event occurring after the exchanged in a transaction at the reporting date between impairment loss was recognised in the Income Statement.
n Cash and cash equivalents The remaining financial liabilities are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest rate after initial recognition.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits The following liabilities are classified as other financial held at call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments in money market instruments with original maturity liabilities: dates of three months or less.
Non-current liabilities: Interest bearing loans and borrowings o Investment contracts Other payables The Group sells unit-linked pension investment contracts through its insurance entity, F&C Managed Pension Funds Current liabilities: Limited MPF.
These unit-linked contracts involve both the Trade and other payables Interest bearing loans and borrowings transfer of a financial instrument and the provision of investment management services.
The financial instrument component is Expenses incurred in respect of raising capital on interest classified as a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss.
bearing loans and borrowings are amortised over the term The financial liability is measured using a valuation technique of the loan on an effective interest rate basis.
These based on the carrying value of the assets and liabilities that are expenses are offset against the loan amount.
held to back the contract, adjusted to take account of the effect on the liabilities of discounting for the time value of tax payments on assets sold in the fund.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report MIDDLE:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:37 Page 52 52 Financial Statements Accounting Policies F&C Asset Management Unit-linked policyholder assets held by MPF and related Current service cost, which is the actuarially calculated policyholder liabilities are carried at fair value, with changes in present value of the benefits earned by the active fair value taken to profit or loss.
employees in each period: Amounts received from and paid to investors under these Past service costs, which relate to employee service in prior contracts are accounted for as deposits received or paid and periods, and arise as a result of the introduction of, or therefore not recorded in the Income Statement.
At the reporting improvement to, retirement benefits in the current period.
These are recognised in the Income Statement on a date the value of these contracts is stated at an amount equal to the fair value of the net assets held to match the contractual straight-line basis over the period in which the increase in obligations.
benefits vests: Settlements or curtailments recognised in the Income p Insurance contract liabilities Statement to the extent that they are not allowed for in the Insurance contract liabilities are measured in accordance with actuarial assumptions.
Gains or losses on settlements or actuarial principles and guidance.
Any change in the value of the curtailments are recognised at the date on which there is a liability is taken to Movement in fair value of unit-linked demonstratable commitment to making a significant liabilities in the Income Statement.
Where these liabilities are reduction in the number of employees covered by the plan reinsured, the element of the risk reinsured is valued on the or an amendment to the terms of the plan: same basis as the related liability and is included as an asset in the Statement of Financial Position.
Changes in the value of the The expected return on pension assets recognised within asset are taken to the Income Statement.
Amounts recoverable Finance revenue: and under reinsurance contracts are assessed for impairment at The interest on pension obligations recognised in Finance each reporting date.
q Employee and member benefits The actuarial gains and losses, which arise from any new i Short-term employee benefits valuation and from updating the previous actuarial valuation to Short-term employee benefits are recognised as an reflect conditions at the reporting date, are taken in full to the undiscounted expense and liability when the employee has Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period.
rendered services during an accounting period.
Short-term Defined contribution schemes compensated absences are recognised, in the case of Contributions made to these schemes are charged to the accumulating compensated absences, when the employees Income Statement as they become payable in accordance with render service that increases their entitlement to future the rules of the scheme.
compensated absences or, in the case of non-accumulating compensated absences, when the absences occur.
v Other long-term employee benefits Other long-term employee benefits are recognised at the ii Profit-sharing and bonus payments discounted present value of the obligation at the reporting date.
These are recognised when there is a present legal or The benefit is determined using actuarial techniques to estimate constructive obligation to make such payments as a result of past the amount of benefit employees have earned for their services events and a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
iii Profit entitlement of members of Limited Liability Partnerships vi Termination benefits Where a member of a Limited Liability Partnership LLP has an Termination benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense automatic entitlement to distributions of partnership profits in when the Group is committed to the termination of employment respect of their services, an expense Distributions to members before the normal retirement date.
A commitment to such of LLPs and a liability Members Liabilities are recognised as termination benefits arises when the Group has initiated detailed their services are rendered during an accounting period.
plans which cannot realistically be withdrawn.
iv Pension obligations r Share-based payments Defined benefit schemes The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension The Group operates a number of share scheme arrangements arrangements.
These schemes provide benefits based on final which require to be accounted for as share-based payments.
The assets of the funded schemes are held All grants of shares, share options or other share-based in separate trustee administered funds.
instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 have The pension liability recognised in the Statement of Financial been recognised as an expense.
Where applicable, the fair Position is the present obligation of the employer, which is the values of share-based payment awards are measured using a estimated present value of future benefits that employees have valuation model applicable to the terms of the awards Black earned in return for their services in the current and prior years, Scholes, Binomial or Monte Carlo simulation.
The fair value is less the value of the plan assets in the schemes.
The discount measured by an independent external valuer at the date the rate applied to the employees benefits is the appropriate AA award is granted and the expense is spread over the period corporate bond yield at the reporting date.
A qualified actuary during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to performs the calculation annually using the projected unit credit exercise the awards, known as the vesting period.
The pension costs of the schemes in the Income options exist for awards to vest on more than one date, the Statement are analysed into: expense is initially spread over the period to the earliest possible Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report MIDDLE:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:37 Page 53 F&C Asset Management Accounting Policies Financial Statements 53 vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised in the Income s Provisions Statement is equal to the estimated fair value of the award A provision is recognised in the Statement of Financial Position multiplied by the number of awards expected to vest.
Vesting of when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result awards typically depends upon meeting defined performance of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic criteria such as underlying earnings per share EPS targets benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is and or share price return targets or continued employment.
material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market The fair value of share-based payment awards, where it is not assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, considered possible to estimate reliably the fair value of these the risks specific to the liability.
No provision is established where awards at the grant date, is determined by measurement of the a reliable estimate of the obligation cannot be made.
equity instruments at intrinsic value.
The intrinsic value is spread over the vesting period.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be recovered from external parties, the recovery is recognised as a Vesting of equity-settled employee share awards depends upon separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually meeting market and or non-market related performance certain.
The type of vesting criteria affects the calculation of the expense charged to the Income Statement and subsequent Where the Group has obligations under property leases and adjustments, as follows: where the space has ceased to be used for the purposes of the business, full provision is made for future net outstanding i Non-market related conditions are performance criteria not liabilities under such leases after taking into account the effect of directly linked to Company share price targets, such as EPS any expected sub-letting arrangements.
targets and or continued employment.
The probability of meeting non-market conditions is incorporated into the t Share capital expense charge via the estimate of the number of awards When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial expected to vest.
The total cumulative expense is liability of the Company or Group is presented as a liability in the reassesed at each reporting date and is ultimately adjusted Statement of Financial Position, measured initially at fair value, to reflect the actual number of awards which vest.
net of transaction costs and thereafter at amortised cost until Therefore, if no awards vest, no cumulative expense charge extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The remainder of the issue proceeds is allocated to the equity ii Market related conditions are performance criteria linked to component and included in shareholders equity, net of Company share price targets.
The probability of meeting transaction costs.
market conditions is incorporated into the calculation of the fair value of the award.
Should the market-based Ordinary Share capital performance condition not ultimately be met, no true When Ordinary Shares are repurchased, the amounts of up down adjustment is made to reflect this.
Therefore, an consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, are expense charge is made whether market-based awards recognised in the own share reserve included within retained ultimately vest or not.
earnings and are classified as deductions in equity.
The Companys dealings in its own shares are reflected through equity.
IFRS 2: Share-based Payment makes a distinction between awards settled in equity and those settled in cash.
EquityDividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised on the date of settled awards are charged to the Income Statement with a payment, or if subject to approval, the date approved by the corresponding credit to equity.
charged to the Income Statement with a corresponding credit to liabilities.
The estimated fair value of cash-settled awards is u Accounting for Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs re-measured at each reporting date until the payments are The Group has several EBTs which own shares in the Company ultimately settled.
and other investments to enable it to satisfy certain future settlements of share-based awards.
The EBTs are consolidated Awards to employees treated as good leavers or employees into the Groups results, with these own shares included within who cancel their savings contracts under the Share Save retained earnings at cost.
Consideration received for such Scheme vest immediately and the remaining full expense of the shares is also recognised in retained earnings.
No gain or loss is awards is charged to the Income Statement at that time.
Good recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, leavers include retirees and involuntary redundancies.
sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Other investments The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as held by EBTs are recognised as assets in the Statement of additional share dilution in the computation of EPS.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report MIDDLE:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:37 Page 54 54 Financial Statements Accounting Policies F&C Asset Management v New standards and interpretations not applied The International Accounting Standards Board has issued the following standards, relevant to the Group, which have not yet been applied and have an effective date after the date of these Financial Statements: International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS Effective Date Endorsed by the European Union and available for early adoption: IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation: Amendments relating to 1 February 2010 classification of Rights issues IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 1 July 2010 IAS 24 revised 2009 Related Party Disclosures: Revised definition of related parties 1 January 2011 Amendment to IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding 1 January 2011 Requirements and their Interaction: Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement Not yet endorsed by the European Union: Improvements to IFRS May 2010 Improvements to IFRS 2010 1 July 2010 1 January 2011 Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Amendments enhancing disclosures about transfers of financial assets 1 July 2011 Disclosures October 2010 IAS 12: Income Taxes December 2010 Deferred tax: recovery of underlying assets 1 January 2012 IFRS 9: Financial Instruments Classification and Measurement 1 January 2013 The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards will materially impact the Groups financial results in the period of initial application although there may be revised presentations to the primary Financial Statements and additional disclosures.
No material impact on the Group is expected to arise from any other standards which are available for early adoption.
The Group intends to adopt the standards in the reporting period when they become effective.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
