15841 F&C Annual Report MIDDLE:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:37 Page 129 F&C Asset Management Financial Statements 129 Company Accounting Policies Basis of preparation contribution reserve in equity.
The Company recharges certain subsidiaries when it satisfies these equity-settled awards with its The separate Financial Statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act and are prepared under the own shares.
historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of investments, and in accordance with applicable accounting Tangible fixed assets standards in the United Kingdom.
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The principal accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently for the years ended 31 December 2010 and Expenditure on tangible fixed assets is capitalised on initial 31 December 2009, with the exception of the prior period recognition.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised when it is adjustment in respect of the minority interest put options, as probable that there will be future economic benefits associated with explained in note 1. the expenditure which can be measured reliably.
All other expenditure is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account as an In accordance with Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 a expense as incurred.
separate Profit and Loss Account for the Company is not presented.
Tangible fixed assets are depreciated, using the straight-line The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29: method, to write off the cost of assets over their estimated useful Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and has not lives, as follows: disclosed the information required by that standard because the Company is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements Leasehold improvements 10 years which are publicly available and include disclosures given under Office furniture & equipment 3-5 years IFRS 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Computer equipment 3 years The carrying value of assets and their useful lives are reviewed at Going concern each reporting date.
If an indication of impairment exists, the assets The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to are written down to their recoverable amount and the impairment is affect its future development, performance and position are set out charged to the Profit and Loss Account in the year in which it arises.
in the Business Review on pages 2 to 20.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are also described in Financial instruments the Business Review.
In addition, note 36 to the Consolidated When financial instruments are recognised initially they are Financial Statements on pages 106 to 110 includes the Groups measured at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk manaqement objectives: details of its financial The fair value of instruments that are actively traded in organised instruments and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid prices mid price for Open Ended Investment Companies at the After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation close of business on the balance sheet date.
that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they Financial instruments are classified into the categories described continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these below: Financial Statements.
i Available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value in the Balance Sheet.
In respect of unquoted instruments, or where Turnover the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is Turnover comprises fees for secretarial services provided to established by using recognised valuation methodologies, in Investment Trusts and shared services and administration services accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital provided to subsidiary undertakings.
Fees are recognised in the Valuation Guidelines.
Profit and Loss Account over the period for which these services are For unquoted investments in early stage enterprises and provided.
enterprises with revenues but without significant profits or significant positive cash flows, fair value is determined using the Dividend recognition Price of a Recent Investment method.
Repayments are treated Dividends receivable and dividends payable are recognised only as reductions to carrying value.
After an appropriate period, an when they have been declared and approved or at the date of assessment is made as to whether the circumstances of the payment for interim dividends.
investment have changed such that another valuation methodology is appropriate or there is any evidence of Investments in subsidiaries deterioration or strong defensible evidence of an increase in Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less accumulated value.
In the absence of these indicators, fair value is impairment losses.
The cost includes the uplift arising from the determined to be that reported at the previous balance equity-settled share-based payments calculated in accordance with sheet date.
FRS 20: Share-based Payment, where no cash contributions are made by the subsidiaries.
The uplift is credited to a capital Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report MIDDLE:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:37 Page 130 130 Financial Statements Company Accounting Policies F&C Asset Management Unquoted investments with revenues, maintainable profits Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and or maintainable cash flows are valued by deriving an A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset, is Enterprise Value of the underlying business.
derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset Movements in fair value, other than impairment losses and have expired.
foreign exchange movements on monetary assets, are taken to the fair value reserve in equity until derecognition of the asset, at Financial liabilities which time the cumulative amount in this reserve is recognised A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the in the Profit and Loss Account.
The following assets are liability is either discharged, cancelled or expires.
classified as available for sale: Fixed assets Impairment of financial assets Other investments The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
ii Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss include investments which have been specifically designated as at fair Assets carried at amortised cost value through profit or loss.
These are carried in the Balance If there is objective evidence that an impairment in loans and Sheet at fair value and movements in fair value are taken to the receivables carried at amortised cost has occurred, the amount of Profit and Loss Account in the period in which they arise.
The the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the following assets are classified as financial instruments at fair assets carrying amount and the expected recoverable amount.
The value through profit or loss: carrying amount of the asset would be reduced and the amount of Fixed assets the loss recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Other investments If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss iii Loans and receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event value plus any incremental costs incurred.
Subsequent to initial occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortised recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses an impairment loss is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account to are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account when loans and the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortised cost at the reversal date.
The following assets and liabilities are classified as loans and receivables: Available for sale financial assets If an available for sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the Current assets: difference between its cost net of any principal payment and Debtors amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss Cash and short-term deposits previously recognised in the Profit and Loss Account, is transferred iv Financial liabilities are recognised at amortised cost using the from reserves to the Profit and Loss Account.
Reversals in respect effective interest rate method after initial recognition.
The of equity instruments classified as available for sale are not following liabilities are classified as financial liabilities: recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are taken through the Profit and Loss Creditors amounts falling due within one year Account, if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be Creditors amounts falling due outwith one year objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss The Company has adopted trade date accounting for was recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
purchases or sales of financial assets under a contract whose terms require delivery of the assets within the timeframe Deferred taxation established in the marketplace concerned.
Accordingly, such Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that financial instruments are recognised on the date the Company have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where commits to the purchase of the investments, and are transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in derecognised on the date it commits to their sale.
an obligation to pay less or receive more tax, with the following exceptions: Minority interest put options Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation Previously, minority interest put options were included in the Balance and similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, or gains on Sheet at the gross value of the option liability, with any change in disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into value reflected through the Profit and Loss Account.
As it has been replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet determined that these do not constitute an obligation to purchase date, there is a commitment to dispose of the assets own equity, the options have now been valued at their estimated fair concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis value.
As a result, a prior period adjustment has been made, as of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more disclosed in note 1. likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only when the replacement assets are sold: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report MIDDLE:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:37 Page 131 F&C Asset Management Company Accounting Policies Financial Statements 131 Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on Related party disclosures remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only FRS 8: Related Party Disclosures requires disclosure of the details of to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have material transactions between the reporting entity and related been accrued as receivable: and parties.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8 not to disclose transactions between F&C Group companies Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the which eliminate on consolidation.
Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing Foreign currencies differences can be deducted.
The Companys Financial Statements are presented in millions of Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates pounds Sterling rounded to one decimal place, the Companys that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences functional and presentational currency.
reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional enacted at the balance sheet date.
currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at Operating leases the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the Profit and the balance sheet date, and any exchange differences arising are Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
taken to the Profit and Loss Account.
Lease incentives are recognised by the Company as a reduction of Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost in a the rental expense, allocated on a straight-line basis, over the foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date shorter of the lease term and a period ending on a date from which of transaction and are not subsequently restated.
Non-monetary it is expected the prevailing market rental will be payable.
assets and liabilities stated at fair value in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate at the date the fair value was Accounting for Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs determined.
When fair value movements in assets and liabilities are UITF 38 requires that own shares acquired through an EBT be reflected in the Profit and Loss Account, the corresponding deducted in arriving at shareholders funds until they vest exchange movements are also recognised in the Profit and Loss unconditionally to the employees.
Consideration paid and received Account.
Conversely, when fair value movements in assets and for the purchase or sale of these shares is included in shareholders liabilities are reflected directly in equity, the corresponding exchange funds and no gain or loss is recognised.
Other assets and liabilities movements are also recognised directly in equity, with the exception of the EBTs are recognised as assets and liabilities of the Company.
of available for sale debt instruments, which are reflected in the Ordinary Shares of the Company are held by EBTs in order to satisfy Profit and Loss Account.
a number of F&C Group share-based payment plans and future exercises of options and awards to employees of subsidiary Share-based payments companies.
The cost relating to the share-based payment plans is The Company operates a share scheme arrangement which recognised in the subsidiary companies which employ the staff in requires to be accounted for as a share-based payment.
receipt of awards and the Company recognises any fresh issue of All grants of shares, share options or other share-based instruments shares or re-issue of own shares when such a transaction occurs.
that were granted after 7 November 2002 have been recognised as These shares are included in the Financial Statements of the an expense.
The fair values of share-based payment awards are Company as a deduction from shareholders funds.
measured using a valuation model applicable to the terms of the awards.
The fair value is measured by an independent external Provisions valuer at the date the award is granted and the expense is spread A provision is recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Company over the period during which the parties become unconditionally has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and entitled to exercise the awards, known as the vesting period.
The it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to cumulative expense recognised in the Profit and Loss Account is settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are equal to the estimated fair value of the award multiplied by the determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a prenumber of awards expected to vest.
tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of The fair value of share-based payment awards, where it is not money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
No considered possible to estimate reliably the fair value of these provision is established where a reliable estimate of the obligation awards at the grant date, is determined by measurement of the cannot be made.
equity instruments at intrinsic value.
The intrinsic value is spread Where the Company expects some or all of a provision to be over the vesting period.
reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset Vesting of equity-settled employee share awards depends upon but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
meeting non-market related performance conditions.
The type of Where the Company has obligations under property leases and vesting criteria affects the calculation of the expense charged to the where the space has ceased to be used for the purposes of the Profit and Loss Account and subsequent adjustments as nonbusiness, full provision is made for future net outstanding liabilities market related conditions are performance criteria, such as earnings under such leases after taking into account the effect of any targets and or service requirements.
The probability of meeting nonexpected sub-letting arrangements.
market conditions is incorporated into the expense charge via the estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The total Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report MIDDLE:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:37 Page 132 132 Financial Statements Company Accounting Policies F&C Asset Management cumulative expense is ultimately adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards which vest.
Therefore, if no awards vest, no cumulative expense is ultimately recognised.
FRS 20: Share-based Payment makes a distinction between awards settled in equity and those settled in cash.
Equity-settled awards are charged to the Profit and Loss Account with a corresponding credit to equity.
Cash-settled awards are charged to the Profit and Loss Account with a corresponding credit to liabilities.
The estimated fair value of cash-settled awards is re-measured at each reporting date until the payments are ultimately settled.
Ordinary Share capital When Ordinary Shares are issued the proceeds on issue are allocated to the equity component and included in shareholders funds, net of transaction costs.
When Ordinary Shares are repurchased, the amounts of consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, are recognised in the own share reserve included within retained earnings and are classified as deductions in equity.
Dealings in own shares are reflected through equity.
Dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised on the date of payment, or if subject to approval, the date approved by the shareholders.
Cash flow statement The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions in FRS 1 revised : Cash Flow Statements and has elected not to prepare a Cash Flow Statement as it is included within the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement in the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C Asset Management plc.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
