15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 143 F&C Asset Management Shareholder Information 143 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the thirty first Annual General Meeting subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in of F&C Asset Management plc will be held at The Gibson Hall, the Company, after such expiry: and 13 Bishopsgate, London EC2N 3BA on Tuesday 3 May 2011 at C for the purpose of this Resolution, Pre-Emptive Offer 11 a. m. UK time for the following purposes: means an offer of equity securities to: Ordinary Business 1 holders of ordinary shares other than the Company on a fixed record date in proportion to their respective To be proposed as ordinary resolutions: holdings of such shares: and 1.
To receive the Financial Statements and the Reports of the 2 other persons entitled to participate in such offer by Directors and the Independent Auditors for the year ended virtue of the rights attaching to any other equity 31 December 2010. securities held by them, 2.
To declare a final dividend of 2.0 pence per share on the in each case, subject to such exclusions or other ordinary shares of the Company to be paid on 27 May 2011 arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or to members whose name appears on the register of members appropriate in relation to fractional entitlements, legal, at the close of business on 1 April 2011. regulatory or practical problems under the laws or the 3.
To re-elect Keith Bedell-Pearce as a Director.
requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange of 4.
To re-elect Edward Bramson as a Director.
To re-elect Jeff Medlock as a Director.
To be proposed as special resolutions: 6.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year 9.
A subject to the passing of resolution 8 set out in this Notice 7.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company to the Allotment Authority, the Directors be given power hold office until the conclusion of the next General Meeting at pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 the which Financial Statements are laid before the Company and to Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of section authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
560 1 of the Act for cash, pursuant to the authorities given by the Allotment Authority, and to sell treasury shares wholly 8.
THAT: for cash, as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any A pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 such allotment or sale, provided that such power shall be the Act, the Directors be generally and unconditionally limited to the allotment of equity securities or the sale of authorised to allot: treasury shares: 1 shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe 1 in the case of paragraph A 1 of the Allotment for or to convert any security into shares in the Authority, a in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer as Company, up to a maximum nominal amount of defined in the Allotment Authority : or b in order to 177,355.19, subject to paragraph A 2 : and satisfy options or awards under any share scheme for 2 shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe employees or share incentive plan approved by the for or to convert any security into shares in the Company in general meeting: or c otherwise, up to a Company, comprising equity securities within the maximum nominal amount of 26,605.94: meaning of section 560 1 of the Act up to a maximum 2 in the case of paragraph A 2 of the Allotment nominal amount when aggregated with any allotment Authority, in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer made pursuant to paragraph A 1 of 267,917.21 in undertaken by means of a rights issue: connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer undertaken by B the power given in this Resolution: means of a rights issue: 1 shall be in substitution for all pre-existing authorities B the authorities given in this Resolution: under section 570 of the Act but without prejudice to 1 shall be in substitution for all pre-existing authorities to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date allot shares under section 551 of the Act other than the hereof: and specific authorities granted at the general meeting of 2 unless renewed in accordance with the Act, shall expire the Company held on 18 June 2010 to allot shares to at the same time as the Allotment Authority, save that satisfy the consideration payable in relation to the the Company may before such expiry make an offer or acquisition of Thames River and the related agreement which would or might require equity commutation arrangements and for the settlement of securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold awards made under the management share plans but after such expiry.
without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof: and This power applies to a sale of shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 560 3 of the Act as 2 unless renewed, revoked or varied in accordance with if the words in the case of paragraph A 1 of the Allotment the Act, shall expire at the completion of the Annual Authority, and in the case of paragraph A 2 of the General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2012, Allotment Authority, were omitted from, respectively, save that the Company may before such expiry make paragraphs A 1 and A 2 of this resolution.
an offer or agreement which would or might require the allotment of shares in the Company, or the right to Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 144 144 Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting F&C Asset Management 10.
THAT, in substitution for any existing power under section 701 Notes of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, but without prejudice to i A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and speak and vote on his her the exercise of any such power prior to the date hereof, the behalf.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
A authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with section 701 of member may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of attached to any one share.
A proxy need not be a member of the section 693 of the Act of fully paid ordinary shares of 0.1 pence Company.
each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares in such ii A Form of Proxy for use by Ordinary Shareholders in connection with the terms and in such manner as the Directors of the Company may meeting is enclosed with these Accounts.
To be valid, the Form of Proxy decide, provided that: should be completed and signed and sent or delivered, together with any power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or an i the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby extract from the Books of Council and Session or a notarially certified authorised to be purchased is 53,211,879 being copy or a copy certified in accordance with the Powers of Attorney Act 1971 of such power or authority, in accordance with the instructions approximately 10 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share contained therein, so as to reach the Companys registrars, at the capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at address stated thereon, not later than 11 a. m. UK time on 1 May 2011.
31 March 2011 : iii Alternatively, shareholders who would like to lodge their proxy ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share electronically may do so via the Sharevote website is 0.1 pence exclusive of expenses : and www.
co. uk or through CREST in each case so as to be received by no later than 11 a. m. UK time on 1 May 2011.
Further iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be details relating to proxy appointments through CREST are set out in note paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per xvi below.
If you return more than one valid proxy appointment in respect of the same share, either by paper or electronic communication, cent.
of the average of the middle market quotations as the one which is received last will take precedence: if the Company is derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock unable to determine which of them was received last, none of them will Exchange for the ordinary shares for the five business days be treated as valid in respect of that share.
immediately preceding the date of purchase, iv Completing and returning a Form of Proxy will not prevent an Ordinary such authority to expire on the earlier of the date falling 15 Shareholder from attending in person at the meeting referred to above months after the date of the passing of this resolution and the and voting should he or she wish to do so.
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be v To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purposes of held in 2012, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed by the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, the Company in general meeting, save that the Company may shareholders must be registered in the register of members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. on Thursday, 29 April 2011 or, in the event of any at any time prior to the expiry of such authority enter into a adjournment, on the date which is two days excluding any part of a day contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under such that is not a working day before the time of the adjourned meeting.
authority which will or might be completed or executed wholly or Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts as if this authority had not expired.
vi If you are not a member of the Company but you have been nominated by a member of the Company to enjoy information rights, you do not Special Business have a right to appoint a proxy.
To be proposed as ordinary resolutions: vii If you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights: 11.
THAT for the purposes of Article 95 of the Articles of Association of the Company the maximum aggregate amount of fees paid You may have a right under an agreement between you and the to, and benefits received by, the Directors for their services in member of the Company who has nominated you to have information rights Relevant Member to be appointed or to have the office of director shall be increased from 600,000 per someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If you either do not have such a right or if you have such a right but 12.
THAT the proposed amendments to the rules of The F&C Asset do not wish to exercise it, you may have a right under an agreement Management plc Long Term Remuneration Plan summarised in between you and the Relevant Member to give instructions to the the appendix to this Notice be and are hereby approved and the Relevant Member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Directors be and are hereby authorised to do all such things as viii Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more may be necessary to carry the same into effect.
corporate representative s who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the To be proposed as a special resolution: same shares.
THAT the period of notice for calling a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting shall be not less than 14 clear days provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2012.
By order of the Board W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA Secretary 80 George Street Edinburgh EH2 3BU 6 April 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 145 F&C Asset Management Notice of Annual General Meeting Shareholder Information 145 ix Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders meeting the xvi CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which action on their behalf.
annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to available via www.
The message, regardless of the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been valid, be transmitted so as to be received by our Registrars, Equiniti ID required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a RA19 by 11 a. m. UK time on 1 May 2011.
For this purpose, the time of website.
receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp x Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instruction to given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST xi In accordance with section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member contents of this notice, details of the total number of shares in respect of concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting and, member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s members matters of business received by the Company after the date of take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is this notice of meeting will be available on the Companys website at transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those xii As at 31 March 2011 being the latest practicable date prior to sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consisted CREST system and timings.
of 532,118,789 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each carrying one vote each.
No shares are held in treasury.
Therefore, total voting rights in the The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the Company as at 31 March 2011 are 532,118,789. circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. xiii Copies of the following documents will be made available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and at the Companys head office during normal business hours on any week day Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of this notice until the close of the meeting, and at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to and during the continuance of the meeting: the Executive Directors service contracts and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment: the rules of The F&C Asset Management plc Long Term Remuneration Plan marked up to show the proposed amendments: and the articles of association of the Company.
xiv A member may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
xv The Company has made provision for shareholders who would like to vote by electronic means.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 146 146 Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting F&C Asset Management Appendix 3.
Proposed amendments to above provisions relating to cessation of a participants employment.
Summary of the proposed amendments to the F&C Asset The above provisions will be amended in respect of certain Management plc Long Term Remuneration Plan Restricted Awards see below so as to provide that if, prior to vesting, a participant ceases employment with the F&C Group in the circumstances set out in paragraph 2 iii above then the Board will 1.
Introduction have the discretion to disapply the time pro-rating reduction that Under the rules of the LTRP, the Board can grant two different forms would otherwise have been made.
However, in these cases vesting of awards over Ordinary Shares, namely: will continue to occur on the third anniversary of grant to the extent i awards that are subject to performance targets which must be that the applicable performance conditions have been satisfied.
satisfied if they are to vest Restricted Awards : and For the avoidance of doubt, no other amendments will be made to ii awards that are not subject to such performance targets the provisions summarised at paragraph 2 above.
Similarly, no Deferred Awards changes are being made to the terms of the LTRP that apply to Deferred Awards.
Under the rules of the LTRP, no Deferred Awards can be granted to F&Cs executive directors.
Application of proposed amendments The amendments summarised at paragraph 3 above will only apply 2.
Existing LTRP provisions relating to cessation of a Restricted Award holders employment to any Restricted Awards granted between 1 January 2011 and Currently, the provisions of the LTRP that apply where the holder of 31 December 2011.
Performance Awards granted after a Restricted Award ceases employment with the F&C Group can be 31 December 2011 will be subject the current provisions summarised as follows: summarised at paragraph 2 above.
i If the participant leaves the employment of the F&C Group for 5.
Rationale for proposed amendments any reason other than as specified below prior to the vesting of A summary of the rationale for these proposed amendments to the his Awards which will normally take place on the third LTRP is set out on page 25 of the Annual Report and Financial anniversary of grant to the extent that applicable performance Statements that accompany this Notice of Annual General Meeting.
targets have been satisfied then they will lapse immediately.
ii If, prior to vesting, the participant dies or ceases employment by Defined Terms reason of injury, ill-health or disability then his Awards will vest In this appendix, the following words and expressions bear the immediately provided that such vesting will only occur if, and to following meanings unless the context requires otherwise: the extent that, the applicable performance targets have been Board the board of directors of F&C, or a duly authorised satisfied at that time.
committee thereof: iii If, prior to vesting, the participant ceases employment by reason F&C F&C Asset Management plc: of redundancy, retirement at normal retirement age or because the participants employing company or part of the business in F&C Group the group of companies of which F&C is the holding which he is employed is transferred out of the F&C Group, or company: any other reason at the discretion of the Board, then his Awards LTRP The F&C Asset Management plc Long Term Remuneration will continue to vest on the third anniversary of grant but again Plan: and only if, and to the extent that, the applicable performance conditions have been satisfied.
In addition, the amount of an Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares of 0.1p each in the capital Award which vests in these circumstances will be reduced proof F&C.
rata in line with the proportion of the vesting period that had elapsed at the time the participant ceased to be employed by the F&C Group.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
