Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are report and financial statements in accordance with also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires including a Business Review, a Directors Remuneration the Directors to prepare financial statements for each Report and a Corporate Governance Statement that financial period.
Under that law they have elected to comply with that law and those regulations.
The prepare the financial statements in accordance with UK Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys pages of the Managers The financial statements are required by law to give a website www.
Visitors to the website true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom and of the profit or loss for the period.
governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in their In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are own jurisdictions.
required to: We confirm that to the best of our knowledge the select suitable accounting policies and then apply financial statements, prepared in accordance with the them consistently: applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable profit or loss of the Company: and the Directors Report and prudent: includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards Company together with a description of the principal have been followed, subject to any material risks and uncertainties it faces.
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Approved by the Board on 1 March 2011 and signed on its behalf.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that adequate accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that its Humphrey van der Klugt financial statements comply with the Companies Act Chairman 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the 7 March 2011 assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Page 24 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010
