Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting the Company or the date 15 months after the passing of Fidelity European Values PLC will be held at of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that 25 Cannon Street, London EC4M 5TA on 18 May 2011 this authority shall allow the Company to make offers at 12 noon for the following purposes: or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be ORDINARY BUSINESS allotted after such expiry as if the authority conferred 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and by this resolution had not expired.
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010.
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out above, the Directors be and they are hereby 2.
authorised, pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 3.
To re-elect Mr Humphrey van der Klugt 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority given by the said Resolution 11 as if Section 561 of 4.
To re-elect Mr James Robinson the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: 5.
To re-elect Mr Simon Duckworth a to the allotment of equity securities in 6.
To re-elect Mr Simon Fraser connection with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of relevant equity securities 7.
To re-elect Dr Robin Niblett where the equity securities attributable respectively to the interests of all holders of 8.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for securities of such class are either proportionate the year ended 31 December 2010. as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities held by them or are 9.
To reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor of otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights the Company to hold office until the conclusion of attaching to such equity securities subject in the next general meeting at which financial either case to such exclusions or other statements are laid before the Company.
arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements 10.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors or legal or practical problems under the laws of, remuneration.
or the requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or otherwise : SPECIAL BUSINESS Resolutions 11 and 12 will, if approved, authorise the b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a Directors to allot a limited number of the currently rights issue of equity securities up to an unissued ordinary shares for cash without first offering aggregate nominal amount of 614,250 such shares to existing ordinary shareholders pro rata to approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal their existing holdings.
The limit set by the Board is 5% amount of the issued share capital of the of the number of ordinary shares of the Company in Company as at 7 March 2011 : and issue on 7 March 2011.
The Directors will only issue new shares under this authority to take advantage of c to the allotment of equity securities at a price of opportunities in the market as they arise and only if they not less than the net asset value per share believe it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so.
and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 15 months after the passing of this resolution, whichever resolutions which will be proposed, Resolution 11 as an is the earlier, save that this authority shall allow the ordinary resolution and Resolution 12 as a special Company to make offers or agreements before the resolution: expiry of this authority, and the Directors may allot equity securities in relation to such an offer or agreement as if 11.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally the authority conferred by this resolution had not and unconditionally authorised in accordance with expired.
Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot Resolution 13 is a special resolution which, if approved, relevant securities as defined in that section up will renew the Companys authority to purchase its shares to an aggregate nominal amount of 614,250 for cancellation.
The limit set by the Board is 14.99% of approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal amount the number of ordinary shares in issue on 7 March 2011. of the issued share capital of the Company as at Purchases of shares will be made at the discretion of the 7 March 2011 such authority to expire at the Board and within guidelines set from time to time by the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of Board and in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Page 54 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Notice of Meeting Purchases will only be made in the market at prices that member.
A proxy need not be a member of the below the prevailing net asset value per share, thereby Company.
resulting in an increase in net asset value per share.
2 A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned to 13.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and the Registrars at the address on the form to arrive not unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section later than 12 noon on 16 May 2011.
Completion and 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make return of the form of proxy will not prevent a market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 shareholder from subsequently attending the of the Act of shares of 25p each in the capital of the meeting and voting in person if they so wish.
Company the shares provided that: 3 To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, a the maximum number of shares hereby and any power of attorney or other authority under authorised to be purchased shall be 7,366,800: which it is signed or a copy of any such authority certified notarially or in some other way approved by b the minimum price which may be paid for a the Directors, must be deposited with the share is 25p: Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, PXS, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, c the maximum price which may be paid for a Kent BR3 4BR not less than 48 hours before the time share is an amount equal to 105% of the for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or, in average of the middle market quotations for a the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it is share taken from the London Stock Exchange demanded, not less than 24 hours before the time Official List for the five business days appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to immediately preceding the day on which the be used.
share is purchased: 4 In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the who tenders the vote shall be accepted to the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and of the Company unless such authority is for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the renewed prior to such time: and order in which the names stand in the Register of Members.
e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred 5 To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction prior to the expiry of such authority which will or to a previously appointed proxy via the CREST may be executed wholly or partly after the system, the CREST message must be received by the expiration of such authority and may make a issuers agent RA10 by 12 noon on 16 May 2011.
For purchase of shares pursuant to any such this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be contract.
the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from Resolution 14 is an ordinary resolution, which relates to which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the the continuation of the Company as an investment trust.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be 14.
THAT the Company continue to carry on business as communicated to the proxy by other means.
Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST Members who have By Order of the Board appointed voting service provider s should contact FIL Investments International their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for Secretary assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For 8 April 2011 further information on CREST procedures, limitations and systems timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Notes: Regulations 2001.
In any case your proxy form must 1 A member of the Company entitled to attend and be received by the Companys Registrars no later vote at the Annual General Meeting may appoint a than 12 noon on 16 May 2011. proxy or proxies to attend and to speak and vote instead of him.
A member may appoint more than 6 All members are entitled to attend and vote at the one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting and ask questions.
The right provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the to vote at the meeting will be determined by rights attached to a different share or shares held by reference to the Register of Members as at 12 noon on 16 May 2011.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 55 Notice of Meeting 7 Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a 12 Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they person nominated under Section 146 of the appoint understand that by attending the meeting Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a they are expressly agreeing that they are willing to Nominated Person may, under an agreement receive any communications, including between him and the member by whom he was communications relating to the Companys securities, nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have made at the meeting.
someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy 13 It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he members of the Company under Section 527 of the may, under any such agreement, have a right to give Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required instructions to the member as to the exercise of to publish on its website a statement setting out any voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members matter relating to the audit of the Companys in relation to the appointment of proxies in note 2 accounts including the Auditors report and the above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the right described in that paragraph can only be Annual General Meeting or any circumstance exercised by members of the Company.
connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which the 8 If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy annual report and financial statements were laid.
The appointments, is given discretion as to how the votes business which may be dealt with at the Annual which are the subject of those proxies are cast and General Meeting includes any statement that the the voting rights in respect of those discretionary Company has been required under Section 527 of proxies, when added to the interests in the the Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
Companys securities already held by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding such number of voting 14 Under Section 338 and Section 338A of the rights that he has a notifiable obligation under the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will threshold requirements in those sections have the make the necessary notifications to the Company and right to require the Company i to give, to members the Financial Services Authority.
As a result, any of the Company entitled to receive notice of the member holding three per cent or more of the voting meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a be moved and is intended to be moved at the discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be voting rights and so would otherwise have a dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a notification obligation under the Disclosure and proposed resolution which may be properly included Transparency Rules, need not make separate in such business.
A resolution may properly be notification to the Company and the Financial moved or a matter may properly be included in the Services Authority.
business of the meeting unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective 9 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated whether by reason of inconsistency with any Securities Regulations 2001, the Company has enactment or the Companys constitution or specified that to be entitled to attend and vote at the otherwise, b it is defamatory of any person, or c it Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in determining the number of votes they may cast, hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify members must be entered on the register of the resolution of which notice is to be given or the members by 6.00pm on 16 May 2011.
If the meeting matter to be included in the business of the meeting, is adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must must be authorised by the person or persons making be entered on the register of members at 6.00pm on it, must be received by the Company not later than the day two days before the time fixed for the 25 March 2011, being the date six clear weeks before adjourned meeting, or, if the Company gives notice the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified included in the business of the meeting only must be in that notice.
accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
10 As at 7 March 2011 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document the Companys 15 No Director has a service contract with the Company.
issued share capital consisted of 49,144,986 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total 16 A copy of this notice and other information required number of voting rights in the Company as at by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is 7 March 2011 was 49,144,986. published on the Companys website at www.
co. uk its 11 Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise Registered Office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Page 56 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC The Manager of the Company FIL Investments International offers a range of options, so that you can invest in the way that is best for you.
As Fidelity European Values PLC is a company listed on the London Stock Exchange you can also buy its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA 250 as a top-up or 50 a month in a regular savings You may invest in the Companys shares through the plan.
Investing for children the Share Plan is a flexible and inexpensive way to invest on behalf of children.
All Fidelity ISA Individual Savings Account.
A Fidelity ISA you have to do is enter the initials or name of the child in can be an excellent way to get more from your the Designation Box on the Share Plan application form.
investment, because you will not have to pay income or capital gains tax on your returns.
Holding shares within the Share Plan allows you to reinvest your dividends and make further investments The maximum investment in a stocks and shares ISA is without having to pay brokerage fees.
The full amount may be able to set up a monthly savings plan and receive statements and valuations twice a year.
invested in a Stocks and Shares ISA, or you can invest up to half the ISA allowance in a Cash ISA and the balance in a Stocks and Shares ISA.
The minimum investment per Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or fund in the Fidelity ISA is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 as holding shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust a top-up, or 50 a month per company in a regular Share Plan other than stamp duty of 0.5%, which is currently payable on all share purchases.
However, if you savings plan.
invest through a Financial Adviser, there may be an initial Charges The standard initial charge for the Fidelity ISA charge of up to 3%.
is 3.5% but if you use the online application form you will BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES pay just 1.25% initial charge.
Fidelity pays stamp duty INFORMATION RIGHTS from the initial charge.
There may be an additional annual charge of 0.5% when you invest through a Registered shareholders of fully listed companies are Financial Adviser.
There are no other charges for the able to nominate the underlying beneficial owners of Fidelity ISA, but the Company pays an annual their shares to receive information rights.
You should contact your registered shareholder direct to request to management charge to Fidelity of 0.85% plus a receive your information rights.
Please note that performance related fee where applicable, as set out in the Annual Report.
beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive information rights under Section 146 of the Companies MOVING MONEY FROM A PREVIOUS ISA Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to If you have opened ISAs with other investment the registered holder of their shares rather than to the companies, you can move them into the Fidelity ISA and invest in Fidelity European Values PLC without losing any Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, or to the Company direct.
This is known as an ISA transfer and it can be a great way to give your portfolio a new focus, or to realign it with your current investment goals.
Please note The Manager of the Company FIL Investments that during the transfer your money will not be invested International offers a range of options, so that you can in the stock market so you may miss out on any growth invest in the way that is best for you.
As Fidelity European Values PLC is a company listed on the London during this time.
Stock Exchange you can also buy its shares through a Charges We do not apply an initial charge for a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
transfer into Fidelity European Values PLC.
You will also INVESTING ONLINE not have to pay any additional transfer costs.
However, Whilst you cannot use a Debit Card online to buy an ISA please bear in mind that your current ISA manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
If your old fund provider or Share Plan the application forms you need are all charges you a fee for leaving them, you can claim it back available via www.
You can also invest from us.
Just give us a call and we will help you sort it online in Fidelity European Values PLC shares via the share trading facility available via our website out.
Please note this offer does not apply to our share www.
The Share Dealing dealing service.
service, ShareNetwork, is provided by Xest which is the online trading division of Charles Stanley & Co Limited, a The annual management charge is as described above in leading London stockbroker.
ShareNetwork enables you the Investing inside an ISA section.
to buy or sell shares in any listed company during normal London Stock Exchange trading hours between 8am INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA and 4.30pm any working day.
Shares in ShareNetwork If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already can either be held direct or in an ISA, subject to the used your full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment normal ISA limits and restrictions.
You will be shown a Trust Share Plan offers you a low-cost and convenient live price and be able to buy or sell immediately.
If an way to put money into Fidelity European Values PLC.
order is placed when the market is closed, it will be The minimum investment is 1,000 as a lump sum, processed as soon as the market reopens.
Unlike many Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 57 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC online share dealing services, Fidelity ShareNetwork Investment Trusts, Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, gives you CREST personal membership for shares held Lower Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP direct.
This means that shares are registered on the Telephone: 01732 361144.
Fax: 01737 836 892 CREST system in your own name and everything relating www.
co. uk its to your shares dividends, annual reports and so on will be sent direct to you and you will be able to attend ONLINE SHAREHOLDER SERVICES SHARE PORTAL and vote at shareholder meetings in your own name.
Through the website of our Registrars, Capita Registrars, shareholders are able to manage their shareholding Personal CREST membership does not apply to ISA online by registering for the Share Portal, a free, secure, holdings which must be held in the name of the online access to your shareholding.
Facilities include: ISA managers nominee under ISA regulations.
There is no extra charge for opening a ShareNetwork ISA and Account Enquiry Allows shareholders to access their share purchases or sales are executed on line for only personal shareholding, including share transaction 9 per trade Stamp duty is also payable on purchases at history, dividend payment history and to obtain an the rate of 0.5%.
There is an account administration fee up-to-date shareholding valuation: of 5.10 per month, however many different shares you own and whatever their value.
Of course, you need to Amendment of Standing Data Allows shareholders remember that the value of tax savings and eligibility to to change their registered postal address and add, invest in an ISA will depend on your individual change or delete dividend mandate instructions.
circumstances, and all tax rules may change in the future.
Shareholders can also download from this site forms such as change of address, stock transfer and CONTACT INFORMATION dividend mandate forms as well as buy and sell Private investors: call free to 0800 41 41 10, 9am to shares in the Company.
To make use of any of these facilities, please log Financial advisers: call free to 0800 41 41 81, 8am to on to the Capita Registrars website at: 6pm, Monday to Friday.
co. uk its Should you have any queries in respect of the above Existing shareholders who have a specific query facilities, please do not hesitate to contact the Capita regarding their holding or need to provide update Share Portal helpline on 0871 664 0391 calls cost 10p information, for example a change of address, should plus network extras, overseas 44 20 8639 3367, or by contact the appropriate administrator: e-mail at shareportal@capita.
co. uk Holders of ordinary shares Capita Share Dealing Services Capita Registrars, Registrars to Fidelity European Values You can make use of a low cost share dealing service PLC, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, provided by Capita Registrars to buy or sell shares.
Telephone: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p Further information is available at www.
com, per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open 8.30am or by telephoning 0871 664 0454 calls cost 10p per 5.30pm Monday to Friday email: minute plus network extras.
Lines are open 8.30am ssd@capitaregistrars.
Using Capita Share Dealing Services you will also be able to deal in the shares of Details of individual shareholdings and other information other companies for which Capita acts as Registrar, can also be obtained from the Registrars website: provided you are already a shareholder in the relevant www.
com company, and that company offers the Share Deal facility to its shareholders.
Fidelity Share Plan investors Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan, Block C, Western Dividend Reinvestment Plan House, Lynchwood Business Park, Peterborough, This is a convenient way to build up your shareholding PE2 6BP.
Telephone: 0845 358 1107 calls to this number by using your cash dividends to buy more shares in the are charged at 3.95p per minute from a BT landline Company.
If you prefer to receive shares for your next dependent on the tariff.
Other telephone service dividend instead of cash please complete an application providers costs may vary.
com or call Capita IRG Trustees on 0871 644 0381 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras from the UK or 44 20 8639 Fidelity ISA investors 3402 from overseas.
Fidelity, using the freephone numbers given above, or by writing to: UK Customer Service, Fidelity International, Oakhill House, 130 Tonbridge Road, ShareGift Hildenborough, Tonbridge, Kent TN11 9DZ You may donate your shares to charity free of charge through ShareGift.
Further details are available at General enquiries should be made to Fidelity, the www.
Investment Manager and Secretary, at the Companys registered office: FIL Investments International Page 58 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC KEEPING YOU UPDATED If you hold Fidelity European Values PLC shares in an ISA, you will receive a yearly report detailing all of your transactions and the value of your shares.
Investors with the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan will receive statements and valuations twice a year.
The share price of Fidelity European Values PLC appears daily in The Financial Times.
Price and performance information is also available at fidelity.
co. uk its You can also obtain current price information by telephoning Fidelity on 0800 41 41 10 freephone or FT Cityline on 0905 817 1690 voice activated service calls charged at 60p per minute on a per second basis from a BT landline.
Charges from other telephone networks may vary.
FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm Monday to Saturday.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, next to St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk its or contacting your Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ISA is offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by FIL Investments International.
Both companies are regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is administered by BNP Paribas Securities Services and shares will be held in the name of Puddle Dock Nominees Limited.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity investment trusts are managed by FIL Investments International.
Fidelity only gives information about its own products and services and does not provide investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact a Financial Adviser.
Please note that the value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
For funds that invest in overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment.
Investing in small and emerging markets can be more volatile than older developed markets.
Reference in this document to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities, but is included for the purposes of illustration only.
Investors should also note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon by Fidelity.
Issued by Fidelity European Values PLC Fidelity, Fidelity International and the Pyramid logo are trademarks of FIL Limited.
The contents of websites referred to in this document do not form part of the Annual Report.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 59 Investment Trust Range of the Manager FIDELITY ASIAN VALUES PLC Capture Asias long-term growth potential from China to Korea Invests in equities primarily in South East Asia excluding Japan The portfolio is structured on a bottom-up basis, so stocks are selected on individual merit rather than purely by sector or market The portfolio manager focuses on companies with established market position FIDELITY CHINA SPECIAL SITUATIONS PLC Take advantage of a country rich with potential Invests primarily in securities issued by companies listed in China or Hong Kong and Chinese companies listed elsewhere Unconstrained by benchmark, the portfolio manager looks for companies that are undervalued by the market Taking a contrarian style, the portfolio contains stocks with growth or recovery potential FIDELITY JAPANESE VALUES PLC Tap into undervalued companies in a market known for innovation Invests mainly in small and medium sized companies for liquidity reasons it may also invest in larger companies The portfolio manager favours companies with superior mid to long term earnings growth potential It invests across a wide range of industries and sectors FIDELITY SPECIAL VALUES PLC Bring a new dimension to your portfolio with undervalued UK Stocks Invests primarily in small and medium-sized UK companies Up to 20% can be invested in Europe and other markets The portfolio manager is a value investor, naturally seeking out stocks that are often unloved and unfashionable at the current time The value of investments can go down as well as up and you may not get back the amount you originally invest.
The eligibility to invest in an ISA depends on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change.
Overseas investments are subject to currency fluctuations and emerging markets may be more volatile than established markets.
If youre unsure about the suitability of an investment, please contact an adviser.
Page 60 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 WARNING TO SHAREHOLDERS BOILER ROOM SCAMS Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA reported that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk register Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting www.
uk If the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.
uk Printed on FSC certified paper.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk: a paper made using 50% recycled fibre from genuine waste paper and 50% virgin fibre.
The unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this document, have been reduced to net zero through a verified, carbon offsetting project.
