Business review for harm caused to their respective staff and property.
Depending on the Regulation of the groups business service to be provided, an oil and gas industry service contract might also contain detailed provisions allocating risks and liabilities associated with BPs activities, including its oil and gas exploration and production, pipelines pollution and environmental damage, damage to a well or hydrocarbon and transportation, refining and marketing, petrochemicals production, reservoir and for claims from third parties or other losses.
Contractors will trading, alternative energy and shipping activities, are conducted in many also typically seek to cap their overall liability to the joint venture parties.
different countries and are therefore subject to a broad range of EU, US, The allocation of those risks and the provision of any cap on liability will be international, regional and local legislation and regulations, including determined following negotiation between the parties.
legislation that implements international conventions and protocols.
These In general, BP is required to pay income tax on income generated cover virtually all aspects of our activities and include matters such as from production activities whether under a licence or PSAs.
In addition, licence acquisition, production rates, royalties, environmental, health and depending on the area, BPs production activities may be subject to a range safety protection, fuel specifications and transportation, trading, pricing, of other taxes, levies and assessments, including special petroleum taxes anti-trust, export, taxes and foreign exchange.
The taxes imposed on oil and gas production profits and The terms and conditions of the leases, licences and contracts activities may be substantially higher than those imposed on other under which our oil and gas interests are held vary from country to country.
activities, particularly in Abu Dhabi, Angola, Egypt, Norway, the UK, the US, These leases, licences and contracts are generally granted by or entered Russia, South America and Trinidad & Tobago.
into with a government entity or state company and are sometimes entered into with private property owners.
These arrangements with Environmental regulation governmental or state entities usually take the form of licences or BP operates in more than 80 countries and is subject to a wide variety of production-sharing agreements PSAs.
Arrangements with private property environmental regulations concerning our products, operations and owners are usually in the form of leases.
Current and proposed fuel and product specifications, emission Licences or concessions give the holder the right to explore for controls and climate change programmes under a number of environmental and exploit a commercial discovery.
Under a licence, the holder bears the laws may have a significant effect on the production, sale and profitability risk of exploration, development and production activities and provides the of many of our products.
In principle, the licence holder is entitled to There also are environmental laws that require us to remediate and all production, minus any royalties that are payable in kind.
A licence holder restore areas damaged by the accidental or unauthorized release of is generally required to pay production taxes or royalties, which may be in hazardous materials or petroleum associated with our operations.
Less typically, BP may explore for and exploit hydrocarbons laws may apply to sites that BP currently owns or operates, sites that it under a service agreement with the host entity in exchange for previously owned or operated, or sites used for the disposal of its and other reimbursement of costs and or a fee paid in cash rather than production.
Provisions for environmental restoration and remediation PSAs entered into with a government entity or state company are made when a clean-up is probable and the amount of BPs legal generally require BP to provide all the financing and bear the risk of obligation can be reliably estimated.
The cost of future environmental exploration and production activities in exchange for a share of the remediation obligations is often inherently difficult to estimate.
production remaining after royalties, if any.
Uncertainties can include the extent of contamination, the appropriate In certain countries, separate licences are required for exploration corrective actions, technological feasibility and BPs share of liability.
See and production activities and, in certain cases, production licences are Financial statements Note 37 on page 199 for the amounts provided in limited to a portion of the area covered by the exploration licence.
Both respect of environmental remediation and decommissioning.
exploration and production licences are generally for a specified period of A number of pending or anticipated governmental proceedings time except for licences in the US, which typically remain in effect until against BP and certain subsidiaries under environmental laws could result production ceases.
The term of BPs licences and the extent to which in monetary sanctions of $100,000 or more.
We are also subject to these licences may be renewed vary by area.
environmental claims for personal injury and property damage alleging the Frequently, BP conducts its exploration and production activities in release of or exposure to hazardous substances.
The costs associated with joint ventures with other international oil companies, state companies or such future environmental remediation obligations, governmental private companies.
These joint ventures may be incorporated or proceedings and claims could be significant and may be material to the unincorporated ventures.
Whether incorporated or unincorporated, relevant results of operations in the period in which they are recognized.
We cannot agreements will set out each partys level of participation or ownership accurately predict the effects of future developments on the group, such as interest in the joint venture.
Conventionally, all costs, benefits, rights, stricter environmental laws or enforcement policies, or future events at our obligations, liabilities and risks incurred in carrying out joint venture facilities, and there can be no assurance that material liabilities and costs operations under a lease or licence are shared among the joint venture will not be incurred in the future.
For a discussion of the groups parties according to these agreed ownership interests.
Ownership of joint environmental expenditure see page 73. venture property and hydrocarbons to which the joint venture is entitled is also shared in these proportions.
To the extent that any liabilities arise, Greenhouse gas regulation whether to governments or third parties, or as between the joint venture Increasing concerns about climate change have led to a number of parties themselves, each joint venture party will generally be liable to meet international, national and regional measures to limit greenhouse gas GHG these in proportion to its ownership interest.
In many upstream operations, emissions: additional stricter measures can be expected in the future.
a party known as the operator will be appointed pursuant to a joint Current measures and developments affecting our businesses include operator agreement JOA to carry out day-to-day operations on behalf of the following: the joint venture.
The operator is typically one of the joint venture parties The Kyoto Protocol currently commits 38 ratified parties to meet and will carry out its duties either through its own staff, or by contracting emissions targets in the commitment period 2008 to 2012. out to third-party contractors or service providers.
BP acts as operator on The UN summit in Cancun in December 2010 where Parties to the UN behalf of joint ventures in a number of countries where we have exploration Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC reached formal and production activities.
agreement on a balanced package of measures to 2020.
The Cancun Frequently, work will be contracted out to third-party service Agreement recognizes that deep cuts in global GHG emissions are providers who have the relevant expertise not available within the joint required to hold the increase in global temperature to below 2C.
The relevant contract will specify the work to be done and the remuneration to be paid and will set out how major risks will be allocated between the joint venture and the service provider.
Typically, the joint venture and the contractor would respectively allocate responsibility for and provide reciprocal indemnities to each other 78 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review Signatories formally commit to carbon reduction targets or actions by A number of additional state and regional initiatives in the US will affect 2020.
Around 80 countries, including all the major economies and many our operations.
Of particular significance, California is seeking to reduce developing countries, have made such commitments.
Supporting those GHG emissions to 1990 levels by 2020 and to reduce the carbon efforts, principles were agreed for monitoring, verifying and reporting intensity of transport fuel sold in the state.
California implemented a emissions reductions: establishment of a green fund to help developing low-carbon fuel standard in 2010 and is on target to complete countries limit and adapt to climate change: and measures to protect emissions cap-and-trade, low carbon fuel, and other GHG regulations in forests and transfer low-carbon technology to poorer nations.
2011 for programme start up in January 2012.
The European Union EU Climate Action and Renewable Energy Canada has adopted an action plan to reduce emissions to 17% below Package which requires increased greenhouse gas reductions, 2005 levels by 2020 and the national government seeks a co-ordinated improvements in energy efficiency and increased renewable energy approach with the US on environmental and energy objectives.
use by 2020, as well as including the Revision of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme EU ETS directive.
This regulates approximately These measures can increase our production costs for certain products, one-fifth of our reported 2009 global CO emissions and can be increase demand for competing energy alternatives or products with 2 expected to require additional expenditure from 2013 when the next lower-carbon intensity and affect the sales and specifications of many of revision of the scheme EU ETS Phase 3 comes into effect.
changes in EU ETS will be a significant increase in the auctioning of allowances, the end of free allocations for electricity production, an US and EU regulations expanded scope covering additional commercial sectors and gases, Approximately 62% of our fixed assets are located in the US and the EU.
certain free allocations determined mainly by EU-wide sector US and EU environment, health and safety regulations significantly affect benchmarks as compensation for carbon leakage relocation to less BPs exploration and production, refining, marketing, transportation and regulated jurisdictions, and consideration of carbon capture and storage shipping operations.
Significant legislation and regulation in the US and the installations.
EU affecting our businesses and profitability includes the following: The EU Renewables Energy Directive RED requires that the share of energy from renewable sources in all forms of transport in 2020 be at United States least 10 % of the final consumption of energy in transport in that The Clean Air Act CAA regulates air emissions, permitting, fuel member state.
specifications and other aspects of our production, distribution and Article 7a of the revised EU Fuels Quality Directive requires fuel marketing activities.
Stricter limits on sulphur and benzene in fuels will suppliers to reduce the life cycle GHG emissions per unit of fuel and affect us in future, as will actions on GHG emissions.
Additionally, many energy supplied in certain transport markets from 2011. states have separate air emission laws in addition to the CAA.
BPs facilities in the UK are subject to the UK Carbon Reduction The Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the Energy Independence and Commitment Scheme CRC EES, which has recently been modified to Security Act of 2007 affect our US fuel markets by, among other things, end the recycling of revenues back to participants.
This can be imposing renewable fuel mandates and imposing GHG emissions expected to require additional expenditures for compliance.
thresholds for certain renewable fuels.
States such as California also Australia has committed to reduce its GHG emissions by between impose additional fuel carbon standards.
5-25% below 2000 levels by 2020, depending on the extent of The Clean Water Act CWA regulates wastewater and other effluent international action.
A proposed GHG emissions trading scheme CPRS discharges from BPs facilities, and BP is required to obtain discharge has been scrapped by the incoming coalition government, but a forum permits, install control equipment and implement operational controls the Multi Party Climate Change Committee has been established to and preventative measures.
investigate options for implementing a carbon price and to help build The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act RCRA regulates the consensus on Australias measures to address climate change.
generation, storage, transportation and disposal of wastes associated New Zealand has agreed to cut GHG emissions by 10-20% from 1990 with our operations and can require corrective action at locations where levels by 2020, subject to certain conditions.
New Zealands emission such wastes have been released.
trading scheme NZ ETS commenced on 1 July 2010 for transport The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and fuels, industrial processes, and stationary energy.
The agriculture sector Liability Act CERCLA, can, in certain circumstances, impose the entire 45% of New Zealands GHG emissions has been proposed to join the cost of investigation and remediation on a party who owned or NZ ETS in January 2015. operated a contaminated site or arranged for waste disposal at the site.
In the US, following the failure to pass comprehensive climate BP has incurred, or expects to incur, liability under the CERCLA or legislation, the US Environmental Protection Agency EPA is pursuing similar state laws, including costs attributed to insolvent or unidentified regulatory measures to address GHGs under the Clean Air Act CAA.
BP is also subject to claims for remediation costs under other In late 2009, the EPA released a GHG endangerment finding to federal and state laws, and to claims for natural resource damages establish its authority to regulate GHG emissions under the CAA.
under the CERCLA, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 OPA 90 and other Subsequent to this, EPA finalized regulations imposing light duty federal and state laws.
vehicle emissions standards for GHGs.
The Toxic Substances Control Act regulates BPs import, export and The EPA finalized the initial GHG mandatory reporting rule MRR in sale of new chemical products.
2009 and amended or proposed amendments to it several times The Occupational Safety and Health Act imposes workplace safety and during 2010. health requirements on our operations along with significant process The EPA finalized permitting requirements for new or modified large safety management obligations.
GHG sources in 2010, with these regulations taking effect in The Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act requires January 2011. emergency planning and hazardous substance release notification as The EPAs efforts to regulate GHG emissions through the CAA are well as public disclosure of our chemical usage and emissions.
subject to numerous legal challenges and active political debate so The US Department of Transportation DOT regulates the that the final content and scope of GHG regulation in the US remains transport of BPs petroleum products such as crude oil, gasoline uncertain.
The Marine Transportation Security Act MTSA, the DOT Hazardous Materials HAZMAT and the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standard CFATS regulations impose security compliance regulations on approximately 150 BP facilities.
These regulations require security vulnerability assessments, security mitigation plans and security upgrades, increasing our cost of operations.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 79 Business review The OPA 90 is implemented through regulation issued by the EPA, the US The EU Regulation on ozone depleting substances ODS, which Coast Guard, the DOT, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration implements the Montreal Protocol on ODS was most recently revised and various states: Alaska and the west coast states are currently the most in 2009.
It requires BP to reduce the use of ODS and phase out use of demanding.
There is an expectation that the OPA 90 and its regulations will certain ODS substances.
BP continues to replace ODS in refrigerants become more stringent in 2011.
The impact will likely be more rigorous and or equipment, in the EU and elsewhere, in accordance with the preparedness requirements the ability to respond over a longer period to Protocol and related legislation.
Methyl bromide an ODS is a minor larger spills, including the demonstration of that preparedness.
There will by-product in the production of purified terephthalic acid in our be additional costs associated with this increased regulation.
The progressive phase-out of methyl we expect more unannounced exercises and potential penalties for any bromide uses may result in future pressure to reduce our emissions of failure to demonstrate required preparedness even without any methyl bromide.
The EU Fuels Quality Directive affects our production and marketing of The US refineries of BP Products North America Inc. BP Products transport fuels.
Revisions adopted in 2009 mandate reductions in the are subject to a consent decree with the EPA to resolve alleged violations life cycle GHG emissions per unit of energy as described in Greenhouse of the CAA and implementation of the decrees requirements continues.
gas regulation above, and tighter environmental fuel quality standards A 2009 amendment to the decree resolves remaining alleged air violations for petrol and diesel.
at the Texas City refinery through the payment of a $12-million civil fine, a The EU Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals $6-million supplemental environmental project and enhanced CAA REACH Regulation requires registration of chemical substances, compliance measures estimated to cost approximately $150 million.
The manufactured in, or imported into, the EU in quantities greater than fine has been paid and BP Products is implementing the other provisions.
1 tonne per annum per legal entity together with the submission of For further disclosures relating to the Texas City refinery, please see Legal relevant hazard and risk data.
Having complied with the 2008 preproceedings on page 132. registration requirements, we have now completed full registration Various environmental groups and the EPA have challenged certain of all the substances that we were required to submit by the aspects of the operating permit issued by the Indiana Department of regulatory deadline of 1 December 2010.
This first phase covered Environmental Management IDEM for our upgrades to the Whiting high tonnage high hazard chemicals: chemicals with lower refinery.
In response to these challenges, the IDEM has reviewed the production import tonnage materials will be subject to registration in permits and responded formally to the EPA.
The EPA, either directly or the period 2013-2018.
REACH affects our refining, petrochemicals, through the IDEM, can cause the permit to be modified, reissued or, in lubricants and other manufacturing or trading import operations.
extreme circumstances, terminated or revoked.
BP is in discussions with the EPA, the IDEM and certain environmental groups over these issues and In addition, Europe has adopted the UN Global Harmonization System for alleged CAA violations at the Whiting refinery.
Settlement negotiations hazard classification and labelling of chemicals and products through the continue in an effort to resolve these matters.
BP is also in settlement Classification Labelling and Packaging CLP Regulation.
This requires us to discussions with the EPA relating to alleged violations at the Toledo, Carson assess the hazards of all of our chemicals and products against new criteria and Cherry Point refineries.
and will result in significant changes to warning labels and material safety data sheets.
All our European Material Safety Data Sheets will need to be European Union updated to include both REACH and CLP information.
The compliance BPs operations in the EU are subject to a number of current and proposed deadline for substances was 1 December 2010 and maintaining regulatory requirements that affect our operations and profitability.
These compliance will be integrated into the operating processes of our include: manufacturing and marketing businesses in Europe.
We are also The EU Climate Action and Renewable Energy Package and the required to notify hazard classifications to the European Chemicals Emissions Trading Scheme ETS Directive see Greenhouse gas Agency for inclusion in a publicly available inventory of hazardous regulation on page 78. chemicals before 3 January 2011.
The CLP will also apply to mixtures The EU European Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control IPPC e. g. lubricants by 2015.
Directive imposes a unified environmental permit requirement on our International marine fuel regulations under International Maritime major European sites, including refineries and chemical facilities, and Organization IMO and International Convention for the Prevention of requires assessments and upgrades to our facilities.
A proposed Pollution from Ships MARPOL regimes impose stricter sulphur Industrial Emission Directive would replace the IPPC Directive.
It would emission restrictions on ships in EU ports and inland waterways and merge several existing industrial emission directives, impose tighter the North and Baltic seas beginning in 2010 and with a stricter global emission standards for large combustion plants and be more cap on marine sulphur emissions beginning in 2012.
Further reductions prescriptive as to the emission limits that have to be achieved by Best are to be phased in thereafter.
These restrictions require the use of Available Techniques BAT.
When finally transposed into national compliant heavy fuel oil HFO or distillate, or the installation of legislation it will result in requirements for further emission reductions abatement technologies on ships.
These regulations will place at our EU sites.
additional costs on refineries producing marine fuel, including costs to The European Commission EC Thematic Strategy on Air Pollution and dispose of sulphur, as well as increased CO emissions and energy 2 the related work on revisions to the Gothenburg Protocol and National costs for additional refining.
Emissions Ceiling Directive NECD, will establish national ceilings for In the UK, significant health and safety legislation affecting BP includes emissions of a variety of air pollutants in order to achieve EU-wide the Health and Safety at Work Act and regulations and the Control of health and environmental improvement targets.
The EC is also Major Accident Hazards Regulations.
considering the use of a NO and SO trading scheme as a tool to X 2 achieve emission reductions.
This may result in requirements for further emission reductions at our EU sites.
80 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
