Additional information for shareholders Additional information for shareholders Material contracts Taxation On 6 August 2010, BP entered into a trust agreement with This section describes the material US federal income tax and UK taxation John S Martin, Jr and Kent D Syverud, as individual trustees, and Citigroup consequences of owning ordinary shares or ADSs to a US holder who Trust-Delaware, N. A. as corporate trustee the Trust Agreement which holds the ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax purposes.
It established the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust the Trust to be funded in does not apply, however, to members of special classes of holders subject the amount of $20 billion the trust fund over the period to the fourth to special rules and holders that, directly or indirectly, hold 10% or more of quarter of 2013.
The trust fund is available to satisfy legitimate individual the companys voting stock.
In addition, if a partnership holds the shares or and business claims administered by the Gulf Coast Claims Facility GCCF, ADSs, the US federal income tax treatment of a partner will generally state and local government claims resolved by BP, final judgments and depend on the status of the partner and the tax treatment of the settlements, state and local response costs, and natural resource damages partnership and may not be described fully below.
Fines, penalties and claims administration costs are not A US holder is any beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that covered by the trust fund.
Under the terms of the Trust Agreement, BP has are for US federal income tax purposes i a citizen or resident of the US, no right to access the funds once they have been contributed to the trust ii a US domestic corporation, iii an estate whose income is subject to US fund.
BP will receive funds from the trust fund only upon its expiration, if federal income taxation regardless of its source, or iv a trust if a US court there are any funds remaining at that point.
BP has the authority under the can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration and Trust Agreement to present certain resolved claims, including natural one or more US persons are authorized to control all substantial decisions resource damages claims and state and local response claims, to the Trust of the trust.
for payment, by providing the trustees with all the required documents This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as establishing that such claims are valid under the Trust Agreement.
However, amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations any such payments can only be made on the authority of the trustee and thereunder, published rulings and court decisions, and the taxation laws of any funds distributed are paid directly to the claimants, not to BP.
The Trust the UK, all as currently in effect, as well as the income tax convention Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of Delaware.
between the US and the UK that entered into force on 31 March 2003 the On 30 September 2010, BP entered a pledge and collateral Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
agreement in favour of John S Martin, Jr and Kent D Syverud the Pledge This section is further based in part on the representations of the Agreement, which pledged certain Gulf of Mexico assets as collateral for Depositary and assumes that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement the trust fund funding obligation.
The pledged collateral consists of an and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
overriding royalty interest in oil and gas production of BPs Thunder Horse, For purposes of the Treaty and the estate and gift tax Convention Atlantis, Mad Dog, Great White and Mars, Ursa and Na Kika assets in the the Estate Tax Convention, and for US federal income tax and UK Gulf of Mexico.
A wholly-owned company called Verano Collateral Holdings taxation purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as the LLC Verano has been created to hold the overriding royalty interest, which owner of the companys ordinary shares represented by those ADRs.
is capped at $1.25 billion per quarter and $17 billion in total.
Verano has Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADRs and ADRs for ordinary shares pledged the overriding royalty interest to the Trust as collateral for BPs generally will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK taxation remaining contribution obligations to the Trust.
BP contributed a further other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax, as described below.
$2 billion to the trust fund since this arrangement was established, thereby Investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding the US reducing the amount of the pledge to $15 billion at the end of the year.
An federal, state and local, the UK and other tax consequences of owning and event of default under the Pledge Agreement will arise if BP fails to make disposing of ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances, any contribution under the Trust Agreement when due or otherwise fails to and in particular whether they are eligible for the benefits of the Treaty.
observe certain other obligations, subject to specified cure periods.
Following an event of default, the trustees will be entitled to exercise all Taxation of dividends remedies as secured parties in respect of the collateral, including receipt of UK taxation royalty interests from the pledged assets, having all or part of the limited Under current UK taxation law, no withholding tax will be deducted from liability company interests registered in the trustees name and selling the dividends paid by the company, including dividends paid to US holders.
A collateral at public or private sale.
The Pledge Agreement is governed by the shareholder that is a company resident for tax purposes in the UK or laws of the State of Texas.
trading in the UK through a permanent establishment generally will not be taxable in the UK on a dividend it receives from the company.
A shareholder who is an individual resident for tax purposes in the UK Exchange controls is subject to UK tax but entitled to a tax credit on cash dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs of the company equal to one-ninth of the There are currently no UK foreign exchange controls or restrictions on cash dividend.
remittances of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of the companys operations.
US federal income taxation There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or under A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross amount the companys Articles of Association, restricting the right of non-resident of any dividend paid by the company out of its current or accumulated or foreign owners to hold or vote BP ordinary or preference shares in the earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2013 that constitute qualified dividend income will be taxable to the holder at a maximum tax rate of 15%, provided that the holder has a holding period in the ordinary shares or ADSs of more than 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and meets other holding period requirements.
Dividends paid by the company with respect to the shares or ADSs will generally be qualified dividend income.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 135 Additional information for shareholders As noted above in UK taxation, a US holder will not be subject to UK Under the Treaty, individuals who are residents of either the UK or the US withholding tax.
A US holder will include in gross income for US federal and who have been residents of the other jurisdiction the US or the UK, as income tax purposes the amount of the dividend actually received from the the case may be at any time during the six years immediately preceding company and the receipt of a dividend will not entitle the US holder to a the relevant disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs may be subject to tax with foreign tax credit.
respect to capital gains arising from a disposition of ordinary shares or For US federal income tax purposes, a dividend must be included in ADSs of the company not only in the jurisdiction of which the holder is income when the US holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the resident at the time of the disposition but also in the other jurisdiction.
Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the dividend, and will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction US federal income taxation generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received from A US holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs other US corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources outside will recognize a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes the US, and generally will be passive category income or, in the case equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realized of certain US holders, general category income, each of which is and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the ordinary shares treated separately for purposes of computing a US holders foreign or ADSs.
Capital gain of a non-corporate US holder that is recognized in tax credit limitation.
taxable years beginning before 1 January 2013 is generally taxed at a The amount of the dividend distribution on the ordinary shares or maximum rate of 15% if the holders holding period for such ordinary ADSs that is paid in pounds sterling will be the US dollar value of the shares or ADSs exceeds one year.
The gain or loss will generally be income pounds sterling payments made, determined at the spot pounds sterling or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax credit limitation US dollar rate on the date the dividend distribution is includible in income, purposes.
The deductibility of capital losses is subject to limitations.
regardless of whether the payment is, in fact, converted into US dollars.
We do not believe that ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations stock of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for US federal during the period from the date the pounds sterling dividend payment is income tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that is includible in income to the date the payment is converted into US dollars made annually and thus is subject to change.
If we are treated as a PFIC, will be treated as ordinary income or loss and will not be eligible for the unless a US holder elects to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis 15% tax rate on qualified dividend income.
The gain or loss generally will with respect to ordinary shares or ADSs, gain realized on the sale or other be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax credit disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs would in general not be treated as limitation purposes.
Instead, a US holder would be treated as if he or she had Distributions in excess of the companys earnings and profits, as realized such gain ratably over the holding period for ordinary shares or determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a return ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such of capital to the extent of the US holders basis in the ordinary shares or year to which the gain was allocated, in addition to which an interest ADSs and thereafter as capital gain, subject to taxation as described in charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year would apply.
Taxation of capital gains US federal income taxation.
Certain excess distributions would be similarly treated if we were In addition, the taxation of dividends may be subject to the rules for treated as a PFIC.
passive foreign investment companies PFIC, described below under Taxation of capital gains US federal income taxation.
Distributions made Additional tax considerations by a PFIC do not constitute qualified dividend income and are not eligible Scrip Dividend Programme for the 15% tax rate.
The company has introduced an optional Scrip Dividend Programme, wherein holders of ordinary shares or ADSs may elect to receive any Taxation of capital gains dividends in the form of new fully-paid ordinary shares or ADSs of the UK taxation company, instead of cash.
Please consult your tax adviser for the A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain on consequences to you.
the disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs if the US holder is i a citizen of the US resident or ordinarily resident in the UK, ii a US domestic corporation UK inheritance tax resident in the UK by reason of its business being managed or controlled in The Estate Tax Convention applies to inheritance tax.
ADSs held by an the UK or iii a citizen of the US or a corporation that carries on a trade or individual who is domiciled for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency or, in respect in the US and is not for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention a of corporations for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January national of the UK will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the 2003, through a permanent establishment, and that have used, held, or individuals death or on transfer during the individuals lifetime unless, acquired the ordinary shares or ADSs for the purposes of such trade, among other things, the ADSs are part of the business property of a profession or vocation of such branch, agency or permanent establishment.
permanent establishment situated in the UK used for the performance of However, such persons may be entitled to a tax credit against their US independent personal services.
In the exceptional case where ADSs are federal income tax liability for the amount of UK capital gains tax or UK subject to both inheritance tax and US federal gift or estate tax, the Estate corporation tax on chargeable gains as the case may be that is paid in Tax Convention generally provides for tax payable in the US to be credited respect of such gain.
against tax payable in the UK or for tax paid in the UK to be credited Under the Treaty, capital gains on dispositions of ordinary shares or against tax payable in the US, based on priority rules set forth in the ADSs generally will be subject to tax only in the jurisdiction of residence of Estate Tax Convention.
the relevant holder as determined under both the laws of the UK and the US and as required by the terms of the Treaty.
136 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
