Additional information for shareholders A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP was in place for the fourth-quarter Under OPA 90, BP E&P has been designated as one of the responsible dividend paid in March 2010, allowing holders of BP ordinary shares to parties for the oil spill resulting from the Incident.
Accordingly, BP E&P is elect to reinvest the net cash dividend in shares purchased on the London one of the parties that the US government alleges is financially responsible Stock Exchange.
Following shareholder approval at BPs AGM on 15 April for the clean-up of the spill and for economic damages as provided by OPA 2010, a Scrip Dividend Programme Programme was introduced and the 90.
In addition, pursuant to OPA 90, the US Coast Guard has requested DRIP was withdrawn.
The Programme enables BP ordinary shareholders reimbursement from BP and the other responsible parties for its costs of and ADS holders to elect to receive new fully paid ordinary shares in BP or responding to the Incident, and BP has paid all amounts so billed to date.
ADSs in the case of ADS holders instead of cash.
The operation of the Continuing requests for cost reimbursement are expected from the US Programme is always subject to the directors decision to make the scrip Coast Guard and other governmental authorities.
In addition, BP is offer available in respect of any particular dividend.
Should the directors participating with federal and state trustees in a co-operative assessment decide not to offer the scrip in respect of any particular dividend, cash will of potential natural resource damages associated with the spill.
Under automatically be paid instead.
OPA 90, the US government alleges that BP E&P is one of the parties Future dividends will be dependent on future earnings, the financial financially responsible for paying the reasonable assessment costs incurred condition of the group, the Risk factors set out on pages 27-32 and other by these trustees as well as natural resource damages that result from the matters that may affect the business of the group set out in Our strategy Incident.
on pages 19-20 and in Liquidity and capital resources on page 64.
BP E&P has established and committed to fund the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust, a $20-billion trust fund to pay costs and satisfy legitimate claims.
BP E&P contributed $5 billion to the trust fund in 2010.
Legal proceedings This will be supplemented by additional payments of $1.25 billion per quarter until a total of $20 billion has been paid into the trust fund.
While Proceedings and investigations relating to the the trust fund is building, BP E&P has pledged collateral consisting of an Gulf of Mexico oil spill overriding royalty interest in oil and gas production from certain assets in BP p. l. c. BP Exploration & Production Inc. BP E&P and various other BP the Gulf of Mexico sufficient at any time to secure the difference between entities collectively referred to as BP are among the companies named as the amount deposited as of that date and $20 billion.
The establishment of defendants in more than 400 private civil lawsuits resulting from the this trust does not represent a cap on BPs liabilities, and BP does not 20 April 2010 explosions and fire on the semi-submersible rig Deepwater admit to a liability of this amount.
The trust fund will pay claims Horizon and resulting oil spill the Incident and further actions are likely to administered by the GCCF, state and local government claims resolved by be brought.
BP E&P is lease operator of Mississippi Canyon, Block 252 in BP, final judgments, settlements, state and local response costs, and the Gulf of Mexico, where the Deepwater Horizon was deployed at the natural resource damages and related costs.
Payments from the trust fund time of the Incident, and holds a 65% working interest.
The other working will be made upon adjudication or resolution of claims or the final interest owners are Anadarko Petroleum Company and MOEX Offshore determination of other costs covered by the account.
There will be a sunset 2007 LLC.
The Deepwater Horizon, which was owned and operated by on the trust fund, and funds, if any, remaining once the claims process has certain affiliates of Transocean, Ltd. Transocean, sank on 22 April 2010. been completed will revert to BP E&P.
The pending lawsuits and or claims arising from the Incident have been BP is subject to a number of investigations related to the Incident brought in US federal and state courts.
Plaintiffs include individuals, by numerous agencies of the US government.
On 27 April 2010, the US corporations and governmental entities and many of the lawsuits purport to Coast Guard and the Minerals Management Service renamed the Bureau be class actions.
The lawsuits assert, among others, claims for personal of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement in June 2010 injury in connection with the Incident itself and the response to it, and convened a joint investigation of the Incident by establishing a Marine wrongful death, commercial or economic injury, breach of contract and Board of Investigation aimed at determining the causes of the Incident and violations of statutes.
The lawsuits seek various remedies including recommending safety improvements.
BP was designated as one of several compensation to injured workers and families of deceased workers, Parties in Interest in the investigation.
recovery for commercial losses and property damage, claims for On 21 May 2010, President Obama signed an executive order environmental damage, remediation costs, injunctive relief, treble damages establishing the National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil and punitive damages.
Purported classes of claimants include residents of Spill and Offshore Drilling National Commission to examine and report on, the states of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Texas, Tennessee, within six months of the date of the Commissions first meeting, the Kentucky, Georgia and South Carolina, property owners and rental agents, relevant facts and circumstances concerning the causes of the Gulf of fishermen and persons dependent on the fishing industry, charter boat Mexico oil spill incident and develop options for guarding against, and owners and deck hands, marina owners, gasoline distributors, shipping mitigating the impact of, oil spills associated with offshore drilling, taking interests, restaurant and hotel owners and others who are property and or into consideration the environmental, public health, and economic effects business owners alleged to have suffered economic loss.
On 11 January 2011, the National Commission published derivative lawsuits have also been filed in US federal and state courts its final report on the causes of the Incident and its recommendations for against various current and former officers and directors of BP alleging, policy and regulatory changes for offshore drilling.
On 17 February 2011, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, gross mismanagement, the National Commissions Chief Counsel published a separate report on abuse of control and waste of corporate assets.
Purported class action his investigation that provides additional information about the causes of lawsuits have also been filed in US federal courts against BP entities and the Incident.
various current and former officers and directors alleging securities fraud claims and violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ERISA.
In addition, BP has been named in several lawsuits alleging claims under the Racketeer-Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act RICO.
In August 2010, many of the lawsuits pending in federal court were consolidated by the Federal Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation into two multi-district litigation proceedings, one in federal court in Houston for the securities, derivative and ERISA cases and another in federal court in New Orleans for the remaining cases.
Since late September, most of the Deepwater Horizon related cases have been pending before these courts.
On 18 February 2011, certain Transocean affiliates filed a third party complaint against BP, the US government, and other corporations involved in the Incident, thereby naming those entities as formal parties in Transoceans Limitation of Liability action pending in federal court in New Orleans.
130 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Additional information for shareholders Additional information for shareholders On 7 July 2010, the US Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board penalties and fines for violating state or local statutes.
The Louisiana CSB informed BP of its intent to conduct an investigation of the Incident.
Department of Environmental Quality has issued an administrative order The investigation is focused on the 20 April 2010 explosions and fire, and seeking injunctive relief and environmental civil penalties under state law, not the resulting oil spill or response efforts.
The CSB is expected to issue and several local governments in Louisiana have filed suits under state within two years several investigation reports that will seek to identify the wildlife statutes seeking penalties for damage to wildlife as a result of the alleged root cause s of the Incident, and recommend improvements to BP spill.
On 10 December 2010, the Mississippi Department of Environmental and industry practices and to regulatory programmes to prevent recurrence Quality issued a Complaint and Notice of Violation alleging violations of and mitigate potential consequences.
Also, at the request of the several State environmental statutes.
Department of the Interior, the National Academy of Engineering National On 15 September 2010, three Mexican states bordering the Gulf of Research Council established a Committee Committee to examine the Mexico Veracruz, Quintana Roo, and Tamaulipas filed lawsuits in federal performance of the technologies and practices involved in the probable court in Texas against several BP entities.
These lawsuits allege that the oil causes of the explosion, including the performance of the blowout spill harmed their tourism, fishing, and commercial shipping industries preventer and related technology features, and to identify and recommend resulting in, among other things, diminished tax revenue, damaged natural available technology, industry best practices, best available standards, and resources and the environment, and caused the states to incur expenses in other measures in the US and around the world related to oil and gas preparing a response to the oil spill.
deepwater exploratory drilling and well completion to avoid future BPs potential liabilities resulting from pending and future claims, occurrence of such events.
On 17 November 2010 the Committee issued lawsuits and enforcement actions relating to the Incident, together with the its interim report setting forth the committees preliminary findings and potential cost of implementing remedies sought in the various proceedings, observations on various actions and decisions including well design, cannot be fully estimated at this time but they have had and are expected cementing operations, well monitoring, and well control actions.
The to have a material adverse impact on the groups business, competitive interim report also considers management, oversight, and regulation of position, cash flows, prospects, liquidity, shareholder returns and or offshore operations.
We expect that the Committee will issue its final implementation of its strategic agenda, particularly in the US.
Furthermore, report that presents the Committees final analysis, including findings and BP has taken a pre-tax charge in its income statement of $40.9 billion in or recommendations, by 1 June 2011 a pre-publication version of report, total during 2010, and these potential liabilities may continue to have a with further peer review and a final published version to follow by 30 material adverse effect on the groups results and financial condition.
A second, unrelated National Academies Committee will be looking Other legal proceedings at the methodologies available for assessing spill impacts on ecosystems in From 25 October 2007 to 23 October 2010, BP America Inc. BP America the Gulf of Mexico, and a summary of the known effects of the spill, the was subject to oversight by an independent monitor, who had authority to impacts in the context of stresses from other human activities in the Gulf, investigate and report alleged violations of the US Commodity Exchange and identification of research and monitoring needs to more fully Act or US Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC regulations and understand the effects of the spill and gauge progress towards recovery to recommend corrective action.
The appointment of the independent and restoration.
On 14 June 2010, the US Coast Guard initiated an Incident monitor was a condition of the deferred prosecution agreement DPA Specific Preparedness Review ISPR to examine the implementation and entered into with the DoJ on 25 October 2007 relating to allegations that effectiveness of the response and recovery operations relating to the spill.
BP America manipulated the price of February 2004 TET physical propane We understand that the ISPR process has been completed and a Report and attempted to manipulate the price of TET propane in April 2003 and the Report has been generated: however the Report has not yet been made companion consent order with the CFTC, entered the same day, resolving publicly available.
We expect that the Report will be made publicly available all criminal and civil enforcement matters pending at that time concerning sometime in the first quarter of 2011.
Additionally, BP representatives have propane trading by BP Products North America Inc. BP Products.
The DPA appeared before multiple committees of the US Congress that have been required BP Americas and certain of its affiliates continued co-operation conducting inquiries into the Incident.
BP has provided documents and with the US governments investigation and prosecution of the trades in written information in response to requests by these committees and will question, as well as other trading matters that may arise.
The DPA had a continue to do so.
See Risk factors Compliance and control risks on term of three years but could be extended by two additional one-year page 29. periods, and contemplated dismissal of all charges at the end of the term On 1 June 2010, the US Department of Justice DoJ announced following the DoJs determination that BP America has complied with the that it is conducting an investigation into the Incident encompassing terms of the DPA.
The initial three year term has expired and the DoJs possible violations of US civil or criminal laws.
The United States filed a civil motion to dismiss the action underlying the DPA was granted on complaint against BP E&P and others on 15 December 2010.
Investigations into BPs trading activities continue to be seeks a declaration of liability under OPA 90 and civil penalties under the conducted from time to time.
The US Federal Energy Regulatory Clean Water Act.
Paragraph 92 of the complaint sets forth a purported Commission FERC and the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission reservation of rights on behalf of the United States to amend the CFTC are currently investigating several BP entities regarding trading in complaint or file additional complaints seeking various remedies under the next-day natural gas market at Houston Ship Channel during October various laws and regulations, including but not limited to eight specifically and November 2008.
The FERC Office of Enforcement staff notified BP on mentioned federal statutes.
Paragraph 92 of the complaint likewise 12 November 2010 of their preliminary conclusions relating to alleged contains a similar reservation of rights regarding the conduct of market manipulation in violation of 18 C. F. R. Sec.
The FERC staff will administrative proceedings under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, determine whether to pursue the investigation, to close the investigation, 43 U. S. C. 1301 et seq.
and the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty or to seek authority to pursue resolution by settlement.
On 30 November Management Act, 30 U. S. C. 1701 et seq.
2010, CFTC Enforcement staff also provided BP with a notice of intent to Citizens groups have also filed either lawsuits or notices of intent to recommend charges based on the same conduct alleging that BP engaged file lawsuits seeking civil penalties and injunctive relief under the Clean in attempted market manipulation in violation of Section 6 c, 6 d, and 9 a Water Act and other environmental statutes.
Other US federal agencies 2 of the Commodity Exchange Act.
BP submitted responses to both may commence investigations relating to the Incident.
The SEC and DoJ notices on 23 December 2010 providing a detailed response that it did not are investigating securities matters arising in relation to the Incident.
engage in any inappropriate or unlawful activity.
Private complaints, The Attorney General for the State of Alabama has filed a lawsuit including class actions, were also filed against BP Products and affiliates seeking damages for alleged economic and environmental harms, including alleging propane price manipulation.
The complaints contained allegations natural resource damages, as a result of the Incident.
It is possible that the similar to those in the CFTC action as well as of violations of federal and State Attorneys General of Louisiana, Mississippi, Florida, Texas or other state antitrust and unfair competition laws and state consumer protection states and or local governments, such as coastal municipalities also may statutes and unjust enrichment.
The complaints sought actual and punitive initiate investigations and bring civil or criminal actions seeking damages, damages and injunctive relief.
Settlement in both groups of the class BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 131 Additional information for shareholders actions the direct and indirect purchasers has received final court approval.
A shareholder derivative action was filed against several current and former Two independent lawsuits from class members who opted out of the direct BP officers and directors based on alleged violations of the CAA and OSHA purchaser settlement are still pending.
regulations at the Texas City refinery subsequent to the March 2005 On 23 March 2005, an explosion and fire occurred in the explosion and fire.
An investigation by a special committee of BPs board isomerization unit of BP Products Texas City refinery as the unit was into the shareholder allegations has been completed and the committee coming out of planned maintenance.
Fifteen workers died in the incident has recommended that the allegations do not warrant action by BP against and many others were injured.
BP Products has resolved all civil injury the officers and directors.
BP has filed a motion to dismiss the shareholder claims arising from the March 2005 incident.
In March 2007, the US Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation On 29 November 2007, BP Exploration Alaska Inc. BPXA entered Board CSB issued a report on the incident.
The report contained into a criminal plea agreement with the DoJ relating to leaks of crude oil in recommendations to the Texas City refinery and to the board of directors of March and August 2006.
BPXAs guilty plea, to a misdemeanour violation of BP.
In May 2007, BP responded to the CSBs recommendations.
BP and the US Water Pollution Control Act, included a term of three years the CSB will continue to discuss BPs responses with the objective of the probation.
On 29 November 2009 a spill of approximately 360 barrels of CSBs agreeing to close out its recommendations.
crude oil and produced water was discovered beneath a line running from a On 25 October 2007, the DoJ announced that it had entered into a well pad to the Lisburne Processing Center in Prudhoe Bay, Alaska.
On criminal plea agreement with BP Products related to the March 2005 17 November 2010, the US Probation Officer filed a petition in federal explosion and fire.
On 4 February 2008, BP Products pleaded guilty, district court to revoke BPXAs probation based on an allegation that the pursuant to the plea agreement, to one felony violation of the risk Lisburne event was a criminal violation of state or federal law.
A hearing is management planning regulations promulgated under the US Clean Air Act scheduled for the week of 25 April 2011.
On 12 May 2008, a BP p. l. c. CAA and on 12 March 2009, the court accepted the plea agreement.
In shareholder filed a consolidated complaint alleging violations of federal connection with the plea agreement, BP Products paid a $50-million securities law on behalf of a putative class of BP p. l. c. shareholders against criminal fine and was sentenced to three years probation which is set to BP p. l. c. BPXA, BP America, and four officers of the companies, based on expire on 12 March 2012.
Compliance with a 2005 US Occupational Safety alleged misrepresentations concerning the integrity of the Prudhoe Bay and Health Administration OSHA settlement agreement 2005 pipeline before its shutdown on 6 August 2006.
On 8 February 2010, the Agreement and a 2006 agreed order entered into by BP Products with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals accepted BPs appeal from a decision of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality TCEQ are conditions of lower court granting in part and denying in part BPs motion to dismiss the probation.
Briefing is complete and we await oral argument.
The Texas Office of Attorney General, on behalf of TCEQ, has filed a On 31 March 2009, the DoJ filed a complaint against BPXA seeking petition against BP Products asserting certain air emissions and reporting civil penalties and injunctive relief relating to the 2006 oil releases.
The violations at the Texas City refinery from 2005 to 2010, including in relation complaint alleges that BPXA violated various federal environmental and to the March 2005 explosion and fire.
BP is contesting the petition in a pipeline safety statutes and associated regulations in connection with the pending civil proceeding.
In March 2010, TCEQ notified the DoJ of its belief two releases and its maintenance and operation of North Slope pipelines.
that certain of the alleged violations may violate the 25 October 2007 plea The State of Alaska also filed a complaint on 31 March 2009 against BPXA agreement.
seeking civil penalties and damages relating to these events.
The complaint On 9 August 2010, the Texas Attorney General filed a separate alleges that the two releases and BPXAs corrosion management practices petition against BP Products asserting emissions violations relating to a violated various statutory, contractual and common law duties to the State, 6 April 2010 compressor fire and subsequent flaring event at the Texas City resulting in penalty liability, damages for lost royalties and taxes, and liability refinerys ultracracker unit.
This emissions event is also the subject of a for punitive damages.
number of civil suits by many area workers and residents alleging personal Approximately 200 lawsuits were filed in state and federal courts in injury and property damages and seeking substantial damages.
Alaska seeking compensatory and punitive damages arising out of the In September 2009, BP Products filed a petition to clarify specific Exxon Valdez oil spill in Prince William Sound in March 1989.
Most of those required actions and deadlines under the 2005 Agreement with OSHA.
That suits named Exxon now ExxonMobil, Alyeska Pipeline Service Company agreement resolved citations issued in connection with the March 2005 Alyeska, which operates the oil terminal at Valdez, and the other oil Texas City refinery explosion.
OSHA denied BP Products petition.
Alyeska initially responded to the spill until In October 2009 OSHA issued citations to the Texas City refinery the response was taken over by Exxon.
BP owns a 46.9% interest reduced seeking a total of $87.4 million in civil penalties for alleged violations of the during 2001 from 50% by a sale of 3.1% to Phillips in Alyeska through a 2005 Agreement and alleged process safety management violations.
subsidiary of BP America Inc. and briefly indirectly owned a further 20% BP Products contested these citations.
These matters were subsequently interest in Alyeska following BPs combination with Atlantic Richfield.
transferred for review to the Occupational Safety and Health OSH Review Alyeska and its owners have settled all the claims against them under Commission.
Exxon has indicated that it may file a claim for contribution A settlement agreement between BP Products and OSHA in against Alyeska for a portion of the costs and damages that it has incurred.
August 2010 2010 Agreement resolved the petition filed by BP Products If any claims are asserted by Exxon that affect Alyeska and its owners, BP in September 2009 and the alleged violations of the 2005 Agreement.
will defend the claims vigorously.
BP Products has paid a penalty of $50.6 million in that matter and agreed to perform certain abatement actions.
Compliance with the 2010 Agreement which is set to expire on 12 March 2012 is also a condition of probation due to the linkage between this 2010 Agreement and the 2005 Agreement.
On 6 May 2010, certain persons qualifying under the US Crime Victims Rights Act as victims in relation to the Texas City plea agreement requested that the federal court revoke BP Products probation based on alleged violations of the Courts conditions of probation.
The alleged violations of probation relate to the alleged failure to comply with the 2005 Agreement.
The OSHA process safety management citations issued in October 2009 were not resolved by the August 2010 settlement agreement.
The proposed penalties in that matter are $30.7 million.
The matter is currently before the OSH Review Commission which has assigned an Administrative Law Judge for purposes of mediation.
These citations do not allege violations of the 2005 Agreement.
132 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
