Business review We run a range of programmes to build the skills of businesses in places Research and technology where we work and to develop the local supply chain.
These range from financing to sharing global standards and practice in areas such as health BPs research and technology R&T model is one of selective technology and safety.
The programmes benefit local companies by empowering them leadership.
We have chosen 20 major technology programmes that support to reach the standards needed to supply BP and other clients.
At the same our competitive performance in resource access, advanced conversion, time BP benefits from the local sourcing of goods and services.
differentiated products and lower-carbon energy.
BP enhanced its scientific We work with local authorities, community groups and others to capability in 2010 through the recruitment of a new chief scientist and deliver community programmes matched to local interests and needs.
These range from education programmes to community infrastructure External assurance is achieved through the Technology Advisory programmes that help people in developing economies access basic Council, which advises the board and executive management on the state resources such as drinking water and healthcare.
The council typically comprises eight to 10 eminent We use our technical knowledge and global reach where relevant to business and academic technology leaders.
support governments in their efforts to develop their economies In 2010, our expenditure on research and development R&D was sustainably.
As well as country-specific projects, we support more general $780 million, compared with $587 million in 2009 and $595 million in 2008. initiatives, including the Oxford Centre for the Analysis of Resource-Rich See Financial statements Note 14 on page 175.
The 2010 amount Economies, which studies how countries that are rich in natural resources includes $211 million of R&D expenditure related to the Gulf of Mexico oil such as oil and gas, can use their resources for successful development spill.
Despite the redeployment of many technologists in response to the rather than falling prey to mismanagement, corruption and other pitfalls.
spill, underlying R&D expenditure for 2010 remained similar to the two We support various voluntary, multi-stakeholder initiatives aimed preceeding years.
The $780 million total excludes payments made in at sharing best practice and improving industry-wide management of key relation to the Gulf of Mexico Research Initiative, outlined below.
We are a member of the Extractive Collaboration plays an important role across the breadth of BPs Industries Transparency Initiative, which supports the creation of a R&D activities, but particularly in those areas that benefit from fundamental standardized process for transparent reporting of company payments and scientific research: government revenues from oil, gas and mining.
We are also a participant in In response to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, BP has established the Gulf the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights through which we of Mexico Research Initiative, a 10-year $500-million open-research have developed a robust internal process designed to ensure that the programme into the effects of the spill.
The ultimate goal of the security of our operations around the world is maintained in a manner research efforts will be to improve societys ability to mitigate the consistent with our group stance on human rights.
impacts of hydrocarbon pollution and related stressors of the marine Our direct spending on community programmes in 2010 was environment.
In 2010, BP awarded $40 million of short-term contracts $115.2 million, which included contributions of $22.9 million in the US, for immediate research into the effects of the spill.
$36.7 million in the UK including $6.5 million to UK charities, relating to BP has significant, long-term research programmes with major $3.6 million for art, $1.3 million for community development, $0.8 million universities and research institutions around the world, exploring areas for education, $0.5 million for health and $0.3 million for other purposes, from energy bioscience and conversion technology to carbon mitigation $3 million in other European countries and $52.6 million in the rest of and nanotechnology in solar power.
2010 marked two significant the world.
Funding for our response effort and long-term commitments milestones the 10-year anniversaries of both the Carbon Mitigation to the Gulf Coast region is handled by the Gulf Coast Restoration Initiative CMI at Princeton University and the BP Institute for Organization.
Multiphase Flow BPI at the University of Cambridge.
The success of the CMI has resulted in agreement for BP to support an additional five years of research.
BP has also agreed to increase the BPI endowment fund to support an extra senior researcher and part-time administrator.
The BP Foundation funded the new McKenzie Chair in Earth Sciences at the University of Cambridge.
The Chair will ensure the continued excellence of research and teaching of quantitative earth sciences in the department.
At the Energy Biosciences Institute EBI in Berkeley, US, the investment in foundational research platforms has started to generate innovations with direct commercial relevance.
The first of these are being adopted by the biofuels business into commercial practice.
The EBIs capabilities developed for the study of microbially-enhanced oil and gas recovery were leveraged to study the microbial biodegradation of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
BP is a founding member of the UKs Energy Technologies Institute ETI a public private partnership established in 2008 to accelerate low-carbon technology development.
As at 31 December 2010, the ETI had commissioned over $92 million of work covering more than 20 projects across a wide range of technologies.
The ETI has also developed an integrated model of the UK energy system, which projects potential pathways out to 2050 to meet the UKs emissions targets.
The Energy Sustainability Challenge is a multi-disciplinary research programme aimed at understanding pressures on freshwater availability and increasing competition for land and mineral resources, driven by the impact of increasing population and urbanization on energy demand.
Research projects with leading universities are under way, investigating the effects of natural resource scarcities on patterns of energy supply and consumption, and which technologies are likely to be needed in an increasingly resource-constrained world.
76 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review Exploration and Production In fuels and lubricants, our technology focus is on supplying products In our Exploration and Production segment, technology investment is with greater fuel efficiency and reduced CO emissions.
In partnership 2 focused on ensuring safe, reliable operations, strengthening our portfolio, with original equipment manufacturers, BP has developed a new getting more from our resource base and winning new access.
passenger car engine oil offering 2.4% fuel saving: a transmission oil for The Gulf of Mexico oil spill required rapid innovation of new military vehicles with a 1.5% fuel saving: and the turbine oil for the new technologies to cap the well and contain the spill.
We are working on prototype fuels to optimize continue as part of Gulf restoration efforts.
BP worked with industry the performance and efficiency of next-generation engines and to partners, multiple government agencies, and academia to develop enable increased biofuel content to meet national mandates.
In the US, TM solutions and, as a result, now has a set of additional assets covering: BPs Invigorate gasoline has been endorsed by BMW for its superior An inventory of immediately deployable open and closed performance in cleaning engine fuel injection systems.
containment systems proven at depth with associated In 2010, we opened a new lubricants technology centre in Shanghai, operating procedures.
China, and a new fuels technology centre in Johannesburg, South Proven systems for processing and transporting contained oil.
Both represent the first investments of their type in those Diagnostic and surveillance techniques for dispersed oil analysis countries for an international oil company and underpin BPs and monitoring.
commitment to these important markets.
Plans and organizational models for the immediate deployment of Our proprietary processing technologies and operational experience dedicated source containment.
continue to reduce the manufacturing costs and environmental impact Enhanced technologies and procedures to drill relief wells in of our petrochemicals plants, helping to maintain competitive advantage deep water.
in purified terephthalic acid PTA, paraxylene, and acetic acid.
Learning Experience in using all of the above capabilities.
from successful project implementations in Asia, continuous BP continues to develop and apply innovative exploration technologies.
improvement of our CATIVA technology for manufacture of acetic acid TM Following the successful use of the ISS seismic acquisition technique maintains BPs world-class capital and operating cost position.
in Libya in 2009, we have conducted field trials, combined with In the field of conversion technology, we continue to work with cableless node receivers to further increase seismic acquisition potential third-party licensees to commercialize BPs fixed-bed efficiency.
Positive test results led to a decision to acquire 3,000 square Fischer-Tropsch technology.
This technology can be applied to the kilometres of the 2010 11 Libya onshore acquisition programme using conversion of unconventional feedstocks, including biomass, to this method.
high-quality diesel and other liquid hydrocarbons.
In addition, BP and Through the inherently reliable facilities IRF flagship technology KBR agreed a 25-year collaboration to promote, market, and execute programme, BP is developing a fundamental understanding of corrosion licensing and engineering services for the slurry-bed residue and and erosion risks and corresponding mitigation barriers and techniques.
coal-upgrading Veba Combi Cracker VCC Technology.
VCC Technology The IRF programme has developed fibre optic pipeline monitoring is a hydrogen-addition technology suitable for processing crude oil technologies to reduce the risk of third-party interference and monitor residuum into high-quality distillates or synthetic crude oil in the for leaks.
These were deployed on the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline in refining, upstream-field upgrading and coal-to-liquids sectors.
2010, and further applications are planned.
Enhanced oil recovery EOR technologies continue to push recovery Alternative Energy factors to new limits.
We believe that by increasing the overall recovery BPs Alternative Energy portfolio covers a wide range of renewable and factor from our fields by 1%, we can add 2 billion boe to our reserves.
As at the end of 2010, BP has treated 56 wells with Bright Water In 2010, our biofuels business acquired Vereniums lignocellulosic technology in Alaska, Argentina, Azerbaijan and Pakistan, which has biofuels business, which will accelerate the development of delivered increased reserves at a development cost of less than $6 per lignocellulosic ethanol technology to commercialization.
BP has barrel, and with an 80% success rate.
Following field trials in Alaska, acquired: R&D facilities in San Diego, California: intellectual property TM LoSal EOR in the Clair field UK North Sea is now in front end related to proprietary lignocellulosic biofuels R&D and conversion engineering design stage.
The Clair Ridge LoSal EOR project will be the technology: a pilot plant and demonstration facility in Jennings, worlds first offshore LoSal technology waterflood.
Following extensive Louisiana: and BP is now the sole owner of Vercipia Biofuels, which is EOR studies for the Schiehallion field in the West of Shetland, BP and commercializing production of lignocellulosic ethanol.
co-owners have approved the design of the new Quad 204 Schiehallion In the wind business, the quest for more energy-efficient wind turbine FPSO the floating production, storage and offloading unit, which is generators continues.
In the US, BP Wind Energy is testing state-ofexpected to be sanctioned in the second quarter of 2011 to be fully the-art laser wind sensor units to deliver improved wind turbine polymer EOR ready.
performance and increase energy output.
In our solar business, a new technology designed to make solar cells TM Refining and Marketing more efficient in extremely high temperatures, InnerCool solar In our Refining and Marketing segment, technology is delivering technology, is being piloted at a university in Saudi Arabia, where we performance improvements across all businesses.
For example: have demonstrated increases in energy generation of approximately Technology advances in our refining and logistics businesses give us 3%.
We have also developed and introduced a new anti-reflective glass better understanding and processing of different feedstocks, coating for solar modules, reducing the amount of energy lost through optimization of our assets, enhanced flexibility and reliability of our reflection and allowing more light to reach the cells, thus increasing refineries, and stronger margins.
In 2010, following extensive energy generation by up to 4% compared to plain glass modules.
development work with BP and Imperial College London, Permasense In 2010, the first phase of BPs joint industry project with Sonatrach and launched a new integrity-monitoring system that enables frequent, Statoil at In Salah, Algeria to demonstrate new technologies for repeatable wall-thickness monitoring.
This provides previously monitoring stored CO drew to a close.
The project is helping to set 2 unavailable insights into the condition and capability of oil and gas operational parameters for the secure geological storage of CO, with 2 assets.
The Permasense system has been proven in operation at BP particular highlights including the Quantitative Risk Assessment refineries in Germany and the US, and is now being deployed at our developed, tested and benchmarked at In Salah, as well as the refineries worldwide.
integration of technologies, such as satellite imaging and 3D and 4D seismic, to better understand the behaviour of CO plumes in 2 ISS, LoSal, Invigorate and InnerCool are trade marks of BP p. l. c. the subsurface.
Bright Water is a trade mark of Nalco Energy Services LP.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 77
