Business review Our oil and natural gas production assets are located onshore and offshore Exploration and Production and include wells, gathering centres, in-field flow lines, processing facilities, storage facilities, offshore platforms, export systems e. g. transit lines, Organizational and governance changes in Exploration and pipelines and LNG plant facilities.
Production Upstream operations in Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Abu Dhabi, As part of our response to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, at the beginning of Venezuela and Russia, as well as some of our operations in Angola, Canada the fourth quarter we decided to reorganize our Exploration and Production and Indonesia, are conducted through equity-accounted entities.
segment to create three separate divisions: Exploration, Developments, and Production, integrated through a Strategy and Integration organization.
Our market This is designed to change fundamentally the way we operate, with Energy markets recovered in 2010 from the impact of the global economic a particular focus on managing risk, delivering common standards recession, with crude oil prices in particular bouncing back following a and processes and building personnel and technological capability decline in 2009 the first since 2001. for the future.
Dated Brent for the year averaged $79.50 per barrel, 29% above The Exploration division is accountable for renewing our resource 2009s average of $61.67 per barrel.
Prices fluctuated in a relatively narrow base through access, exploration and appraisal.
The Developments division band of $70-$80 per barrel for most of the year before rising in the fourth is accountable for the safe and compliant execution of wells drilling and quarter.
Prices exceeded $90 per barrel in December, the highest level completions and major projects, building on the centralized developments since October 2008. organization established in 2010.
The Production division is accountable for In 2011, we expect oil price movements to continue to be driven by safe and compliant operations, including upstream production assets, the pace of global economic growth and its resulting implications for oil midstream transportation and processing activities, and the development consumption, and by OPEC production decisions.
Divisional activities are integrated on a regional basis Natural gas prices strengthened in 2010, but were volatile.
The by a regional president reporting to the Production division.
average US Henry Hub First of Month Index rose to $4.39 mmBtu, a 10% The group Safety and Operational Risk S&OR function is being increase from the depressed prices in 2009. enhanced to further our objectives in safety, compliance and risk Gas consumption recovered across the world along with the management and demonstrates our commitment to preventing future economy.
In the US, a cold start to 2010 followed by a hot summer and low-probability, high-impact incidents.
It has its own expert staff embedded low temperatures towards the end of the year also contributed to demand in the divisions and is responsible for ensuring that all operations are carried strength.
Yet domestic production growth of shale gas in particular out to common standards and for auditing compliance with those continued apace and limited price rises.
Henry Hub gas prices stayed standards.
below coal parity in US power generation from the summer, leading to The Strategy and Integration organization is accountable for the displacement of coal by gas.
The differentials of production area optimization and integration across the divisions, including delivery of prices to Henry Hub prices continued to narrow as pipeline bottlenecks support from finance, procurement and supply chain, human resources and were reduced.
In Europe, spot gas prices at the UK National Balancing Point Our Exploration and Production segment included upstream and increased by 38% to an average of 42.45 pence per therm for 2010.
Yet midstream activities in 29 countries in 2010, including Angola, Azerbaijan, plentiful global LNG supply kept spot gas prices below oil-indexed contract Canada, Egypt, Norway, Russia, Trinidad & Tobago Trinidad, the UK, the US levels for most of the year, causing competition with contract pipeline and other locations within Asia, Australasia, South America and Africa, as supplies and marginal European gas production.
UK spot gas prices only well as gas marketing and trading activities, primarily in Canada, Europe and attained contract price levels from the end of November as cold weather the US.
Upstream activities involve oil and natural gas exploration and field caused rapid inventory draw-downs.
Our exploration programme is currently In 2011, we expect gas markets to continue to be driven by the focused on Egypt, the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Libya, the North Sea, economy, weather, domestic production trends and continued significant Oman and onshore US.
Major development areas include Angola, growth of global LNG supply.
Azerbaijan, Canada, Egypt, the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the UK North Sea and Russia.
During 2010, production came from 20 countries.
The Our strategy principal areas of production are Angola, Azerbaijan, Egypt, Russia, Trinidad, In Exploration and Production, our priority is to ensure safe, reliable and the UK and the US.
Our strategy is to invest to grow Midstream activities involve the ownership and management of long-term value by continuing to build a portfolio of enduring positions in crude oil and natural gas pipelines, processing facilities and export the worlds key hydrocarbon basins with a focus on deepwater, gas terminals, LNG processing facilities and transportation, and our NGL including unconventional gas and giant fields.
Our strategy is enabled by: extraction businesses in the US, the UK, Canada and Indonesia.
Our most Continuously reducing operating risk.
significant midstream pipeline interests are the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Strong relationships built on mutual advantage, deep knowledge of the System in the US, the Forties Pipeline System and the Central Area basins in which we operate, and technology.
Transmission System pipeline, both in the UK sector of the North Sea: the Building capability along the value chain in Exploration, Developments South Caucasus Pipeline SCP, which takes gas from Azerbaijan through and Production.
Georgia to the Turkish border: and the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline, running through Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey.
Major LNG activities are located in We are increasing investment in Exploration, a key source of value creation Trinidad, Indonesia and Australia.
BP is also investing in the LNG business at the front end of the value chain, and we are evolving the nature of our in Angola.
relationships, particularly with National Oil Companies.
We will also Additionally, our activities include the marketing and trading of continue to actively manage our portfolio, with a focus on value growth.
natural gas, power and natural gas liquids.
These activities provide routes into liquid markets for BPs gas and power, and generate margins and fees associated with the provision of physical and financial products to third parties and additional income from asset optimization and trading.
40 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
