Business review Business review Further note on certain activities During the period covered by this report, non-US subsidiaries or other non-US entities of BP conducted limited activities in, or with persons from, certain countries identified by the US Department of State as State Sponsors of Terrorism or otherwise subject to US sanctions Sanctioned Countries.
These activities continue to be insignificant to the groups financial condition and results of operations.
In the first half of 2010, new sanctions against Iran and against companies that make investments that enhance Irans ability to develop petroleum resources or provide or facilitate the production or import of refined petroleum products into Iran were adopted in the US under the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act of 2010.
The European Union and the UN also adopted new restrictive measures.
The EU sanctions restrict the provision of certain technologies to Iranian entities and also prohibit providing assistance to help develop certain exploration and production, refining, and LNG facilities or operations in Iran.
BP has interests in, and is the operator of, two fields and a pipeline located outside Iran in which Naftiran Intertrade Co. Ltd, NICO SPV Limited NICO and Iranian Oil Company UK Limited have interests.
One of these fields, the North Sea Rhum field, has suspended production pending clarification of the impact of the EU restrictive measures.
The Shah Deniz field continues in operation under the EU measures.
BP has purchased or shipped quantities of crude oil, refinery and petrochemicals feedstocks, blending components and LPG of Iranian origin or from Iranian counterparties primarily for sale to third parties in Europe and a small portion is used by BP in its own facilities in South Africa and Europe.
BP incurs some port costs for cargos loaded in Iran and sometimes charters Iranian-owned vessels outside of Iran.
Small quantities of lubricants are sold to non-Iranian third parties for use in Iran.
Until recently BP held an equity interest in an Iranian joint venture that has a blending facility and markets lubricants for sale to domestic consumers.
In January 2010, BP restructured its interest in the joint venture and currently maintains its involvement through certain contractual arrangements.
BP does not seek to obtain from the government of Iran licences or agreements for oil and gas projects in Iran, is not conducting any technical studies in Iran, and does not own or operate any refineries or petrochemicals plants in Iran.
BP sells lubricants in Cuba through a 50:50 joint venture and trades in small quantities of lubricants.
In Syria, BP sells lubricants through a distributor and BP obtains crude oil and refinery feedstocks for sale to third parties in Europe and for use in certain of its non-US refineries.
In addition, BP sells crude oil and refined products into and from Syria and incurs port costs for vessels utilizing Syrian ports.
BP sold small quantities of LPG to an agent on behalf of a Sudanese party for making aerosols in Sudan, but no longer makes such sales.
A non-BP operated Malaysian joint venture has sold small quantities of petrochemicals into Burma: these sales have now terminated.
A non-controlled and non-operated Brazilian biofuels joint venture in which BP has an interest sold a cargo of sugar cane by-products to Iran and to Syria.
BP supplies to airlines and shipping companies from Sanctioned Countries fuels and lubricants at airports and ports located outside these countries.
BP sells to third parties who may re-sell to entities from Sanctioned Countries.
A non-controlled, non-operated joint venture in Hamburg, Germany provided fuel delivery services but did not sell fuel to Iranian airlines.
BP terminated all fuel sales to Iranian airlines as of July 2010 and to Sudanese airlines in December 2010.
Sales to Iranian shipping companies have also been terminated.
BP has registered, and paid required fees for, patents and trademarks in Sanctioned Countries.
BP monitors its activities with Sanctioned Countries and keeps them under review to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations of the US, the EU and other countries where BP operates.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 33
