Corporate governance Corporate governance The board considered Mr Nelsons extensive skills and experience made Committee Reports him the ideal candidate to succeed Douglas Flint.
Mr Nelson served as a member of the UK Board of KPMG from 2000 to 2006 following which he Audit committee report was appointed vice chairman until his retirement in 2010.
In KPMG The audit committees agenda in 2010, like that of the board, was International he held a number of senior positions including global significantly shaped by the tragic events in the Gulf of Mexico.
These chairman, banking and global chairman, financial services.
Subsequent to required the committee to focus additional attention and go in greater depth retiring from KPMG he was appointed a non-executive director of The Royal into matters concerning BPs response to the incident, in particular in this Bank of Scotland Group plc where he is chairman of the Group Audit committee regarding the financial consequences.
effort was spent reviewing and challenging BPs assessment of the likely cost of its immediate and longer-term financial responsibilities and the Committee role and structure adequacy of disclosure both around these financial consequences and the The role and responsibilities of the audit committee are set out in the related contingencies which were unable to be expressed financially at each Appendix of BPs board governance principles and available on our website.
We also critically reviewed the control aspects surrounding We keep these under review and test their effectiveness in our annual the deployment of BPs financial and physical resources in responding to the evaluation of the audit committee.
incident and, at the height of the crisis, critically examined the groups The committee met 15 times in 2010: this was a significant liquidity and funding position.
increase over the previous year with additional time being needed to cover While all of these matters were also covered by the board in full the financial and control aspects of the incident in the Gulf of Mexico.
As it session, and many were independently covered from a different perspective does each year, the committee held a joint meeting with the safety, ethics by the newly formed Gulf of Mexico committee, the audit committee was and environment assurance committee SEEAC in January to review the extensively engaged in the detailed review of the financial reporting aspects general auditors report on internal control and risk management systems of the incident and the companys response.
It was also important that the for 2010. committee maintained its regular oversight with respect to internal controls Each meeting of the committee is attended by the group chief and financial integrity across the remainder of the companys activities and financial officer, the deputy chief financial officer, the group controller, the consequentially, as reported below, we held a number of extra meetings to general auditor head of internal audit and the chief accounting officer.
The ensure our originally planned agenda could be fulfilled in addition to the lead partner of our external auditors Ernst & Young is also present.
heightened workload arising from the Gulf of Mexico incident.
The committee also holds separate private sessions during the year I regret that this will be both my first and last audit committee with the external auditor and the general auditor these sessions are report, as I am stepping down from the board following my appointment as without the presence of executive management.
chairman of HSBC Holdings plc.
This has been a very challenging year and I The board is kept updated and informed of the audit committees want to express my sincere thanks to the members of the audit committee activities and any issues arising through verbal reports at its meetings from and those who have contributed to satisfying our enquiries for having the committee chair and the circulation of the committees minutes.
I am certain this will continue under Brendan Nelsons leadership.
Committee processes Information and advice Douglas Flint Information and reports for the committee are received directly from Chair of the Audit Committee accountable functional and business managers and from relevant external sources.
In addition, like our board and other committees, the audit Committee members committee can access independent advice and counsel when needed on Douglas Flint committee chair from 15 April 2010 an unrestricted basis.
During 2010, external specialist legal advice was George David provided to the committee by Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, Freshfields Ian Davis appointed 2 April 2010 Bruckhaus Deringer LLP and Kirkland and Ellis LLP and financial advice was Brendan Nelson appointed 8 November 2010 provided by KPMG and Morgan Stanley.
As part of its annual evaluation, the Phuthuma Nhleko appointed 1 February 2011 committee reviews the adequacy of reliable and timely information from management that enables it to fulfil its responsibilities.
The 2010 evaluation Members who left during the year: indicated that members recognized the openness and transparent nature of Sir Ian Prosser previously chair of the committee retired 15 April 2010 the materials and presentations provided by management.
Erroll Davis, Jr retired 15 April 2010 Training and visits The audit committee is composed of independent, non-executive directors Responding to events in the Gulf of Mexico, there was increased focus on selected to provide a wide range of financial, international and commercial accounting policy applicable to the circumstances arising from the incident expertise appropriate to fulfil the committees duties.
and the committee received briefings on the relevant accounting policy Douglas Flint is group chairman formerly chief financial officer and applications, particularly provisioning and related disclosure.
Other executive director, risk and regulation of HSBC Holdings plc and a former technical updates the committee received included developments in member of the Accounting Standards Board and the Standards Advisory financial reporting, in oil and gas reserves disclosure and in relation to Council of the International Accounting Standards Board.
The board is taxation changes.
satisfied that he is the audit committee member with recent and relevant Induction programmes tailored around their roles on the audit financial experience as outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code and committee were prepared for the two new members who joined during the June 2008 Combined Code.
These included sessions on tax, treasury, our trading operations, The board also determined that the audit committee meets the accounting, financial authorities and the structure of BPs finance function.
independence criteria provisions of Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities Both had separate, private sessions with the external and internal auditors.
Exchange Act of 1934 and that Mr Flint may be regarded as an audit During 2011, we will undertake an audit committee induction programme committee financial expert as defined in Item 16A of Form 20-F. for Phuthuma Nhleko.
Douglas Flint became chair of the audit committee upon the The audit committee held one of its regular meetings at BPs UK retirement of Sir Ian Prosser from the board in April 2010.
As noted above, trading operations and combined this with a visit to the trading floors which following his appointment as chairman of HSBC Holdings plc, he will retire provided the opportunity to meet and put questions to employees.
from the BP board at the AGM in April 2011.
Brendan Nelson will become Members of the committee also visited the Gulf of Mexico.
chair of the audit committee from this time.
Upon Mr Flints retirement, Mr Nelson will become the audit committee financial expert as defined in Item 16A of Form 20-F. BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 97 Corporate governance Committee activities Performance of the external auditors is evaluated by the audit committee Gulf of Mexico each year, with particular emphasis on their independence, objectivity and The committee considered critically the financial reporting arising from the viability.
The committee reviews the composition of the audit team annually incident in the Gulf of Mexico, including the impact on the companys and meets the relevant partners when undertaking business or function liquidity, provisions and contingencies, risk factor disclosure, the associated reviews.
Additionally, the committee has the opportunity to assess specific accounting treatment arising from events and the approval of market technical capabilities in the audit firm when addressing specialist topics, for announcements.
It has also received reports from the general auditor and example this year in impairment testing and liquidity reviews.
the group controller on the status of financial controls in the new Gulf We maintain auditor independence through limiting non-audit Coast Restoration Organization.
services to tax and audit-related work that fall within defined categories.
A new lead audit partner is appointed every five years and other senior audit Financial reporting staff are rotated every seven years.
No partners or senior staff from Ernst & The groups quarterly financial reports, the 2009 Annual Report and Young who are connected with the BP audit may transfer to the group.
Accounts, the Annual Review and the 20-F were reviewed by the Non-audit work by Ernst & Young is subject to the audit committees committee before recommending their publication to the board.
Non-audit work undertaken by Ernst & Young and by undertaking this review, the committee discussed with management how other accountancy firms is regularly monitored by the committee.
they had applied critical accounting policies and judgements to these Fees paid to the external auditor for the year were $55 million, of documents, including key assumptions regarding provisions such as for which 14.5% was for non-audit work see Financial statements Note 17 the Gulf of Mexico spill response, litigation, environmental remediation and on page 176.
After four years of reductions, the fees and services provided decommissioning, contingencies and impairment testing.
Further details by Ernst & Young for audit and non-audit work increased slightly in 2010 due on impairment reviews are included in the Financial statements Note 5 to additional work required consequent upon the Gulf of Mexico incident.
Each year, the committee also The audit committee considers both the fee structure and the audit reviews the companys disclosures relating to oil and gas reserves.
engagement terms and monitors progress during the year.
It has recommended to the board that the reappointment of Ernst & Young as the Monitoring business risk companys external auditors be proposed to shareholders at the 2011 AGM.
The committee operates a regular cycle of review of risk, control and assurance from BPs businesses and supporting functions.
During the year, Internal audit the committee undertook a controls review of the US Midwest fuels value Progress of internal audit against the annual schedule of audits is monitored chain and received an update on risk, governance and controls activities on a quarterly basis, and the committee looks at the key findings and relating to TNK-BP.
The latter included the reports on the system of internal tracking of any material actions that are overdue or have been rescheduled.
control, TNK-BPs quarterly financial reporting procedures and certain tax A programme of work by internal audit is proposed each year for the matters.
Functional reviews were held of information technology and committees approval and in reviewing this, the committee looks at services, procurement, integrated supply and trading and BPs business whether it believes key risks facing the company have been appropriately service centres.
The programme in 2010 was supplemented considerably by Other areas of review by the committee included the central case additional work related to risks and controls consequent upon the Gulf of planning assumptions for oil and gas prices and refining margins that are Mexico incident.
The programme for 2011 also reflects an enhanced risk utilized in the groups investment appraisal process as well as impairment environment and was approved by the committee in January 2011. reviews, a review of the delivery of major projects and the risk management The general auditor met privately with the committee once during the and investment strategy relating to pensions and retirement benefits.
year, without the presence of executive management or the external auditors.
During the year the chief financial officer reported on the work of He also meets as necessary with the committee chair between meetings.
the group financial risk committee this is an executive-level committee Each year the committee reviews internal audits staff resources in that provides assurance to the executive on the management of BPs both number and expertise to seek assurance that they are sufficient to financial risk.
The committee was also satisfied that internal audit had appropriate access to information and that management was committed in Internal control, audit and risk management the provision of that information.
The committee also seeks the views of The forward agenda for the audit committee contains standing items on the external auditors on the effectiveness and quality of internal audit.
internal control these include the quarterly internal audit findings report, an evaluation of internal controls, and an annual assessment of BPs Other activities enterprise level controls.
Through quarterly updates by the group compliance and ethics officer and An important input into the boards review of the companys system general auditor, the committee monitors fraud, misconduct and nonof risk management and internal control is the annual joint meeting compliance with the BP code of conduct and remedial actions undertaken between the audit committee and the SEEAC.
This takes place at the start as a result.
The annual certification report which is signed by the group of each year to review the general auditors report on internal control and chief executive is also reviewed by the committee.
risk management systems for the previous year.
The general auditor reviews Financial issues and concerns that have been flagged through the his teams findings and managements actions to remedy significant issues companys employee concerns programme OpenTalk, are reviewed by the identified in that work.
His report also includes information on the results of committee which tracks trends in both the case type and time taken to audit work undertaken by the safety and operational risk audit team and close out queries and reports.
reviews by the groups financial control team.
Committee evaluation External auditors The audit committee examines its performance and effectiveness on an In 2010, the committee held two scheduled meetings with the external annual basis.
In 2010, the committee used an internally designed auditors without management being present.
These sessions, without the questionnaire administered by external consultants.
It looked at key areas, presence of executive management, offered an opportunity for direct including the clarity of its role and responsibilities, the balance of skills feedback and dialogue between both the committee and the auditors.
among its members and the effectiveness of reporting its work to the In addition, the chair of the audit committee meets privately with the board.
The review concluded inter alia that it had been effective and was external auditors before each audit committee.
satisfied with the extent of training it received but would seek to make time for more.
Overall the committee considered it had the right composition in terms of expertise and resource to undertake its activities effectively.
98 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Corporate governance Corporate governance Safety, ethics and environment assurance committee report In addition to the committee membership, each SEEAC meeting is attended The tragic incident in the Gulf of Mexico, and the extensive activities that by the group chief executive, the executive vice president for safety and were undertaken in response, required and received the full attention of operational risk Mark Bly, the general auditor head of internal audit and the whole board.
It was agreed, early on, that SEEAC should focus its the lead partner from our external auditors.
Four times during the year the efforts with respect to the incident upon monitoring the pace and committee held private sessions for the committee members only without effectiveness of the companys group wide response to the the presence of executive management after the main business of the recommendations of BPs Investigation Report further information on the meeting, to discuss any issues arising or matters on the minds of the report is on page 91.
The Gulf of Mexico committee, of which I am a committee membership.
The committee also held a private session with the member, was established as a separate committee to monitor the ongoing group compliance and ethics officer.
Between meetings, discussions restoration activities in the Gulf of Mexico.
This enabled the SEEAC to involving the committee chair and secretary, the external auditors lead retain its focus on the key non-financial risks within its previously planned partner, the general auditor and executive management occur as agenda for the year, as you will read in the report below.
Nonetheless, I and my SEEAC colleagues made a number of visits to the Gulf of Mexico to gain first-hand assurance of the activities to cap Committee processes the Macondo well and remediate the impact of the oil spill.
I believe the Information and advice combined response of all those involved was outstanding but we all Information to the committee comes from both inside and outside the remained deeply saddened that the incident had occurred and that 11 lives company.
The business segments and regional organizations provide direct had been lost.
Our forward focus on the recommendations of BPs reports to the committee but there is also cross-business information on a Investigation Report is intended to provide board-level assurance that such group wide level from our functions, including the safety and operations an incident could not recur.
risk function, internal audit, group compliance and ethics, group legal and I believe the committee is well resourced to fulfil its tasks and this HR.
During the year, the main external input into the committee has been has been further strengthened by the recent appointment of Frank Skip from Mr Duane Wilson, the Independent Expert for further information, Bowman to the board.
Frank Bowman had served on the BP US Refineries see the section on Independent Expert below.
As for the board and other Independent Safety Review Panel and brings to SEEAC his extensive safety committees, SEEAC can access any other independent advice and counsel experience from his time as head of the US Nuclear Navy.
if it requires, on an unrestricted basis.
During the year SEEAC members have received briefings from external retained counsel, primarily Kirkland Sir William Castell and Ellis LLP.
Chair of the Safety Ethics and Environment Assurance Committee Training and visits Committee members The committee visited the Texas City refinery in March 2010 to see the Sir William Castell committee chair progress made against the BP US Refineries Independent Safety Review Paul Anderson appointed 2 February 2010 Panel report.
This followed up on their observations from their previous visit Frank Skip Bowman appointed 8 November 2010 in September 2007 and the committee chairmans visit in April 2008.
The Antony Burgmans committee was joined by four other directors and received an extensive Cynthia Carroll update on process safety progress since the 2005 incident.
Their observations were consistent with the reports received from the Members who left during the year: Independent Expert.
Erroll Davis, Jr retired 15 April 2010 Planned visits to other sites during the year were cancelled to enable the committee to reorganize its schedule to focus upon issues Committee role and structure arising from the Macondo incident.
Each member of SEEAC visited The role of the SEEAC is to look at the processes adopted by BPs operations in the Gulf of Mexico at least once during the year, with the executive management to identify and mitigate significant non-financial SEEAC chair making a number of visits to the region and its command risk, including monitoring process safety management, and receive centres to observe first hand BPs response efforts and the progress of assurance that they are appropriate in design and effective in attempts to kill the well and mitigate the effects of the oil spill.
The full list of the tasks and responsibilities of the SEEAC technical briefing was provided to the committee and other board is available on our website members on exploration drilling by the relevant functional managers.
The committee met nine times in 2010.
The increased number of Induction programmes for the two new members of SEEAC were meetings held in 2010 primarily reflected the committees work in organized during the year and, in the case of Frank Bowman, is still ongoing reviewing the companys actions in response to BPs Investigation Report.
These meetings also provided input for the boards review of that report and established an ongoing monitoring process for SEEAC.
One meeting Committee activities early each year is held jointly with the audit committee to review BPs Safety and operations internal control and risk management systems and to discuss the forward Discussion on personal and process safety and operational risk and programme of the internal audit function.
In January 2011 this meeting was performance forms a large part of the committees agenda.
The committee extended to enhance the focus on the integrated approach of audit work receives regular reports from the safety and operational risk function, including that of the safety and operational risk audit function.
including the quarterly reports prepared for executive management on the groups HSE performance and operational integrity.
In 2010, excluding meeting time specifically addressing the Gulf of Mexico incident, the SEEAC utilized 42% of its agenda on safety and operational risk matters including process safety.
This small reduction, compared with the 51% recorded in 2009, reflected the committees commitment to gaining assurance in other areas of its remit including crisis and continuity management, regulatory compliance, environmental monitoring, security and product quality risk.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 99 Corporate governance The committee also examined quarterly audit reports from BPs internal Other topics audit and safety and operations functions which highlighted key findings During the year, the committee examined the companys crisis response and material actions arising from audits which had taken place at segment, and continuity management plans.
It also reviewed the risk identification functional and regional levels and tracked their close-out.
Safety and and companys proposed mitigations relating to hydrocarbon environmental performance of projects was included within the reporting product quality.
by segment and performance unit.
Developments in the measurement of greenhouse gas emissions Activities from the executive-level group operations risk committee were considered by the committee in the context of regulatory compliance GORC are reported to the SEEAC by its chair at each meeting.
The SEEAC and as part of the companys tracking and disclosure processes.
received regular updates on the companys interaction with regulatory agencies, and the committee chairman received a briefing from legal Committee evaluation counsel on the OSHA citations in respect of Texas City.
For its 2010 evaluation, the SEEAC used a questionnaire administered by external consultants to examine the committees performance and Gulf of Mexico effectiveness.
The review looked at different areas, including the balance The committee examined BPs Investigation Report and its of skills and experience among its membership, quality and timeliness of recommendations before providing input for the boards review of the information the committee receives, the level of challenge between report prior to its publication.
The committee noted that the BP committee members and management and how well the committee investigation team had conducted its investigation independently from communicates its activities and findings to the board.
the teams managing regular operations and the ongoing response to the The committee concluded that it should endeavour to increase its incident.
The committee also reviewed, and reported to the board, site visits and training, noting that the particular circumstances of 2010 had managements early actions in response to lessons learned.
The action reduced the opportunity for such activities except in relation to the Gulf of plan that has been developed from the 26 recommendations of BPs Mexico.
It also believed that it could improve the prioritization of its Investigation Report will be tracked in its implementation by the agendas through more focused pre-read material.
The committee committee, against agreed timelines and milestones.
In monitoring considered its current membership provided a well-balanced resource and progress against BPs Investigation Reports recommendations, the safety also noted the valuable contribution made by the Independent Expert.
and operations audit function will provide SEEAC with quarterly tracking reports and reporting updates will be made by upstreams executive vice president Developments and by the group chief executive.
The committee is also monitoring other, non-BP investigations to determine how the conclusions from these relate to the action plan and activities arising from BPs Investigation Report.
The committee will also keep under review the implementation of the new safety and operational risk organizational structure and the resourcing it requires to support the decision and intervention rights it has in all aspects of the groups technical and operational activities, including key investment decisions.
Independent Expert Duane Wilson was appointed in 2007 by the board as an Independent Expert to provide an objective assessment of BPs progress in implementing the recommendations of the BP US Refineries Independent Review Panel aimed at improving process safety performance at BPs five US refineries.
During the year, Mr Wilson kept the committee updated on his workplan and the outcome of his visits to each of BPs five US refining sites.
In March, he published his third annual report that assessed BPs progress against the 10 panel recommendations.
In his report, which was published in full on BPs website, he concluded that the company had made significant improvements in response to all 10 recommendations but that much work remained to be done.
Mr Wilsons fourth report will be published in full and available on our website in March 2011 and a summary of the third and fourth reports is provided in Safety on page 70.
Regional and functional reports The committee receives a report each year on the progress made in HSE at TNK-BP, noting however that formal oversight of the joint ventures HSE performance and policies is exercised by TNK-BPs own HSE committee.
It was reported that TNK-BP continued to make significant progress in addressing the main safety, ethical and environmental challenges confronting it since its creation in 2003.
Nonetheless, significant areas remain for improvement and the committee will continue to monitor progress regularly.
With joint venture operations in Iraq getting under way, the committee sought and received an update on the risks and management of security in Iraq.
100 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Corporate governance Corporate governance Gulf of Mexico committee report Overseeing BPs activities and responsibilities with respect to the Gulf Following the accident in the Gulf of Mexico a separate business Coast Claims Facility and the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust.
organization was set up to manage the groups long-term response to the Overseeing the process for distribution of the goodwill fund for rig incident the Gulf Coast Restoration Organization GCRO.
The board workers who have been impacted by the drilling moratorium imposed subsequently created the Gulf of Mexico committee in recognition of the by the US government.
scale of the long-term response and to oversee the activities of the GCRO, Overseeing expenditures and investments that fall outside the thereby freeing up more of the boards time to devote sufficient attention established claims administration process, or any redirection of to the oversight and strategic direction of the group as a whole.
resources outside the normal course of business.
The committee has met with leaders and management of the Reviewing and monitoring management strategy and actions to restore GCRO on a frequent basis in 2010, in order to oversee their running of the the groups reputation in the US and supporting management in any organization and to cover each of the committees tasks listed below, with a activities aimed at that goal.
particular focus on legal and claims-related matters.
I believe the committee has taken a rigorous approach to its work The committee also considers and reviews the GCROs management of maintaining a detailed view of the complex issues involved in the aftermath operational and strategic risks connected with the response to the incident.
of the incident and providing an effective oversight role on behalf of the This includes priorities, mitigation plans, resources and the effectiveness board for a number of important areas.
This has been reflected in the of activities.
frequency of meetings the committee has held since the committee was The committee met on nine occasions in 2010 after its formation formed in the summer.
As we move into the next phase of the companys in July 2010. response in the Gulf of Mexico, I expect the timetable for the committee to stabilize and, during the course of 2011, the committee will continue to Committee processes review the frequency and structure of its meetings.
Information and advice The committee receives its information from the leadership of the GCRO.
Ian Davis Legal briefings are regularly provided by the group and GCRO general Chair of the Gulf of Mexico Committee counsels, who are joined on occasion by other internal and external legal counsel.
Committee members BPs internal audit function has conducted reviews of certain of Ian Davis committee chair GCROs activities and processes, and these have been summarized for the Paul Anderson committees review.
Primary monitoring of the management of financial Sir William Castell risk is undertaken by the audit committee with monitoring of the George David management of safety and other non-financial risk by the SEEAC.
Membership of the Gulf of Mexico committee includes two of our Training and visits US-based non-executive directors and chair of the SEEAC.
Two members of The high frequency of meetings since July 2010 has helped the committee the committee are also on the audit committee, which has helped inform to become effective in each of its tasks.
Three of these meetings were held discussions at the latter relating to the provision for incident-related costs.
in the US and were of extended duration, providing the opportunity for the Each meeting of the committee is attended by Lamar McKay, committee to meet members of the GCRO leadership team.
President of the GCRO, and by Jack Lynch, general counsel to the GCRO.
Our chairman, group chief executive and group general counsel join the Committee activities meeting whenever possible.
Senior management from GCRO also attend The committees activities have included the following: meetings of the committee as appropriate.
Support is provided to the committee by the company secretarys office.
Legal Legal updates from the general counsel to the GCRO have formed a Committee role and structure significant part of the committees agenda, given the breadth and pace of The purpose of the committee is to provide non-executive oversight of the activities.
The committee has overseen the GCROs integrated legal GCRO, and to support efforts to rebuild trust in BP and BPs reputation in approach, which incorporates all government, civil and criminal the US.
investigations, the multi-district litigation, the Natural Resources Damages The work of the committee is fully integrated with the work of the Assessment process, and legal aspects of the claims processes.
The board on reputation, safety, strategy and financial planning, and the board committee has also monitored engagement with other responsible parties, retains ownership of the groups response to the incident.
The workings contractors and the other working interest owners in the Macondo well.
and conclusions of the committee are transparent to and discussed regularly with the board, who receive briefings on the committees Claims activities through the circulation of minutes, and through verbal reports that The committee has monitored the status of claims from individuals and the committee chair provides at board meetings.
businesses, which since late August have been administered by the Gulf The committee undertakes the following tasks: Coast Claims Facility, and the status of claims from government entities, Monitoring the remediation work to mitigate the effects of the oil spill in which continue to be administered by BP.
the waters of the Gulf of Mexico and on the affected shorelines.
Assessments of potential future claims for provisioning purposes Overseeing a co-ordinated response programme with affected are reviewed by the audit committee.
communities and states, and overseeing the approach for relationships with communities, states and the US government on issues relating to Remediation the incident.
The committee has received reports on the progress of clean-up and Overseeing the legal and communication strategy for litigation involving remediation activities, and on the phased transition of activities from the the company or its subsidiaries arising from the incident or its Unified Area Command to BPs control.
The committee has also been briefed aftermath, including government claims for fines and penalties.
on the results of independent studies of air, water and sediment samples in Overseeing the strategy connected with claims, recognizing the the Gulf of Mexico.
Metrics will be provided to the committee through 2011 independent nature of the connected Gulf Coast Claims Facility.
to enable remediation activities to be monitored relative to the plan.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 101 Corporate governance Reputation Remuneration committee report The committee has monitored the political landscape and the views of the American people, in part from independent polling data relating to many Committee members aspects of BPs response to the incident.
This has helped inform many of Dr DeAnne Julius committee chair the committees discussions, and the committee will continue to receive Antony Burgmans polling data on a regular basis in 2011.
George David Ian Davis appointed 2 April 2010 Other topics The committee has received reports on the status of the $500-million Gulf Members who left during the year: of Mexico Research Initiative GRI.
Research grants will be administered by Sir Ian Prosser retired 15 April 2010 the GRIs independent research board, and the committee will receive periodic updates to monitor that the distribution of funds is in accordance Committee role and structure with the principles of sound science.
The committee determines on behalf of the board the terms of The committee has reviewed the status of payments from the engagement and remuneration of the group chief executive, the chairman $100-million Rig Worker Assistance Fund Fund.
This fund is independently and executive directors and to report on those to shareholders.
The administered by the Baton Rouge Area Foundation, with BP having no right committee is independently advised.
to direct payments from the Fund.
The committee will receive periodic The chairman of the board attends meetings of the committee.
updates on the status of payments from the Fund.
DeAnne Julius will retire as chair of the remuneration committee at the 2011 AGM, from which time Antony Burgmans will assume the Committee evaluation committee chairmanship.
The committee has recently examined its performance and effectiveness.
Further details on the committees role, authority and activities The committee concluded that meetings need not be as frequent in 2011. during the year are set out in the directors remuneration report, on Meetings will be approximately monthly, with several meetings scheduled page 111 which is the subject of a vote by shareholders at the 2011 AGM.
102 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Corporate governance Corporate governance Nomination and chairmans committee reports In keeping under review the breadth of board skills, the committee took I chair both the nomination and the chairmans committees.
These into account not only the vacancies that were appearing on the board but committees have had fuller agendas in 2010 than in previous years as the also considered what was necessary to ensure the breadth of experience events and challenges of the year unfolded.
The work of the committees around the board table.
In particular, they considered the requirements of has been inevitably intertwined and for this reason I am writing here to the groups operations within the developing world.
In all of their introduce the reports which appear below.
deliberations they were mindful of the contribution made by the IAB.
During the year the non-executive directors have been engaged in During the summer the committee worked closely with the ensuring the board remained focused on its tasks and organizing its time in chairmans committee on the succession of Bob Dudley as group chief an effective way.
This has not only been through the formal work of the executive.
External advisers were used throughout this process.
chairmans committee but also through very regular informal contact The committee continues to focus on the evolution of the board as particularly during the height of the crisis.
it moves to a new stage in its development.
Membership of the board has had to evolve over the year both to For its 2010 evaluation, the nomination committee used a address the normal succession process and to address the issues with questionnaire to examine the committees performance and effectiveness.
which the board has had to deal.
The nomination committee has been The committee concluded that, overall, it had worked well during a actively involved in all of this.
challenging year and that the board had undergone substantial change, which had been supported effectively through the committee.
The Carl-Henric Svanberg evaluation concluded that the goal for the committee was to move Chair of the Nomination and Chairmans Committees forward with a better rhythm to ensure board refreshment in terms of skills and diversity.
Nomination committee report Committee members Chairmans committee report Carl-Henric Svanberg committee chair Committee members Sir William Castell Carl-Henric Svanberg committee chair Ian Davis joined upon becoming chair of the Gulf of Mexico committee in Sir William Castell August 2010 Paul Anderson appointed 2 February 2010 Douglas Flint joined upon becoming chair of the audit committee in April Frank Skip Bowman appointed 8 November 2010 2010 Cynthia Carroll Dr DeAnne Julius George David Ian Davis appointed 2 April 2010 Members who left during the year Douglas Flint Sir Ian Prosser retired 15 April 2010 Dr DeAnne Julius Brendan Nelson appointed 8 November 2010 The committee met eight times during 2010.
Phuthuma Nhleko appointed 1 February 2011 Committee role and structure Members who left during the year: The committee identifies, evaluates and recommends candidates for the Erroll Davis, Jr retired 15 April 2010 appointment or re-appointment as directors and for the appointment as Sir Ian Prosser retired 15 April 2010 company secretary.
The committee keeps the mix of knowledge, skills and experience The committee met eight times in 2010. of the board under regular review always in consultation with the chairmans committee to ensure an orderly succession of directors.
The Committee role and structure outside directorships and broader commitments of the non-executive The committee is comprised of the chairman and all the non-executive directors are also monitored by the nomination committee.
The committee consists of the chairman and the chairs of the main The main tasks of the committee are: board committees.
Evaluating the performance and effectiveness of the group chief executive.
Committee activities Reviewing the structure and effectiveness of the business organization The committee reviewed the independence and roles of each of the of BP.
directors prior to recommending them for re-election at the 2010 AGM.
Reviewing the systems for senior executive development and After the appointment of Paul Anderson and Ian Davis before the determining the succession plan for the group chief executive, executive 2010 AGM the committee kept under review the list of potential candidates directors and other senior members of executive management.
for non-executive directors to meet the developing requirements of the Determining any other matter that is appropriate to be considered by all company and the board.
It had been anticipated that DeAnne Julius would stand down at the Opining on any matter referred to it by the chairman of any committee 2011 AGM, however, in the autumn of 2010, Douglas Flint announced that comprised solely of non-executive directors.
he would stand down also at the 2011 AGM upon his appointment as chairman of HSBC.
The committee had been keeping the skills of the board under review, and as a result Brendan Nelson and Frank Skip Bowman joined the board in November 2010 and Phuthuma Nhleko in February 2011.
External advisers were involved in all three appointments.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 103
