Corporate governance The Act requires a director of a company who is in any way interested in a Memorandum and Articles contract or proposed contract with the company to declare the nature of the directors interest at a meeting of the directors of the company.
The of Association definition of interest includes the interests of spouses, children, companies and trusts.
The Act also requires that a director must avoid a The following summarizes certain provisions of the companys situation where a director has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law.
This that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the companys interests.
The summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the UK Companies Act Act allows directors of public companies to authorize such conflicts where 2006 Act and the companys Memorandum and Articles of Association.
appropriate, if a companys Articles of Association so permit.
BPs Articles For information on where investors can obtain copies of the Memorandum of Association permit the authorization of such conflicts.
The directors may and Articles of Association see Documents on display on page 137. exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, except that the At the AGMs held on 17 April 2008 and 15 April 2010, shareholders amount remaining undischarged of all moneys borrowed by the company voted to adopt new Articles of Association, largely to take account of shall not, without approval of the shareholders, exceed the amount paid up changes in UK company law brought about by the Act.
Further on the share capital plus the aggregate of the amount of the capital and amendments to the Articles of Association were approved by shareholders revenue reserves of the company.
Variation of the borrowing power of the at our AGM held on 15 April 2010.
These amendments reflect the full board may only be affected by amending the Articles of Association.
implementation of the Act, among other matters.
Remuneration of non-executive directors shall be determined in the aggregate by resolution of the shareholders.
Remuneration of executive Objects and purposes directors is determined by the remuneration committee.
This committee is The provisions regulating the operations of the company, known as its made up of non-executive directors only.
There is no requirement of share objects, were historically stated in a companys memorandum.
The Act ownership for a directors qualification.
abolished the need to have object provisions and so at the companys last AGM shareholders approved the removal of its objects clause together Dividend rights: other rights to share in company profits: with all other provisions of its Memorandum that, by virtue of the Act, are capital calls treated as forming part of the companys Articles of Association.
If recommended by the directors of BP, BP shareholders may, by resolution, declare dividends but no such dividend may be declared in excess of the Directors amount recommended by the directors.
The directors may also pay interim The business and affairs of BP shall be managed by the directors.
The dividends without obtaining shareholder approval.
No dividend may be paid companys Articles of Association provide that directors may be appointed other than out of profits available for distribution, as determined under IFRS by the existing directors or by the shareholders in a general meeting.
Dividends on ordinary shares are payable only after payment person appointed by the directors will hold office only until the next general of dividends on BP preference shares.
Any dividend unclaimed after a meeting and will then be eligible for re-election by the shareholders.
period of 12 years from the date of declaration of such dividend shall be The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a director forfeited and reverts to BP.
voting in respect of any contract or arrangement in which the director has a The directors have the power to declare and pay dividends in any material interest other than by virtue of such directors interest in shares currency provided that a sterling equivalent is announced.
It is not the in the company.
However, in the absence of some other material interest companys intention to change its current policy of paying dividends in not indicated below, a director is entitled to vote and to be counted in a US dollars.
quorum for the purpose of any vote relating to a resolution concerning the At the companys last AGM, shareholders approved the introduction following matters: of a Scrip Dividend Programme Programme and to include provisions in The giving of security or indemnity with respect to any money lent or the Articles of Association to enable the company to operate the obligation taken by the director at the request or benefit of the company Programme.
The Programme enables ordinary shareholders and BP ADS or any of its subsidiaries.
holders to elect to receive new fully paid ordinary shares or BP ADSs in Any proposal in which the director is interested, concerning the the case of BP ADS holders instead of cash.
The operation of the underwriting of company securities or debentures or the giving of any Programme is always subject to the directors decision to make the scrip security to a third party for a debt or obligation of the company or any of offer available in respect of any particular dividend.
Should the directors its subsidiaries.
decide not to offer the scrip in respect of any particular dividend, cash will Any proposal concerning any other company in which the director is automatically be paid instead.
interested, directly or indirectly whether as an officer or shareholder or Apart from shareholders rights to share in BPs profits by dividend otherwise provided that the director and persons connected with such if any is declared or announced, the Articles of Association provide that director are not the holder or holders of 1% or more of the voting the directors may set aside: interest in the shares of such company.
A special reserve fund out of the balance of profits each year to make Proposals concerning the modification of certain retirement up any deficit of cumulative dividend on the BP preference shares.
benefits schemes under which the director may benefit and that A general reserve out of the balance of profits each year, which shall be have been approved by either the UK Board of Inland Revenue or applicable for any purpose to which the profits of the company may by the shareholders.
This may include capitalization of such sum, Any proposal concerning the purchase or maintenance of any insurance pursuant to an ordinary shareholders resolution, and distribution to policy under which the director may benefit.
shareholders as if it were distributed by way of a dividend on the ordinary shares or in paying up in full unissued ordinary shares for allotment and distribution as bonus shares.
Any such sums so deposited may be distributed in accordance with the manner of distribution of dividends as described above.
Holders of shares are not subject to calls on capital by the company, provided that the amounts required to be paid on issue have been paid off.
All shares are fully paid.
108 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Corporate governance Corporate governance Voting rights Shareholders meetings and notices The Articles of Association of the company provide that voting on Shareholders must provide BP with a postal or electronic address in the UK resolutions at a shareholders meeting will be decided on a poll other than to be entitled to receive notice of shareholders meetings.
In certain resolutions of a procedural nature, which may be decided on a show of circumstances, BP may give notices to shareholders by advertisement in hands.
If voting is on a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or UK newspapers.
Holders of BP ADSs are entitled to receive notices under by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held and two votes for every the terms of the deposit agreement relating to BP ADSs.
The substance 5 in nominal amount of BP preference shares held.
If voting is on a show and timing of notices is described above under the heading Voting rights.
of hands, each shareholder who is present at the meeting in person or Under the Articles of Association, the AGM of shareholders will be whose duly appointed proxy is present in person will have one vote, held within the six-month period once every year.
All general meetings shall regardless of the number of shares held, unless a poll is requested.
be held at a time and place determined by the directors within the UK.
If Shareholders do not have cumulative voting rights.
any shareholders meeting is adjourned for lack of quorum, notice of the Holders of record of ordinary shares may appoint a proxy, including time and place of the meeting may be given in any lawful manner, including a beneficial owner of those shares, to attend, speak and vote on their electronically.
Powers exist for action to be taken either before or at the behalf at any shareholders meeting.
meeting by authorized officers to ensure its orderly conduct and safety of Record holders of BP ADSs are also entitled to attend, speak and those attending.
vote at any shareholders meeting of BP by the appointment by the approved depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank, of them as proxies in Limitations on voting and shareholding respect of the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Each such There are no limitations imposed by English law or the companys proxy may also appoint a proxy.
Alternatively, holders of BP ADSs are Memorandum or Articles of Association on the right of non-residents or entitled to vote by supplying their voting instructions to the depositary, foreign persons to hold or vote the companys ordinary shares or BP ADSs, who will vote the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs in accordance other than limitations that would generally apply to all of the shareholders.
Proxies may be delivered electronically.
Disclosure of interests in shares Matters are transacted at shareholders meetings by the proposing The Act permits a public company, on written notice, to require any person and passing of resolutions, of which there are two types: ordinary or whom the company believes to be or, at any time during the three years special.
An annual general meeting must be held once in every year.
prior to the issue of the notice, to have been interested in its voting shares, An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a majority of to disclose certain information with respect to those interests.
Failure to the votes of those persons voting at a meeting at which there is a quorum.
supply the information required may lead to disenfranchisement of the A special resolution requires the affirmative vote of not less than threerelevant shares and a prohibition on their transfer and receipt of dividends fourths of the persons voting at a meeting at which there is a quorum.
and other payments in respect of those shares.
In this context the term Any AGM requires 21 days notice.
The notice period for a general meeting interest is widely defined and will generally include an interest of any kind is 14 days subject to the company obtaining annual shareholder approval, whatsoever in voting shares, including any interest of a holder of BP ADSs.
failing which, a 21-day notice period will apply.
Liquidation rights: redemption provisions In the event of a liquidation of BP, after payment of all liabilities and applicable deductions under UK laws and subject to the payment of secured creditors, the holders of BP preference shares would be entitled to the sum of i the capital paid up on such shares plus, ii accrued and unpaid dividends and iii a premium equal to the higher of a 10% of the capital paid up on the BP preference shares and b the excess of the average market price over par value of such shares on the LSE during the previous six months.
The remaining assets if any would be divided pro rata among the holders of ordinary shares.
Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the holders of any class of shares, BP may issue any share with such preferred, deferred or other special rights, or subject to such restrictions as the shareholders by resolution determine or, in the absence of any such resolutions, by determination of the directors, and may issue shares that are to be or may be redeemed.
Variation of rights The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the consent in writing of holders of 75% of the shares of that class or on the adoption of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles of Association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that the quorum with respect to a meeting to change the rights attached to the preference shares is 10% or more of the shares of that class, and the quorum to change the rights attached to the ordinary shares is one-third or more of the shares of that class.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 109 110 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
