Business review Business review Our performance The recordable injury frequency RIF, which measures the number of recordable injuries to the BP workforce per 200,000 hours worked, was 0.32.
This is lower than 2009 when it was 0.39 and 2008 when it was 0.43.
Key statistics Our day away from work case frequency DAFWCF in 2010 was 0.063.
$ million This is higher than 2009 when it was 0.038 and 2008 when it was 0.057.
2010 2009 2008 This increase is largely due to day-away-from-work cases resulting from the a Sales and other operating revenues 66,266 57,626 86,170 Gulf of Mexico incident and an aviation incident in Canada.
Replacement cost profit before In 2010, the number of reported Loss of Primary Containment b interest and tax 30,886 24,800 38,308 LOPC incidents in Exploration and Production was 194, down from 321 in Capital expenditure and acquisitions 17,753 14,896 22,227 2009.
Excluding the impact of the Gulf of Mexico incident, the number of $ per barrel reported oil spills equal to or larger than 1 barrel during 2010 was 116, up c Average BP crude oil realizations 77.54 59.86 95.43 from 112 in 2009.
This is the first year since 1999 that the number of c Average BP NGL realizations 42.78 29.60 52.30 reported spills has increased.
c d Average BP liquids realizations 73.41 56.26 90.20 Average West Texas Intermediate Financial and operating performance e oil price 79.45 61.92 100.06 We continually seek access to resources and in 2010, in addition to new e Average Brent oil price 79.50 61.67 97.26 access resulting from acquisitions as detailed on page 43, this included $ per thousand cubic feet Azerbaijan, where BP and the State Oil Company of the Republic of c Average BP natural gas realizations 3.97 3.25 6.00 Azerbaijan SOCAR signed a new 30-year PSA on joint exploration and c Average BP US natural gas realizations 3.88 3.07 6.77 development of the Shafag-Asiman structure in the Caspian: China, where $ per million British thermal units we farmed into Block 42 05 in the deepwater South China Sea: the Gulf of f Average Henry Hub gas price 4.39 3.99 9.04 Mexico, where we were awarded 18 blocks through the Outer Continental pence per therm Shelf Lease Sale 213, eleven of which have been executed and seven have Average UK National Balancing Point yet to be executed: Indonesia, where we were awarded the North Arafura e gas price 42.45 30.85 58.12 PSC onshore Papua: Jordan, where on 3 January 2010, we received thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day approval from the Government of Jordan to join the state-owned National g h Total production for subsidiaries 2,492 2,684 2,517 Petroleum Company NPC to exploit the onshore Risha concession in the Total production for equity-accounted north east of the country: onshore US, with further properties in the Eagle g h entities 1,330 1,314 1,321 Ford shale gas play: and the UK, where we were awarded seven blocks in the 26th offshore licensing round.
Total of subsidiaries and g h Since the start of 2011, we have been awarded four blocks in the equity-accounted entities 3,822 3,998 3,838 Ceduna Basin, offshore South Australia and, subject to partner and million barrels of oil equivalent government approval, we have signed a new agreement with the China Net proved reserves for subsidiaries 12,077 12,621 12,562 National Offshore Oil Corporation CNOOC to explore Block 43 11 in the Net proved reserves for South China Sea.
We have also announced a strategic global alliance with equity-accounted entities 5,994 5,671 5,585 Rosneft, which includes an agreement to explore and develop three licence Total of subsidiaries and blocks in Russias South Kara Sea.
See Legal proceedings on page 133 for equity-accounted entities 18,071 18,292 18,147 information on an interim injunction, granted by the English High Court on a Includes sales between businesses.
1 February 2011 and effective until 11 March 2011, restraining BP from b Includes profit after interest and tax of equity-accounted entities.
taking any further steps in relation to the Rosneft transactions pending the c Realizations are based on sales of consolidated subsidiaries only, which excludes equity-accounted entities.
d Crude oil and natural gas liquids.
On 21 February 2011, Reliance Industries Limited and BP e All traded days average.
f announced their intention to form an upstream joint venture in which BP Henry Hub First of Month Index.
will take a 30% stake in 23 oil and gas production-sharing contracts that h E xpressed in thousands of barrels of oil equivalent per day mboe d. Natural gas is converted to oil Reliance operates in India, and a 50:50 joint venture for the sourcing and equivalent at 5.8 billion cubic feet 1 million barrels.
marketing of gas in India.
See page 43 for further information.
In November 2010, we announced the Hodoa gas discovery in the 2010 performance deepwater West Nile Delta area of Egypt.
Safety and operational risk Three major projects came onstream in 2010.
Production In Exploration and Production, safety, both process and personal, remains commenced at the In Salah Gas compression project in Algeria, the Great our highest priority.
As described above, the organizational and governance White field in the Gulf of Mexico, and the Noel field in Canada.
In 2010 we changes in Exploration and Production and S&OR have been designed to took final investment decisions on 15 projects.
ensure we achieve our objectives in this area.
In addition, BPs operating Production was lower than last year, largely due to the impact of management system OMS provides us with a systematic framework for events in the Gulf of Mexico.
After adjusting for the effect of entitlement safe, reliable and efficient operations.
By the end of 2010 all of our changes in our PSAs and the effect of acquisitions and disposals, exploration and production operations had completed their transition underlying production was 2% lower than 2009.
sustained production from the Rumaila field in Iraq at 10% above the initial Safety performance is monitored by a suite of input and output production rate in 2009 to achieve the Improved Production Target, which is metrics which focus on personal and process safety including operational the first significant milestone in the rehabilitation of Rumaila.
In 2010, integrity, health and all aspects of compliance.
full-year production growth in TNK-BP was 2.5%.
In 2010, excluding the impact of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, further Sales and other operating revenues for 2010 were $66 billion, information on which can be found on page 34, Exploration and Production compared with $58 billion in 2009 and $86 billion in 2008.
The increase in had one workforce fatality.
2010 primarily reflected higher oil and gas realizations, partly offset by lower production.
The decrease in 2009 primarily reflected lower oil and gas realizations.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 41 Business review The replacement cost profit before interest and tax for 2010 was Upstream activities $30,886 million, compared with $24,800 million for the previous year.
Exploration 2010 included net non-operating gains of $3,199 million, primarily gains on The group explores for oil and natural gas under a wide range of licensing, disposals that completed during the year partly offset by impairment joint venture and other contractual agreements.
We may do this alone or, charges and fair value losses on embedded derivatives.
See page 25 for more frequently, with partners.
BP acts as operator for many of these further information on non-operating items.
In addition, fair value ventures.
accounting effects had an unfavourable impact of $3 million relative to Our exploration and appraisal costs, excluding lease acquisitions, in managements measure of performance.
See page 26 for further 2010 were $2,706 million, compared with $2,805 million in 2009 and information on fair value accounting effects.
These costs included exploration and appraisal The primary additional factors contributing to the 25% increase in drilling expenditures, which were capitalized within intangible fixed assets, replacement cost profit before interest and tax were higher realizations, and geological and geophysical exploration costs, which were charged to lower depreciation and higher earnings from equity-accounted entities, income as incurred.
Approximately 80% of 2010 exploration and appraisal mainly TNK-BP, partly offset by lower production, a significantly lower costs were directed towards appraisal activity.
In 2010, we participated in contribution from gas marketing and trading and higher production taxes.
479 gross 95.5 net exploration and appraisal wells in 10 countries.
The Total capital expenditure including acquisitions and asset exchanges principal areas of exploration and appraisal activity were Egypt, the in 2010 was $17.8 billion 2009 $14.9 billion and 2008 $22.2 billion.
For deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Libya, the North Sea, Oman and onshore US.
further information on acquisitions and disposals see pages 43-44.
Total exploration expense in 2010 of $843 million 2009 $1,116 Development expenditure of subsidiaries incurred in 2010, million and 2008 $882 million included the write-off of expenses related excluding midstream activities, was $9.7 billion, compared with to unsuccessful drilling activities in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico $10.4 billion in 2009 and $11.8 billion in 2008.
$161 million, the North Sea $42 million, Libya $26 million, Angola $24 million and others $4 million.
It also included $157 million related to Prior years comparative financial information decommissioning of idle infrastructure, as required by the Bureau of Ocean The replacement cost profit before interest and tax for the year ended Energy Management Regulation and Enforcements Notice of Lessees 31 December 2009 of $24,800 million included a net credit for non- 2010 G05 issued in October 2010. operating items of $2,265 million, with the most significant items being Reserves booking from new discoveries will depend on the results gains on the sale of operations primarily from the disposal of our 46% of ongoing technical and commercial evaluations, including appraisal drilling.
stake in LukArco, the sale of our 49.9% interest in Kazakhstan Pipeline Ventures LLC and the sale of BP West Java Limited in Indonesia and fair Proved reserves replacement value gains on embedded derivatives.
In addition, fair value accounting Total hydrocarbon proved reserves, on an oil equivalent basis including effects had a favourable impact of $919 million relative to managements equity-accounted entities, comprised 18,071mmboe 12,077mmboe for measure of performance.
subsidiaries and 5,994mmboe for equity-accounted entities at The replacement cost profit before interest and tax for the year 31 December 2010, a decrease of 1% decrease of 4% for subsidiaries and ended 31 December 2008 was $38,308 million and included a net charge increase of 6% for equity-accounted entities compared with the for non-operating items of $990 million, with the most significant items 31 December 2009 reserves of 18,292mmboe 12,621mmboe for being net impairment charges and net fair value losses on embedded subsidiaries and 5,671mmboe for equity-accounted entities.
Natural gas derivatives, partly offset by the reversal of certain provisions.
The represented about 41% 54% for subsidiaries and 14% for equityimpairment charge included a $517 million write-down of our investment in accounted entities of these reserves.
The change includes a net decrease Rosneft based on its quoted market price at the end of the year.
In addition, from acquisitions and disposals of 307mmboe 303mmboe net decrease fair value accounting effects had an unfavourable impact of $282 million for subsidiaries and 4mmboe net decrease for equity-accounted entities.
relative to managements measure of performance.
Acquisitions occurred in Azerbaijan, Canada, Norway and the US.
Disposals The primary additional factor contributing to the 35% decrease in occurred in Canada, Egypt and the US.
the replacement cost profit before interest and tax for the year ended The proved reserves replacement ratio is the extent to which 31 December 2009 compared with the year ended 31 December 2008 was production is replaced by proved reserves additions.
This ratio is expressed lower realizations.
In addition, the result was impacted by lower income in oil equivalent terms and includes changes resulting from revisions to from equity-accounted entities and higher depreciation but the result previous estimates, improved recovery and extensions and discoveries.
For benefited from higher production and lower costs, as a result of our 2010 the proved reserves replacement ratio excluding acquisitions and continued focus on cost management.
disposals was 106% 129% in 2009 and 121% in 2008 for subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities, 74% for subsidiaries alone and 166% for Outlook equity-accounted entities alone.
In 2011, we will seek to continuously drive operational risk reduction In 2010, net additions to the groups proved reserves excluding through the S&OR function.
Through the restructuring into divisions, we production and sales and purchases of reserves-in-place amounted to intend to drive functional excellence across the lifecycle of exploration, 1,503mmboe 686mmboe for subsidiaries and 818mmboe for equitydevelopments and production and continue to focus on building our accounted entities, principally through improved recovery from, and technological and human capability for the future.
extensions to, existing fields and discoveries of new fields.
Of our We believe that our portfolio of assets remains well positioned to subsidiary reserves additions through improved recovery from, and compete and grow value in a range of external conditions.
We will continue extensions to, existing fields and discoveries of new fields, approximately to actively manage our portfolio with a focus on value growth.
67% were associated with new projects and were proved undeveloped reserves additions.
The remaining additions are in existing developments where they represent a mixture of proved developed and proved undeveloped reserves.
Volumes added in 2010 principally relied on the application of conventional technologies.
The principal reserves additions in our subsidiaries were in the US Arkoma, Hawkville, Kuparuk, Mars, Prudhoe Bay, Thunder Horse, Tubular Bells, the UK Kinnoull, Loyal, Machar, Schiehallion, Egypt West Nile Delta, Trinidad Immortelle and Iraq Rumaila.
The principal reserves additions in our equity-accounted entities were in Argentina Cerro Dragon, Bolivia Margarita, Canada Sunrise and in Russia Samotlor, , Talinskoye, Uvat.
42 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review Fourteen per cent of our proved reserves are associated with  Xerelete, pre-salt Wahoo and Itaipu and the producing sharing agreements PSAs.
The main countries in which we operated Polvo field.
under PSAs in 2010 were Algeria, Angola, Azerbaijan, Egypt, Indonesia, In the US deepwater Gulf of Mexico, BP gained a high-quality portfolio Iraq and Vietnam.
with interests in some 240 leases, with a particular focus on the emerging Paleogene play in the ultra-deepwater.
The addition of Production Devons 30% interest in the major Paleogene discovery, Kaskida, gave Our total hydrocarbon production during 2010 averaged 3,822 thousand BP a 100% interest in the project.
The assets also included interests in barrels of oil equivalent per day mboe d. This comprised 2,493mboe d for four producing oilfields: Magnolia, Merganser, Nansen, and Zia, and one subsidiaries and 1,329mboe d for equity-accounted entities, a decrease of non-producing asset.
7% decreases of 12% for liquids and 2% for gas and an increase of 1% In Azerbaijan, acquisition of Devons 3.29% after pre-emption increases of 1% for liquids and 3% for gas respectively compared with exercised by some of the partners stake in the BP-operated Azeri- 2009.
In aggregate, after adjusting for entitlement impacts in our PSAs and Chirag-Gunashli development increased BPs interest to 37.43%.
the effect of acquisitions and disposals, production was 2% lower than The undeveloped Kirby oil sands leases are in the south-east of the 2009.
For subsidiaries, 39% of our production was in the US, 18% in Athabasca region of Alberta, close to the Devon-operated Jackfish Trinidad and 9% in the UK.
development, which started production in 2007.
BP and Devon have We expect production in 2011 to be lower than in 2010 as a result agreed an initial appraisal programme to assess the significant potential of disposals, lower production from the Gulf of Mexico and the increased of the Kirby acreage and to establish a long-term development plan.
In turnaround activity to improve the long-term reliability of the assets.
As a addition to forming the joint venture, BP and Devon have agreed to result of these factors, reported production in 2011 is expected to be enter into a long-term heavy crude off-take agreement for production around 3,400mboe d. The actual outcome will depend on the exact timing from the Kirby development as well as a portion of the production from of disposals, the pace of getting back to work in the Gulf of Mexico, OPEC some of Devons other oil sands assets.
quotas and the impact of the oil price on our PSAs.
In the Gulf of Mexico, Also in March 2010, BP announced that it had entered into a partnership there is industry-wide uncertainty around the pace at which new drilling in Canada with Value Creation Inc. VCI to develop the Terre fide Grace activity will be restored following the lifting of the drilling moratorium in TDG oil sands lease, one of VCIs large oil sands leases, in the October 2010.
No new permits for the drilling of deepwater wells except Athabasca region.
BP is now the operator and majority partner for the for water injection and side track wells had been issued to any company partnership, with VCI and BP together providing strategic direction and until the end of February 2011.
BP has clear criteria for safely restarting guidance.
TDG is a large, contiguous 185,000 acres of high-quality oil drilling and completions activity, which include meeting all new regulatory sands land with substantial delineation of the East Graceland area and requirements, addressing each of the recommendations of our internal further potential in the less-delineated remainder of the leases.
In 2010, investigation, compliance with our own standards and ensuring we have capital expenditure in relation to the formation of this partnership was the right capability in place, along with appropriate contractor management.
The group and its equity-accounted entities have numerous On 1 September 2010, BP increased its equity holding in the significant long-term sales commitments in their various business activities, all of Norwegian Valhall and Hod fields by acquiring 7.9% interest in the which are expected to be sourced from supplies available to the group that Valhall field and 12.5% in the Hod field from Total.
The transaction are not subject to priorities, curtailments or other restrictions.
No single increased the equity holding in Valhall to 35.95% and Hod to 37.5%.
contract or group of related contracts is material to the group.
The final purchase consideration was $492 million.
The acquisition is expected to strengthen BPs existing business in Norway and the Acquisitions and disposals North Sea.
During 2010, we continued to grow our portfolio of assets through In September 2010, BP announced an agreement with Devon Energy in acquisitions such as the transaction with Devon Energy, which significantly which BP acquired 40.82% of Devons existing share in Block 42 05 in enhanced our position in a number of core strategic areas in Brazil, the South China Sea.
The remaining 59.18% of Devons share was Azerbaijan and deepwater Gulf of Mexico, and the increase in our equity purchased by Chevron, who will be the operator in the exploration holding in the Valhall and Hod fields, potentially very significant fields in the phase under the amendment agreements to the production-sharing North Sea with technological upsides.
All pre-development spending will be incurred We also undertook a number of disposals as part of our previously by BP and Chevron.
During the development phase, CNOOC has the announced portfolio high-grading review.
In total, these transactions right to back-in to a 51% share in the project thus leaving working generated $17 billion in proceeds during 2010 including prepayments of interest shares as follows: BP 20%, CNOOC 51%, Chevron 29%.
$6.2 billion for disposals yet to complete.
See Financial statements On 24 January 2011, BP exercised a preferential right to acquire Shells Note 4 on page 163.
With regards to proved reserves, 102mmboe were working interest in the Marlin and Dorado producing fields for a total acquired in 2010, all within our subsidiaries while 408mmboe were consideration of $257 million.
This brings BPs working interest in both disposed of approximately 404mmboe for subsidiaries and approximately fields to 100%.
On 21 February 2011, Reliance Industries Limited and BP announced that they intend to form an upstream joint venture in which BP will take Acquisitions a 30% stake in 23 oil and gas production-sharing contracts that In March 2010, BP announced a broad-ranging transaction with Devon Reliance operates in India, including the producing KG D6 block, and Energy to enhance its position in core strategic areas.
BP agreed to pay form a 50:50 joint venture for the sourcing and marketing of gas in India.
Devon Energy $6.9 billion in cash for assets in Brazil, Azerbaijan and the BP will pay Reliance Industries Limited an aggregate consideration of US deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
$7.2 billion, and completion adjustments, for the interests to be In addition, BP sold to Devon Energy a 50% stake in BPs Kirby oil acquired in the 23 production-sharing contracts.
Future performance sands interests in Alberta, Canada, for $500 million.
The parties have payments of up to $1.8 billion could be paid based on exploration agreed to form a 50:50 joint venture, operated by Devon, to pursue the success that results in development of commercial discoveries.
Devon committed to fund an additional Reliance will continue to be the operator under the production-sharing $150 million of capital costs on BPs behalf.
Completion of the transactions is subject to Indian regulatory In Brazil, subject to government and regulatory approvals, the approvals and other customary conditions.
transaction will give BP a diverse and broad deepwater exploration acreage position offshore Brazil with interests in eight licence blocks in the Campos and Camamu-Almada basins, as well as two onshore licences in the Parnaiba basin.
The Campos basin blocks include three BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 43 Business review Disposals During 2010, BP also announced its intention to divest its interest in the In July 2010, BP announced that it had entered into several agreements Tuscaloosa fields in Louisiana, the Wattenberg plant in Colorado and its to sell upstream assets in the US, Canada and Egypt to Apache NGL business in Canada.
Corporation and an existing partner that exercised pre-emption rights.
On 22 February 2011, BP announced its intention to sell its interests in a The deals, together worth a total of $7 billion, comprise BPs Permian number of operated oil and gas fields in the UK.
The assets involved are Basin assets in Texas and south-east New Mexico, US: its Western the Wytch Farm onshore oilfield in Dorset and all of BPs operated gas Canadian upstream gas assets: and the Western Desert business fields in the southern North Sea, including associated pipeline concessions and East Badr El-din exploration concession in Egypt.
infrastructure and the Dimlington terminal.
BP aims to complete the These transactions were completed during 2010. disposals around the end of 2011, subject to receipt of suitable offers On 3 August 2010, BP announced that it had agreed to sell its oil and and regulatory and third party approvals.
The assets do not yet meet gas exploration, production and transportation business in Colombia to the criteria to be reclassified as non-current assets held for sale and it is a consortium of Ecopetrol, Colombias national oil company 51%, and not yet possible to estimate the financial effect of these intended Talisman of Canada 49%.
The two companies agreed to pay BP a total transactions.
of $1.9 billion in cash, subject to customary post-completion price adjustments, for 100% of the shares in BP Exploration Company The following discussion reviews operations in our Exploration and Colombia Limited BPXC, the wholly-owned BP subsidiary company Production business by continent and country, and lists associated that held BPs oil and gas exploration, production and transportation significant events that occurred in 2010.
Where relevant, BPs percentage interests in Colombia.
Following the approval of the Colombian working interest in oil and gas assets is shown in brackets.
Working interest authorities, completion occurred on 24 January 2011. is the cost-bearing ownership share of an oil or gas lease.
Consequently On 31 August 2010, BP completed the sale of its entire interest in the the percentages disclosed for certain agreements do not necessarily Overthrust assets Painter Complex Gas Plant, Painter Reservoir Unit reflect the percentage interests in reserves and production.
and Whitney Canyon field and inlet facility to Merit Energy Company for $217 million.
Europe On 18 October 2010, BP announced it had reached agreement to sell United Kingdom its upstream businesses and associated interests in Venezuela and BP is the largest producer of hydrocarbons in the UK.
Key aspects of our Vietnam to TNK-BP for a total of $1.8 billion subject to customary activities in the North Sea include a focus on in-field drilling and selected post-completion price adjustments.
The agreement includes BPs new field developments.
interests in the Petroperij, Boquern and PetroMonagas joint ventures In July 2010, the UK Parliaments Energy and Climate Change Select in Venezuela and, in Vietnam, BPs 35% operating interest in the Lan Committee launched an investigation into the safety of deepwater Tay and Lan Do gas fields Block 6.1 and associated pipeline and power drilling in the UK, in light of the accident in the Gulf of Mexico.
Block 6.1 partners, PetroVietnam and ONGC September, BP provided both written and oral evidence to the Videsh Ltd, have waived pre-emption rights to purchase BPs Block 6.1 Committee, as did a number of other operators and organizations with a interest.
BP will retain an economic interest in these assets through its stake in the UK Continental Shelf UKCS.
In the UK, BP has been closely involved in communicating the lessons In October 2010, BP announced it had reached an agreement with its learned from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill to industry and the regulatory partner, Hess Corporation, for the sale of a 20% interest in the Tubular authorities, and has also been widely represented in the Oil Spill Bells field in the Gulf of Mexico.
Hess agreed to acquire the 20% Prevention and Response Advisory Group OSPRAG, a group formed in interest from BP for $40 million and became the operator.
The late May to co-ordinate and lead the UKs response to such incidents.
increased ownership brought Hesss working interest in Tubular Bells to BP has provided support, for example, through the transfer of two 40%.
Chevron holds a 30% interest and BP retains 30%.
Tubular Bells, containment devices to Oil Spill Response Limiteds Southampton which was discovered in 2003, is a deepwater field approximately 135 depot and by leading the design and procurement of a capping stack for miles south-east of New Orleans, Louisiana.
use in the deepwater of the UKCS.
The capping stack project is due for On 25 October 2010, BP announced that it had reached agreement to completion in mid-2011.
sell its recently acquired interests in four mature producing deepwater The European Commission published its policy and pre-legislative oil and gas fields in the US Gulf of Mexico to Marubeni Oil and Gas for communication on offshore safety in October 2010.
BP acquired the interests in the fields Magnolia, draft legislative package is now with the European Commission Merganser, Nansen and Zia from Devon Energy earlier in 2010 as services, for expected publication in spring 2011. part of the wider acquisition of assets in the Gulf of Mexico, Brazil BP is scheduled to drill a deepwater exploration well in the west of and Azerbaijan, but determined that they did not fit well with the rest Shetland during 2011 and, together with its drilling contractor, plans to of the groups assets in the region and would be of more value to implement all relevant lessons from the Gulf of Mexico accident during another company.
the planning and execution of that well.
Much has already been done On 28 November 2010, BP announced that it had entered into an during 2010 in the North Sea business to further improve the safety of agreement to sell its interests in Pan American Energy PAE to Bridas drilling operations.
PAE is an Argentina-based oil and gas company owned by In October 2010, BP was awarded interests in seven offshore BP 60% and Bridas Corporation 40%.
Bridas Corporation will pay BP exploration blocks in the 26th round of UK Continental Shelf licensing.
a total of $7.06 billion in cash for BPs interest in PAE.
The transaction is Five of these blocks are BP-operated and two are partner-operated.
expected to be completed in 2011.
The transaction excludes the shares This represents the largest licence award for BP in the UK for more than of PAE E&P Bolivia Ltd.
Completion of the transaction is subject to 10 years.
closing conditions including the receipt of all necessary governmental On 27 October 2010, the European Union followed the UN and US in and regulatory approvals.
enacting further restrictive measures against Iran the EU Regulations.
On 14 December 2010, BP announced that it had reached agreement to The EU Regulations target, among other things, legal persons, entities sell its upstream assets in Pakistan to United Energy Group for or bodies outside of Iran that have direct or indirect Iranian ownership.
Subject to certain closing conditions, including the receipt On 16 November 2010, production from the Rhum gas field in the of all necessary governmental and regulatory approvals, closing is central North Sea was suspended pending clarification from the UK anticipated to occur by the end of the first quarter of 2011. government on certain aspects of the EU Regulations.
This action was taken to comply with the notification requirements in the EU Regulations.
Rhum is owned by BP 50% and the Iranian Oil Company 50% under a joint operating agreement dating back to the early 1970s.
44 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review Rest of Europe In 2010, we progressed the previously announced development Our activities in the Rest of Europe are in Norway.
activities for the Liberty oilfield, which is located on federal leases On 9 November 2010, the development of the Norwegian oil and gas about six miles offshore in the Beaufort Sea, and east of the Prudhoe field Skarv reached a significant milestone with the naming ceremony Bay oilfield.
The planned development includes up to six ultra-extended of the Skarv Floating Production, Storage and Offloading FPSO unit.
reach wells, including four producers and two injectors, to be drilled The ceremony took place in Geoje in South Korea.
The vessel will from existing infrastructure in the BP-operated Endicott field to operate in the Norwegian Sea close to the Arctic Circle, 210km off the minimize the onshore and offshore environmental footprint.
As part of a coast of Nordland.
It is due to start production at the Skarv oil and gas continuous evaluation of project design, materials, and systems, we field in the autumn of 2011. suspended physical construction of the rig on-site in the fourth quarter.
In 2010, the Valhall redevelopment project passed a major milestone Following a review of engineering and design elements, and resolution with the completion of the heavy lift programme.
The main deck and of any issues, we plan to continue rig construction.
As this review living quarters were successfully installed offshore in July 2010.
The moves forward, we will develop a revised project schedule.
BP drilled living quarters are scheduled to be ready for habitation in April 2011, the Liberty discovery well in 1997, and is the operator and sole owner with production start-up from the new facility scheduled for early 2012. of the field.
The Point Thomson Unit PTU was terminated by administrative North America decision of the State of Alaska Department of Natural Resources DNR United States in November 2006 BP 32%.
ExxonMobil, the operator, and the other Our activities within the US take place in three main areas: deepwater Gulf unit owners, including BP, appealed the unit termination in the Alaska of Mexico, Lower 48 states and Alaska.
At the end of 2006, based on the DNRs termination of the Unit, BP wrote off all historical costs associated with the PTU.
In Deepwater Gulf of Mexico January 2009, ExxonMobil was granted permission by the DNR, under For further information on the impact of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and BPs a conditional interim decision, to conduct drilling operations on two of response please see pages 34-39.
Also see page 43 under Production.
the 31 leases comprising the PTU.
On 11 January 2010, the Alaska On 31 March 2010, first oil was achieved from the Great White field Superior Court reversed the DNRs administrative decision to terminate BP 33.3% located in the ultra-deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico.
The DNR petitioned the State of Alaska Supreme Court for Production is processed by the Perdido Regional Host floating limited review, and the petition was granted in the second quarter of production facility BP 27.5%, an integrated spar and drilling rig.
As of the end of 2010, the case is still pending before the development is operated by Shell on behalf of BP and Chevron.
ExxonMobil and the State of Alaska have White marks the first development of a Paleogene Lower Tertiary also informed the other unit owners, including BP, that they are reservoir in the Gulf of Mexico and is expected to represent 80% of the negotiating a settlement agreement.
BP has asked to participate in estimated total production through the Perdido Host.
In September 2010, the final investment decision was made for the Mars B BP 28.5% deepwater development, located approximately Canada 130 miles south of New Orleans, Louisiana in the Gulf of Mexico.
In Canada, BP is focused on one of the worlds largest petroleum resource The development will include a second tension-leg platform, named basins, Canadas oil sands, using in-situ technology.
In-situ technology is Olympus, to enhance recovery from the Mars field.
The Mars B different to mining in that it limits land disturbance and requires no tailing development will draw production from eight Mississippi Canyon blocks ponds.
The in-situ technology that BP Canada plans to use is steam- 762, 763, 764, 805, 806, 807, 850 and 851. assisted gravity drainage SAGD which uses the injection of steam into the In March 2010, BP participated in lease sale 213.
Following this sale we reservoir to warm the bitumen so that it can flow to the surface through were awarded 18 leases, 11 of which have now been executed, a recovery wells.
BP holds an interest in several oil sands leases through the further seven leases were awarded but have not yet been executed.
Sunrise Oil Sands and Terre fide Grace Oil Sands partnerships and the Pike Oil Sands joint venture.
BP also develops and produces natural gas and Lower 48 states natural gas liquids, markets natural gas, is the largest marketer in Canada of Our North America Gas business operates onshore in the Lower 48 states natural gas liquids and has significant exploration interests in the Canadian producing natural gas, natural gas liquids and coalbed methane across Beaufort Sea.
In 2010, we drilled over 200 wells as operator across the US, In November 2010, phase 1 of the Sunrise oil sands project BP 50% including start-up operations in the Eagle Ford shale.
Shale gas assets are was sanctioned.
BP and its partner, Husky Energy Inc, have committed becoming an increasingly important part of our North America Gas business.
funding to build facilities, drill wells and create the operational systems We have not included any proved undeveloped reserves expected and resources to bring Sunrise phase 1 into production.
First production to commence development beyond five years in our disclosed volumes, of bitumen is expected in 2014, building to 60,000 barrels per day although we are committed to development beyond five years in gross capacity over the subsequent 24 months.
Long-term drilling and many fields.
facility development is planned to continue thereafter in order to maintain that rate for 40 years or more.
Future additional phases of Alaska Sunrise are being contemplated.
BP operates 15 North Slope oilfields including Prudhoe Bay, Endicott, In July 2010, BP signed a joint operating agreement with ExxonMobil Northstar, and Milne Point and four North Slope pipelines, and owns a Canada Limited and Imperial Oil Resources Ventures Limited, a significant interest in six other producing fields.
subsidiary of ExxonMobil, to exchange 50% of BPs working interest in Two key aspects of BPs business strategy in Alaska are the EL 449 field for 50% working interest in Imperial Exxons EL 446 commercializing the large undeveloped natural gas resource within our field, both in the Canadian Beaufort Sea.
Under this agreement, 26.4% interest in Prudhoe Bay and unlocking the large undeveloped operatorship was assigned to Imperial with BP remaining actively viscous and heavy oil resources within existing North Slope fields through involved in major exploration decisions.
the application of advanced technology.
In 2010, interpretation of the 2009 3D-seismic survey of licences in the Canadian Beaufort Sea commenced and access to seismic data for the EL 446 licence was acquired.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 45 Business review South America Libya Trinidad & Tobago In Libya, BP is in partnership with the Libyan Investment Corporation LIC BP holds exploration and production licences covering 904,000 acres to explore acreage in the onshore Ghadames and offshore Sirt basins, offshore of the east coast.
Facilities include 13 offshore platforms and one covered under the exploration and production-sharing agreement ratified in onshore processing facility.
Production comprises oil, gas and NGLs.
BPs net assets in Libya at 31 December 2010 On 21 April 2010, BP Trinidad & Tobagos bpTT Serrette platform was were $212 million.
installed in Trinidad waters in bpTTs east coast offshore acreage.
The The first phase of the offshore 3D seismic acquisition was completed in Serrette platform is located 51 kilometres north of bpTTs Mango October 2009, fulfilling BPs marine 3D seismic commitment.
It represents the first development in the northern area programme covered a surface area of 17,000 square kilometres and of bpTTs Columbus Basin acreage and has been equipped to enable was the largest offshore 3D proprietary survey ever undertaken by an future development opportunities in this area.
Serrette, bpTTs international energy company.
It involved the deployment of the largest thirteenth offshore production platform, is the fifth normally unmanned and most powerful data-processing facility ever installed on a seismic installation NUI, designed and constructed in Trinidad & Tobago.
The vessel and included a technology trial of a multi-azimuth MAZ seismic Serrette project was sanctioned in May 2009 and has a design capacity technique, the first ever three-azimuth seismic survey in Libyan waters.
of 1 billion cubic feet per day and will deliver a peak production of 500 The onshore 3D seismic acquisition in BPs Ghadames acreage million standard cubic feet per day.
The platform will tie into the Cassia commenced in November 2008 and is ongoing.
Drilling is expected to commence in the first quarter of 2011 kilometre commitment represents one of the largest single 3D land and production is planned for the second quarter of 2011. seismic commitments in the industry.
The programme involves the first at-scale deployment of the ISS Africa seismic acquisition technology, a cutting-edge proprietary BP Angola technique using independent simultaneous sources that is allowing BP is present in four major deepwater licences offshore Angola Blocks 15, BP to operate one of the most efficient land seismic programmes in 17, 18 and 31 and is operator in Blocks 18 and 31.
In addition, BP holds a the world today.
The technology has enabled BP to acquire high-quality, 13.6% equity in the first Angolan LNG project.
densely-sampled 3D land data for the same cost as 3D marine or 2D In August 2010, Total, as operator of Block 17 BP 16.67%, announced land data while minimizing environmental impacts, a major achievement the development of the Cravo Lirio Orquidea Violeta CLOV project and for the industry.
the award of the principal contracts.
This project is the fourth Due to the outbreak of political unrest in Libya, the BP office in Tripoli development in Angolas deepwater offshore Block 17, after Girassol, was closed on 21 February 2011 and our Libyan operations suspended.
Dalia and Pazflor, and is located approximately 140 kilometres from All BP expatriate staff and their families have been evacuated from Luanda and 40 kilometres north-west of Dalia in water depths ranging Libya.
Currently, it is not possible to say what impact the ongoing from 1,100 to 1,400 metres.
The CLOV development will lead to four unrest, potential political changes and international sanctions will have fields coming onstream.
Drilling is expected to start in 2012 and first oil on the now-suspended seismic operations and start-up of the is expected in 2014.
A total of 34 subsea wells are planned to be tied exploration drilling programme which had been scheduled to back to the CLOV FPSO unit, which will have a processing capacity of commence onshore and offshore in 2011.
160mb d and a storage capacity of approximately 1.8 million barrels.
Sanctioned in 2008, PSVM comprises the development of the Pluto, Egypt Saturno, Vnus and Marte fields, in a water depth of approximately BP has a long-standing history in Egypt, successfully operating there for 2,000 metres, some 400 kilometres north-west of Luanda.
To date BP has produced almost 40% of Egypts entire oil commenced the offshore stage of this major project with the arrival of production and supplies more than 35% of the domestic gas demand with several vessels into Angola waters.
Pile installation has been completed its partners.
In 2010, BP Egypt production was 133mboe d. Net assets at and installation of the production flowlines started.
Parallel to this, in 31 December 2010 were $6,107 million.
BP is working to meet Egypts Singapore the PSVM FPSO was modified to include the new Turret domestic market growth by actively exploring in the Nile Delta and Support Structure.
Oil production from PSVM is scheduled to start in investing to add production from existing discoveries.
The remaining discoveries in Block 31 will be developed through In July 2010, BP signed a new agreement with the Egyptian Ministry hubs similar to the first development, PSVM.
of Petroleum and the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation to develop the significant hydrocarbon resources in the North Alexandria Algeria and West Mediterranean deepwater concessions.
Production from the BP is a partner with Sonatrach and Statoil in the In Salah BP 33.15% and West Nile Delta development, at an estimated investment of $9 billion In Amenas BP 45.89% projects, which supply gas to the domestic and gross, is projected to reach up to 1 billion cubic feet per day, providing a European markets.
BP is also in a joint venture with Sonatrach in the major new source of gas for the domestic market in Egypt.
The first Rhourde El Baguel REB oilfield BP 60%, an enhanced oil recovery phase will develop gas and associated condensate through subsea project 75 kilometres east of the Hassi Messaoud oilfield.
In addition, BP is development of five offshore fields into a new purpose-built onshore in a joint venture with Sonatrach in the Bourarhet Sud block, located to the gas plant on Egypts Mediterranean coast.
First gas is expected in south west of In Amenas.
The new agreement amends the commercial terms and In 2010, the In Salah compressions project successfully achieved the governance structure for the two concessions located in the first gas.
West Nile Delta, enabling BP and its partner, RWE Dea, to proceed During 2010, the next phase of the In Amenas development was with the development.
approved with the award of the engineering primary contracts for On 24 November 2010, BP announced that it has made a significant compression.
The In Salah Southern Fields project is expected to gas discovery in the deepwater West Nile Delta area.
The Hodoa be approved in early 2011 with first gas for both projects expected discovery is located in the West Mediterranean deepwater Nile Delta by 2014. concession, some 80 kilometres northwest of Alexandria.
The In September 2010, the Algerian government approved an extension to WMDW-7 well was drilled to a depth of 6,350 metres and is the first the second prospecting period for the Bourarhet Sud block.
Oligocene deepwater discovery in the West Nile Delta area.
Further appraisal is under way.
BP operates and holds 80% of the West Mediterranean deepwater concession with RWE Dea holding the remaining 20%.
Hodoa was drilled by the Pride North America semi-submersible rig, in a water depth of 1,077 metres.
46 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review Due to the recent significant political unrest in Cairo and other major On 7 October 2010, BP and the State Oil Company of the Republic of cities in Egypt, the BP Egypt office in Cairo was closed from 28 January Azerbaijan SOCAR signed a new PSA for the joint exploration and for a period of 10 days.
Furthermore, BP expatriate staff and their development of the Shafag-Asiman structure in the Azerbaijan sector of families were evacuated from Egypt.
The BP Egypt office was the Caspian Sea.
Under the PSA, which is for 30 years, BP will be the reopened on 7 February, and national staff returned to work.
Most operator with 50% working interest and SOCAR will hold the remaining expatriate staff and families returned to Egypt during February.
The block lies some 125 kilometres 78 miles to the south Production at BP Egypts joint ventures GUPCO and PHP was not east of Baku.
It covers an area of some 1,100 square kilometres and has affected by the office closures.
The office closure and staff evacuation never been explored before.
It is located in a deepwater section of will have some short-term impacts on project activity.
On 11 February, about 650-800 metres with reservoir depth of about 7,000 metres.
President Mubarak resigned and handed over power to the Supreme On 24 December 2010, BP and its partners received a five-year PSA Council of the Egyptian Armed Forces.
Currently, it is not possible to extension for Shah Deniz from SOCAR.
The PSA extension allows the say what impact, if any, future politicial changes will have on the Shah Deniz partners to negotiate new long-term gas contracts and BP Egypt business.
underpins the economics of the project.
During 2010, the remedial work necessary following the subsurface Asia gas release that occurred beneath the Central Azeri platform in Western Indonesia September 2008 was completed.
With the exception of two wells that BP has a joint interest in Virginia Indonesia Company LLC VICO, the were abandoned, all wells on the Central Azeri platform are online and operator of the Sanga-Sanga PSA BP 38% supplying gas to Indonesias in service.
largest LNG export facility, the Bontang LNG plant in Kalimantan.
Naftiran Intertrade Co NICO Ltd is an Iranian company and has a less In June 2010, BP was awarded joint study rights with the Indonesia than 10% non-operating interest in Shah Deniz.
NICO was selected as a Directorate General of Oil and Gas on the West Sanga Sanga block Shah Deniz project participant by the State of Azerbaijan when the Shah immediately adjacent to the Sanga-Sanga PSA.
This study involves Deniz PSA was awarded in June 1996.
Under article 30 of the new EU gathering, processing and interpreting data to evaluate the viability of a Regulations concerning restrictive measures against Iran, any body, coalbed methane CBM project in the area.
The award of the joint entity or holder of rights derived from an award of a PSA before the study secures matching rights for BP and its partner over the entry into force of the EU Regulations by a sovereign government other 3,500-square kilometre area when the area will be tendered for than Iran, shall not be considered an Iranian person, entity or body for production-sharing contracts PSC, allowing them to change their bid the purposes of the main operative provisions of the EU Regulations.
to match that of the highest bidder at that time.
Russia a China On 14 January 2011, BP and Rosneft announced a strategic global BPs upstream asset in the country is the Yacheng offshore gas field BP alliance.
Rosneft and BP have agreed to explore and develop three 34.3% in the South China Sea, one of the biggest offshore gas fields in licence blocks in Russias South Kara Sea covering approximately China.
Yacheng supplies the Castle Peak Power Company gas for up to 125,000 square kilometres.
Additionally, BP has agreed to issue 70% of Hong Kongs gas-fired electricity generation.
Additional gas is also 988,694,683 ordinary BP shares to Rosneft representing 5% of BP in sold to the Hainan Holdings Fuel & Chemical Corporation Limited.
a swap where Rosneft has agreed to transfer 1,010,158,003 ordinary On 12 January 2011, BP announced that it had signed a new agreement Rosneft shares to BP representing 9.5% of Rosneft.
Finally, BP and with the China National Offshore Oil Corporation CNOOC for Rosneft have agreed to other joint pursuits including the establishment deepwater exploration in Block 43 11 in the South China Sea, subject to of an Arctic technology centre in Russia, joint technical studies in the partner and government approval.
Russian Arctic beyond the South Kara Sea area and the search for additional international collaboration opportunities.
The share swap Azerbaijan transaction is subject to certain listing approvals and the completion of BP is the largest foreign investor in the country.
BP operates two PSAs, certain administrative requirements.
The share swap agreement is  ACG and Shah Deniz, and also holds other subject to the outcome of arbitration proceedings between BP and Alfa exploration leases.
Petroleum Holdings Limited APH and OGIP Ventures Limited OGIP On 9 March 2010, the steering committee for the development of the who have raised issues relating to the share swap agreement and the ACG field sanctioned investment in the Chirag Oil Project COP.
APH is a company owned by Alpha Group.
APH and OGIP This is the next major capital investment in the ongoing development each own 25% of TNK-BP in which BP also has a 50% shareholding.
of the ACG field in the Azerbaijan sector of the Caspian Sea.
The project See further information in Legal proceedings on page 133. is planned to increase oil production and recovery from the field through a new offshore facility which is designed to fill a critical gap in the TNK-BP field infrastructure between the existing Deepwater Gunashli and TNK-BP, an associate owned by BP 50% and Alfa Group and AccessChirag-1 platforms.
Renova AAR 50%, is an integrated oil company operating in Russia and On 7 June 2010, the government of Azerbaijan and the government of Ukraine.
BPs investment in TNK-BP is reported in the Exploration and Turkey signed a Memorandum of Understanding MOU as part of a Production segment.
The TNK-BP groups major assets are held in OAO package of documents that will regulate the sale of Azerbaijani gas to TNK-BP Holding.
Other assets include the BP-branded retail sites in the Turkey and transit terms for transportation of the gas to the European Moscow region and interests in OAO Rusia Petroleum and the OAO markets through the territory of Turkey.
This marks a major step Slavneft group.
The workforce comprises more than 43,000 people.
forward towards conclusion of required agreements for Shah Deniz Downstream, TNK-BP has interests in six refineries in Russia and Stage 2 gas sales to Turkey and beyond, and is a milestone that Ukraine including Ryazan and Lisichansk and Slavnefts Yaroslavl underpins the significance of the Stage 2 development plans and paves refinery, with throughput of approximately 715 thousand barrels per the way for the project to move forward towards a final investment day.
TNK-BP supplies approximately 1,400 branded filling stations in decision by the Shah Deniz partnership.
At this stage, discussions to Russia and Ukraine and has more than 25% market share of the define the best option for further gas marketing and sales continue and Moscow retail market.
these are led by the Azerbaijani government in conjunction with the a BP already holds a 1.3% investment in Rosneft Oil Company with a carrying value of $948 million.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 47 Business review On 17 February 2010, the TNK-BP board of directors endorsed In September 2010, BP and PetroChina, as the international partners in investment projects totalling more than $1.8 billion to be spent in 2010 the ROO, signed an agreement with the British Council to fund 2012.
Of this amount, $1.7 billion is allocated for two major upstream dedicated English language tuition for approximately 500 employees of projects: full field development and creation of regional infrastructure in the ROO.
The British Council teachers will be based in the Rumaila the eastern part of the Uvat group of fields and further development of oilfield and provide training for the current English language teachers in the Verkhnechonskoye oilfield in East Siberia.
Members of the board SOC and the local North Rumaila Village school.
According to the TSC, also endorsed TNK-BPs participation in a joint venture between BP and PetroChina are required to spend $5 million per year on National Petroleum Consortium LLP and Petroleos fide Venezuela education and this agreement with the British Council is the first major PDVSA, the state oil company of Venezuela, to appraise and develop programme funded as part of this commitment.
the JUNIN 6 block in Venezuela and to release funding of $180 million In December 2010, as a result of increasing activity throughout 2010, to support these activities in 2010 2012. production was sustained at 10% above the initial production rate to On 28 May 2010, TNK-BP announced completion of a deal to acquire achieve the improved production target which is the first significant 100% of the Vik Oil group of companies in the Ukraine.
Previously Vik milestone in the rehabilitation of Rumaila.
Achievement of IPT was Oil owned 118 fuel stations in 13 Ukrainian regions, as well as 8 oil formally agreed with the Government of Iraq on 25 December 2010 and depots, 49 petrol tankers and 122 land plots in various stages of consequently the Contractors BP and PetroChina in accordance with development.
TNK-BP paid $302 million for these interests.
the TSC, become eligible for Service Fees during 2011.
On 28 February 2011, TNK-BP announced that it had sold its interest in the Kovykta gas field to Gazprom.
Australasia Australia Sakhalin BP is one of seven partners in the North West Shelf NWS venture.
Six BP has interests in Sakhalin through a joint venture company, Elvary partners including BP hold an equal 16.67% interest in the infrastructure Neftegaz, in which BP holds a 49% equity interest, and its partner, Rosneft, and oil reserves and an equal 15.78% interest in the gas and condensate holds the remaining 51% interest.
During the year, Elvary Neftegaz, via its reserves, with a seventh partner owning the remaining 5.32% of gas and Russian affiliate, held geological and geophysical studies licences with the condensate reserves.
The NWS venture is currently the principal supplier Russian Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology MNRE to perform to the domestic market in Western Australia and one of the largest LNG a exploration seismic and drilling operations in a licence area off the east export projects in Asia with five LNG trains in operation.
To date, 2D and 3D seismic data has been acquired and The North Rankin 2 project linking a second platform to the existing four wells have been drilled in the licence area.
In 2010, additional North Rankin A platform, sanctioned in 2008, remains on track for electromagnetic surveys were performed in advance of future drilling start-up in late 2012.
On completion, the North Rankin A and North commitments.
In the fourth quarter of 2010, the value of BPs investment Rankin B platforms will operate as a single integrated facility and in Sakhalin was written-down to reflect the current outlook on the future recover low-pressure gas from the North Rankin and Perseus recoverability of the investment.
The Janz-Io field BP 5.375% development, which is part of the Middle East and Pakistan Greater Gorgon project, is on track.
The Jansz-Io field will be developed Production in the Middle East consists principally of the production as part of the Greater Gorgon project, which will comprise three LNG entitlement of associates in Abu Dhabi, where we have equity interests trains, each with a capacity of 5 million tonnes per annum mtpa, on of 9.5% and 14.67% in onshore and offshore concessions respectively.
Barrow Island, with first gas expected in 2014.
As part of this, a On 3 January 2010, BP received approval from the government of unitization and unit operating agreement has been executed with the Jordan to join the state-owned National Petroleum Company to exploit joint venture partners and sales and purchase agreements for the the onshore Risha concession in the north-east of the country.
BP wellhead sale of raw gas and repurchase of LNG ex-Barrow Island have established an office in February and has started its exploration and been executed between BP and Shell.
appraisal work programme, including commencement of a In January 2011, BP announced that it had been awarded four 5,000-square kilometre seismic programme.
deepwater offshore exploration blocks in the Ceduna Sub Basin within On 11 October 2010, after 32 years as operator of the Sharjah the Great Australian Bight, off the coast of south Australia.
concession area, BP agreed to transfer its operatorship of the concession to the government of Sharjah.
BP will retain its equity Eastern Indonesia ownership of 40% of the concession until expiry in November 2013.
On 26 November 2010, BP was awarded a 100% interest in the North During 2010, major milestones achieved in the Oman Khazzan Arafura oil and gas PSA in onshore Papua province.
The PSA was Makarem gas appraisal programme included the award of the contract signed in Jakarta by representatives of the government and BP.
The for early engineering, design and concept studies for the potential North Arafura PSA is located on the coast of the Arafura Sea, 480 long-term development of hydrocarbon resources in the block, and the kilometres south east of the BP-operated Tangguh plant, covering an commissioning of early well test facilities.
area of just over 5,000 square kilometres.
BP expects to commence seismic operations on the block in the near future.
Iraq Following a successful bid with PetroChina to run the Rumaila oil field in Midstream activities June 2009, the technical service contract TSC became effective on Oil and natural gas transportation 17 December 2009.
BP holds a 38% share and is the lead contractor.
The group has direct or indirect interests in certain crude oil and natural gas Rumaila is one of the worlds largest oilfields and was discovered by BP transportation systems.
The following narrative details the significant in 1953.
It currently produces approximately half of Iraqs oil exports and events that occurred during 2010 by country.
BP together with its partners is BPs onshore US crude oil and product pipelines and related actively refurbishing the wells and facilities.
transportation assets are included under Refining and Marketing On 1 July 2010, the Rumaila Operating Organization ROO was see page 55. established and began to take over operatorship of the Rumaila oilfield a from South Oil Company SOC, one of the state-owned oil companies An LNG train is a processing facility used to liquefy and purify LNG.
The ROO is made up of approximately 4,000 assignees from BP, PetroChina and SOC, and its creation is one of the first steps in the plan to grow Rumaila production to 2.85 million barrels per day over the next few years.
48 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review Liquefied natural gas Alaska Our LNG activities are focused on building competitively advantaged BP owns a 46.9% interest in the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System TAPS, with liquefaction projects, establishing diversified market positions to create the balance owned by four other companies.
BP also owns a 50% interest maximum value for our upstream natural gas resources and capturing in a joint venture company called Denali The Alaska Gas Pipeline Denali.
third-party LNG supply to complement our equity flows.
The remaining 50% of Denali is owned by a subsidiary of ConocoPhillips.
Assets and significant events in 2010 included: The proposed Denali project consists of a gas treatment plant GTP on a In Trinidad, BPs net share of the capacity of Atlantic LNG Trains Alaskas North Slope, transmission lines from the Prudhoe Bay and Point 1, 2, 3 and 4 is 6 million tonnes of LNG per year 292 billion cubic feet Thomson fields to the GTP, an Alaska mainline that would run from the equivalent regasified.
All of the LNG from Atlantic Train 1 and most of North Slope of Alaska to the Alaska-Yukon border, and a Canada mainline the LNG from Trains 2 and 3 is sold to third parties in the US and Spain that would transport gas from the Alaska-Yukon border to Alberta.
All of BPs LNG entitlement from Atlantic included are delivery points along the route to help meet local natural gas LNG Train 4 and some of its LNG entitlement from Trains 2 and 3 is demand in Alaska and Canada.
Denalis cost estimate for the GTP and marketed via BPs LNG marketing and trading business to a variety of pipelines is approximately $35 billion.
markets including the US, the Dominican Republic, Spain, the UK and Denali conducted concurrent 90-day open season bidding processes the Far East.
for both the US and Canadian portions of the Denali project during the We have a 10% equity shareholding in the Abu Dhabi Gas Liquefaction third quarter of 2010, the bidding for each concluded on 4 October Company, which in 2010 supplied 5.85 million tonnes 302,231mmscf 2010.
Conditional bids were received for significant capacity from of LNG.
At the end of 2010, Denali is evaluating the bids BP has a 13.6% share in the Angola LNG project, which is expected to received, and confidential negotiations with potential shippers continue receive approximately 1 billion cubic feet of associated gas per day from in an effort to reach binding agreements.
If agreements can be offshore producing blocks and to produce 5.2 million tonnes per year of concluded for sufficient capacity, Denali will seek certification from the LNG gross, as well as related gas liquids products.
Construction and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC of the US and the implementation of the project is proceeding and the plant is expected to National Energy Board NEB of Canada to move forward with project start up in 2012. construction.
Denali would manage the project, and would own and In Indonesia, BP is involved in two of the three LNG centres in the operate the pipeline when completed.
BP may consider other equity country.
BP participates in Indonesias LNG exports through its holdings participants, including pipeline companies, that can add value to the in the Sanga-Sanga PSA BP 38%.
Sanga-Sanga currently delivers project and help manage the risks involved.
around 13% of the total gas feed to Bontang, one of the worlds largest On 12 January 2010, an agreement to settle challenges to TAPS carrier LNG plants.
The Bontang plant produced more than 17 million tonnes of interstate tariff rate filings for the calendar year 2008 and the first half of LNG in 2010.
2009 was signed by the TAPS carriers and those challenging the tariffs Also in Indonesia, BP has its first operated LNG plant, Tangguh at the US FERC.
The agreement was approved by the US FERC on BP 37.16%, in Papua Barat.
The first phase of Tangguh, which is in its 1 April 2010.
Under the terms of the settlement, in the second quarter first full year of operations, comprises two offshore platforms, two of 2010 BP paid additional refunds to third-party shippers, amounting pipelines and an LNG plant with two production trains with a total capacity to $0.4 million, representing the $0.12 bbl difference between the of 7.6mtpa.
The Tangguh project has six long-term contracts in place to $3.45 bbl tariff rate on which the interim refunds paid in 2009 for this supply LNG to customers in China, South Korea, Mexico and Japan.
period were based, and the $3.33 bbl tariff rate in the approved In Australia, we are one of seven partners in the NWS venture.
venture operation covers offshore production platforms, trunklines, onshore gas and LNG processing plants and LNG carriers.
BPs net North Sea share of the capacity of NWS LNG Trains 1-5 is 2.7mtpa of LNG.
In the UK sector of the North Sea, BP operates the Forties Pipeline System BP has a 30% equity stake in the 7mtpa capacity Guangdong LNG FPS BP 100%, an integrated oil and NGLs transportation and processing regasification and pipeline project in south-east China, making it the system that handles production from more than 50 fields in the Central only foreign partner in Chinas LNG import business.
The terminal is North Sea.
The system has a capacity of more than 1 million barrels per also supplied under a long-term contract with Australias NWS project.
day, with average throughput in 2010 of 598mboe d. BP also operates and In both the Atlantic and Asian regions, BP is marketing LNG using BP has a 29.5% interest in the Central Area Transmission System CATS, a LNG shipping and contractual rights to access import terminal capacity 400-kilometre natural gas pipeline system in the central UK sector of the in the liquid markets of the US via Cove Point and Elba Island, the UK North Sea.
The pipeline has a transportation capacity of 1,700mmcf d to a via the Isle of Grain and Italy Rovigo, and is supplying Asian natural gas terminal at Teesside in north-east England.
CATS offers natural customers in Japan, South Korea and Taiwan.
gas transportation and processing services.
In addition, BP operates the Dimlington Easington gas processing terminal BP 100% on Humberside Gas marketing and trading activities and the Sullom Voe oil and gas terminal in Shetland.
Gas and power marketing and trading activity is undertaken primarily in the US, Canada and Europe to market both BP production and third-party Asia natural gas, support LNG activities and manage market price risk, as well as BP, as operator, holds a 30.1% interest in and manages the Baku-Tbilisito create incremental trading opportunities through the use of commodity Ceyhan BTC oil pipeline.
The 1,768-kilometre pipeline transports oil from derivative contracts.
Additionally, this activity generates fee income and the BP-operated ACG oilfield in the Caspian Sea to the eastern enhances margins from sources such as the management of price risk on Mediterranean port of Ceyhan.
BP is technical operator of, and holds a behalf of third-party customers.
These markets are large, liquid and volatile.
25.5% interest in, the 693-kilometre South Caucasus Pipeline SCP, which Market conditions have become more challenging over the past year due to takes gas from Azerbaijan through Georgia to the Turkish border.
In addition, the accessibility of shale gas and increased pipeline builds in North BP operates the Azerbaijan section of the Western Export Route Pipeline America.
This has resulted in limited basis differentials and faster between Azerbaijan and the Black Sea coast of Georgia as operator of production responses to price.
However, new markets are continuing to Azerbaijan International Operating Company.
develop with continental European markets opening up and LNG becoming On 21 July 2010, the BTC pipeline exceeded a daily average of more liquid.
The supply and trading function supported the group through a 1 million barrels per day for the first time, recording a daily export figure of period of uncertainty in the credit markets concerning BPs financial 1.057 million barrels.
A Drag Reducing Agent DRA was utilized to achieve position during the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 49 Business review In connection with its trading activities, the group uses a range of to price with reference to specific delivery locations where gas and power commodity derivative contracts and storage and transport contracts.
OTC forward contracts have evolved in both the These include commodity derivatives such as futures, swaps and options US and UK markets, enabling gas and power to be sold forward in a variety to manage price risk and forward contracts used to buy and sell gas and of locations and future periods.
These contracts are used both to sell power in the marketplace.
Using these contracts, in combination with production into the wholesale markets and as trading instruments to buy rights to access storage and transportation capacity, allows the group to and sell gas and power in future periods.
Storage and transportation access advantageous pricing differences between locations, time periods contracts allow the group to store and transport gas, and transmit power and arbitrage between markets.
Natural gas futures and options are traded between these locations.
The group has developed a risk governance through exchanges, while over-the-counter OTC options and swaps are framework to manage and oversee the financial risks associated with this used for both gas and power transactions through bilateral and or trading activity, which is described in Note 27 to the Financial statements centrally-cleared arrangements.
Futures and options are primarily used to on pages 185-190. trade the key index prices, such as Henry Hub, while swaps can be tailored The range of contracts that the group enters into is described in Certain definitions commodity trading contracts, on page 82.
Oil and gas disclosures The following tables provide additional data and disclosures in relation to our oil and gas operations.
b Realizations include transfers between businesses.
c Crude oil and natural gas liquids.
d It is common for equity-accounted entities agreements to include pricing clauses that require selling a significant portion of the entitled production to local governments or markets at discounted prices.
Average production cost per unit of production a $ per unit of production Europe North South Africa Asia Australasia Total group America America average Rest of Rest of North Rest of UK Europe US America Russia Asia The average production cost per a unit of production Subsidiaries 2010 12.79 9.76 8.10 15.78 2.48 7.52 4.59 2.03 6.77 2009 12.38 10.72 7.26 14.45 2.20 6.05 4.35 1.60 6.39 2008 12.19 8.74 9.02 15.35 2.34 6.72 5.24 1.74 7.24 Equity-accounted entities 2010 6.32 5.04 0.97 4.26 2009 6.12 4.63 0.94 3.95 2008 5.84 5.97 0.87 4.73 a Units of production are barrels for liquids and thousands of cubic feet for gas.
Amounts do not include ad valorem and severance taxes.
50 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review Licence expiry BP bases its proved reserves estimates on the requirement of reasonable The group holds no licences due to expire within the next three years that certainty with rigourous technical and commercial assessments based on would have a significant impact on BPs reserves or production.
BP only applies technologies that have been field tested and have been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain Resource progression results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated BP manages its hydrocarbon resources in three major categories: prospect or in an analogous formation.
BP applies high-resolution seismic data for inventory, contingent resources and proved reserves.
When a discovery is the identification of reservoir extent and fluid contacts only where there is made, volumes usually transfer from the prospect inventory to the an overwhelming track record of success in its local application.
In certain contingent resources category.
The contingent resources move through deepwater fields BP has booked proved reserves before production flow various sub-categories as their technical and commercial maturity increases tests are conducted, in part because of the significant safety, cost and through appraisal activity.
environmental implications of conducting these tests.
The industry has At the point of final investment decision, most proved reserves will made substantial technological improvements in understanding, measuring be categorized as proved undeveloped PUD.
Volumes will subsequently and delineating reservoir properties without the need for flow tests.
To be recategorized from PUD to proved developed PD as a consequence of determine reasonable certainty of commercial recovery, BP employs a development activity.
When part of a wells proved reserves depends on a general method of reserves assessment that relies on the integration of later phase of activity, only that portion of proved reserves associated with three types of data: 1 well data used to assess the local characteristics existing, available facilities and infrastructure moves to PD.
The first PD and conditions of reservoirs and fluids: 2 field scale seismic data to allow bookings will typically occur at the point of first oil or gas production.
Major the interpolation and extrapolation of these characteristics outside the development projects typically take one to four years from the time of initial immediate area of the local well control: and 3 data from relevant booking of proved reserves to the start of production.
Changes to proved analogous fields.
Well data includes appraisal wells or sidetrack holes, full reserves bookings may be made due to analysis of new or existing data logging suites, core data and fluid samples.
BP considers the integration of concerning production, reservoir performance, commercial factors, this data in certain cases to be superior to a flow test in providing acquisition and disposal activity and additional reservoir development understanding of overall reservoir performance.
The collection of data from activity.
logs, cores, wireline formation testers, pressures and fluid samples Contingent resources in a field will only be recategorized as proved calibrated to each other and to the seismic data can allow reservoir reserves when all the criteria for attribution of proved status have been met properties to be determined over a greater volume than the localized and the proved reserves are included in the business plan and scheduled volume of investigation associated with a short-term flow test.
There is a for development, typically within five years.
The group will only book proved strong track record of proved reserves recorded using these methods, reserves where development is scheduled to commence after five years, validated by actual production levels.
if these proved reserves satisfy the SECs criteria for attribution of proved status.
There are volumes of proved undeveloped reserves scheduled to Governance commence after five years in Trinidad and Canada that are part of BPs centrally controlled process for proved reserves estimation approval ongoing development activities for which BP has a historical track record forms part of a holistic and integrated system of internal control.
It consists of completing comparable projects.
In all cases, the volumes are being of the following elements: progressed as part of an adopted development plan, which calls for Accountabilities of certain officers of the group to ensure that there is drilling of wells over an extended period of time given the magnitude of review and approval of proved reserves bookings independent of the the development.
operating business and that there are effective controls in the approval Total development expenditure in Exploration and Production, process and verification that the proved reserves estimates and the excluding midstream activities, was $12,044 million in 2010 $9,675 million related financial impacts are reported in a timely manner.
for subsidiaries and $2,369 million for equity-accounted entities.
The major Capital allocation processes, whereby delegated authority is exercised areas converted in 2010 were Azerbaijan, Indonesia, Russia, Trinidad and to commit to capital projects that are consistent with the delivery of the the US.
A formal review process exists to ensure that In 2010, we converted 1,481mmboe of proved undeveloped both technical and commercial criteria are met prior to the commitment reserves to proved developed reserves through ongoing investment in our of capital to projects.
The table below describes the changes to Internal Audit, whose role is to consider whether the Groups system of our proved undeveloped reserves position through the year.
internal control is adequately designed and operating effectively to respond appropriately to the risks that are significant to BP.
volumes in mmboe Approval hierarchy, whereby proved reserves changes above certain Proved undeveloped reserves at 1 January 2010 7,952 threshold volumes require central authorization and periodic reviews.
Revisions of previous estimates 247 The frequency of review is determined according to field size and Improved recovery 1,062 ensures that more than 80% of the BP proved reserves base Discoveries and extensions 689 undergoes central review every two years, and more than 90% is Purchases 74 reviewed centrally every four years.
Sales 150 BPs vice president of segment reserves is the petroleum engineer Total in year proved undeveloped reserves changes 9,380 primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of the reserves Progressed to proved developed reserves 1,481 estimate.
He has over 25 years of diversified industry experience with the Proved undeveloped reserves at 31 December 2010 7,899 past eight spent managing the governance and compliance of BPs reserves estimation.
He is a past member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers Oil and Gas Reserves Committee, a sitting member of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists Committee on Resource Evaluation and vice-chair of the bureau of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe Expert Group on Resource Classification.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 51 Business review For the executive directors and senior management, no specific portion of BPs estimated net proved reserves as at 31 December 2010 compensation bonuses is directly related to proved reserves targets.
Seventy-five per cent of our total proved reserves of subsidiaries at Additions to proved reserves is one of several indicators by which the 31 December 2010 were held through unincorporated joint ventures performance of the Exploration and Production segment is assessed by the 76% in 2009, and 31% of the proved reserves were held through remuneration committee for the purposes of determining compensation such unincorporated joint ventures where we were not the operator bonuses for the executive directors.
Other indicators include a number of 27% in 2009. financial and operational measures.
In addition, we are conducting a a b c fundamental review of how the group incentivizes business performance, Estimated net proved reserves of liquids at 31 December 2010 including reward strategy, with the aim of encouraging excellence in safety, million barrels compliance and operational risk management.
Developed Undeveloped Total BPs variable pay programme for the other senior managers in the UK 364 431 795 Exploration and Production segment is based on individual performance Rest of Europe 77 221 298 d contracts.
Individual performance contracts are based on agreed items US 1,729 1,190 2,919 from the business performance plan, one of which, if chosen, could relate Rest of North America e to proved reserves.
South America 44 58 102 Africa 371 374 745 Compliance Rest of Asia 269 325 594 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs do not provide specific Australasia 48 58 106 guidance on reserves disclosures.
BP estimates proved reserves in Subsidiaries 2,902 2,657 5,559 accordance with SEC Rule 4-10 a of Regulation S-X and relevant f Equity-accounted entities 3,166 1,984 5,150 Compliance and Disclosure Interpretations C&DI and Staff Accounting Total 6,068 4,641 10,709 Bulletins as issued by the SEC staff.
By their nature, there is always some risk involved in the a b ultimate development and production of proved reserves, including, but Estimated net proved reserves of natural gas at 31 December 2010 not limited to, final regulatory approval, the installation of new or additional billion cubic feet Developed Undeveloped Total infrastructure, as well as changes in oil and gas prices, changes in operating and development costs and the continued availability of UK 1,416 829 2,245 additional development capital.
All the groups proved reserves held in Rest of Europe 40 430 470 subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities are estimated by the groups US 9,495 4,248 13,743 petroleum engineers.
Rest of North America 58 58 g Our proved reserves are associated with both concessions tax and South America 3,575 6,575 10,150 royalty arrangements and agreements where the group is exposed to the Africa 1,329 2,351 3,680 upstream risks and rewards of ownership, but where our entitlement to the Rest of Asia 1,290 268 1,558 hydrocarbons is calculated using a more complex formula, such as PSAs.
In Australasia 3,563 2,342 5,905 a concession, the consortium of which we are a part is entitled to the Subsidiaries 20,766 17,043 37,809 proved reserves that can be produced over the licence period, which may h Equity-accounted entities 3,046 1,845 4,891 be the life of the field.
In a PSA, we are entitled to recover volumes that Total 23,812 18,888 42,700 equate to costs incurred to develop and produce the proved reserves and an agreed share of the remaining volumes or the economic equivalent.
As part of our entitlement is driven by the monetary amount of costs to be Net proved reserves on an oil equivalent basis recovered, price fluctuations will have an impact on both production million barrels of oil equivalent volumes and reserves.
Developed Undeveloped Total We disclose our share of proved reserves held in equity-accounted Subsidiaries 6,481 5,596 12,077 entities jointly controlled entities and associates, although we do not Equity-accounted entities 3,691 2,303 5,994 control these entities or the assets held by such entities.
Total 10,172 7,899 18,071 a P roved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and sales arrangements independently, and include minority interests in consolidated operations.
We disclose our share of reserves held in jointly controlled entities and associates that are accounted for by the equity method although we do not control these entities or the assets held by such entities.
c Liquids include crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and bitumen.
d Proved reserves in the Prudhoe Bay field in Alaska include an estimated 78 million barrels on which a net profits royalty will be payable over the life of the field under the terms of the BP Prudhoe Bay Royalty Trust.
e Includes 22 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
f Includes 254 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 7.03% minority interest in TNK-BP.
g Includes 2,921 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
h Includes 137 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 5.89% minority interest in TNK-BP.
52 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review BPs net production by major field for 2010, 2009 and 2008.
Liquids thousand barrels per day a Subsidiaries BP net share of production Field or area 2010 2009 2008 b c UK ETAP 28 34 27 d Foinaven 24 29 26 Other 85 105 120 Total UK 137 168 173 b Norway Various 40 40 43 Total Rest of Europe 40 40 43 Total Europe 177 208 216 d Alaska Prudhoe Bay 67 69 72 Kuparuk 42 45 48 d Milne Point 23 24 27 Other 34 43 50 Total Alaska 166 181 197 b Lower 48 onshore Various 90 97 97 b d Gulf of Mexico deepwater Thunder Horse 120 133 24 d Atlantis 49 54 42 d Mad Dog 30 35 31 Mars 23 29 28 d Na Kika 25 27 29 d Horn Mountain 14 25 18 d King 21 22 23 Other 56 62 49 Total Gulf of Mexico deepwater 338 387 244 Total US 594 665 538 b d Canada Various 7 8 9 Total Rest of North America 7 8 9 Total North America 601 673 547 d Colombia Various 18 23 24 d Trinidad & Tobago Various 36 38 38 b Venezuela Various 4 Total South America 54 61 66 d Angola Greater Plutonio 73 70 69 Kizomba C Dev 31 43 30 Dalia 20 32 34 Girassol FPSO 18 22 22 Other 28 44 46 Total Angola 170 211 201 b Egypt Gupco 47 55 41 Other 12 16 16 Total Egypt 59 71 57 Algeria Various 17 22 19 Total Africa 246 304 277 b d Azerbaijan  94 94 97 Other 9 7 8 Total Azerbaijan 103 101 105 b Western Indonesia Various 2 5 7 Other Various 14 17 16 b Total Rest of Asia 119 123 128 Total Asia 119 123 128 Australia Various 30 31 29 Other Various 2 Total Australasia 32 31 29 e Total subsidiaries 1,229 1,400 1,263 Equity-accounted entities BP share b Russia TNK-BP Various 856 840 826 Total Russia 856 840 826 f Abu Dhabi Various 190 182 210 Other Various 1 12 10 b Total Rest of Asia 191 194 220 Total Asia 1,047 1,034 1,046 Argentina Various 75 75 70 b Venezuela Various 23 25 19 b Bolivia Various 1 3 Total South America 98 101 92 Total equity-accounted entities 1,145 1,135 1,138 Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities 2,374 2,535 2,401 a Production excludes royalties due to others whether payable in cash or in kind where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and sales arrangements independently.
b In 2010, BP divested its Permian Basin assets in Texas and south-east New Mexico, the East Badr El-Din and Western Desert concession in Egypt, its Canada gas assets and reduced its interest in the Tubular Bells and King fields in the Gulf of Mexico.
It also acquired an increased holding in the  development in Azerbaijan and the Valhall and Hod fields in the Norwegian North Sea.
Four other producing fields in the Gulf of Mexico that were acquired during 2010 were subsequently disposed of in early 2011.
In 2009, BP assumed operatorship of the Mirpurkhas and Khipro blocks in Pakistan, swapped a number of assets with BG Group plc in the UK sector of the North Sea, divested some minor interests in the US Lower 48, divested its holdings in Indonesias Offshore Northwest Java to Pertamina, divested its interests in LukArco to Lukoil and the Bolivian government nationalized, with compensation payable, Pan American Energys shares of Chaco.
In 2008, BP concluded the migration of the Cerro Negro operations to an incorporated joint venture with PDVSA while retaining its equity position, and TNK-BP disposed of some non-core interests.
c Volumes relate to six BP-operated fields within ETAP.
BP has no interests in the remaining three ETAP fields, which are operated by Shell.
e Includes 29 net mboe d of NGLs from processing plants in which BP has an interest 2009 26mboe d and 2008 19mboe d. f The BP group holds interests, through associates, in onshore and offshore concessions in Abu Dhabi, expiring in 2014 and 2018 respectively.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 53 Business review Natural gas million cubic feet per day a Subsidiaries BP net share of production Field or area 2010 2009 2008 b c UK Bruce Rhum 100 110 165 Brae East 46 62 71 Other 326 446 523 Total UK 472 618 759 b Norway Various 15 16 23 Total Rest of Europe 15 16 23 Total Europe 487 634 782 b c Lower 48 onshore San Juan 629 659 682 c Jonah 185 227 221 Arkoma Central 164 194 240 Arkoma West 128 65 Arkoma East 112 67 c Wamsutter 126 146 136 Other 531 597 607 Total Lower 48 onshore Total 1,875 1,955 1,886 b c Gulf of Mexico deepwater Thunder Horse 80 83 11 Other 183 220 219 Total Gulf of Mexico deepwater 263 303 230 Alaska Various 46 58 41 Total US 2,184 2,316 2,157 b Canada Various 202 263 245 Total Rest of North America 202 263 245 Total North America 2,386 2,579 2,402 c Trinidad & Tobago Mango 544 664 471 c Cashima NEQB 679 571 375 c Kapok 541 540 619 c Cannonball 156 225 336 c Amherstia 252 197 288 c Other 301 233 357 Total Trinidad 2,473 2,430 2,446 Colombia Various 71 62 84 b Venezuela Various 2 Total South America 2,544 2,492 2,532 b Egypt Temsah 90 118 109 c Hapy 73 94 94 c Taurt 75 73 24 Other 192 177 145 Total Egypt 430 462 372 Algeria Total 126 159 112 Total Africa 556 621 484 b c Pakistan Various 150 173 162 b c Azerbaijan Various 132 126 143 b Western Indonesia Sanga-Sanga 69 71 69 Other 1 35 97 Total Western Indonesia 70 106 166 China Yacheng 95 83 91 c Vietnam Various 77 63 61 c Sharjah Various 50 59 73 Total Rest of Asia 574 610 696 Total Asia 574 610 696 Australia Perseus Athena 165 142 229 Goodwyn 118 139 74 Angel 133 120 6 Other 46 39 71 Total Australia 462 440 380 c Eastern Indonesia Tangguh 323 74 1 Total Australasia 785 514 381 d Total subsidiaries 7,332 7,450 7,277 Equity-accounted entities BP share b Russia TNK-BP Various 640 601 564 Total Russia 640 601 564 Western Indonesia Various 30 31 31 b Kazakhstan Various 11 8 Total Rest of Asia 30 42 39 Total Asia 670 643 603 Argentina Various 379 378 385 b Bolivia Various 11 11 63 b Venezuela Various 9 3 6 Total South America 399 392 454 d Total equity-accounted entities 1,069 1,035 1,057 Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities 8,401 8,485 8,334 a P roduction excludes royalties due to others whether payable in cash or in kind where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and sales arrangements independently.
d Natural gas production volumes exclude gas consumed in operations within the lease boundaries of the producing field, but the related reserves are included in the groups reserves.
54 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
