Business review focus on managing risk, delivering common standards and processes and Group overview building personnel and technological capability for the future.
The Exploration division is accountable for renewing our resource base through access, exploration and appraisal activities.
The Developments division is accountable for the safe and compliant execution of wells drilling and completions and major projects.
The Production division is accountable for safe and compliant operations, including upstream production assets, midstream transportation and processing activities, and the development of our resource base.
Divisional activities are integrated on a regional basis Our organization by a regional president reporting to the Production division.
Refining and Marketings activities include the supply and trading, BP is one of the worlds leading international oil refining, manufacturing, marketing and transportation of crude oil, a and gas companies.
We operate or market our petroleum and petrochemicals products and related services.
The segment comprises a number of strategic performance units SPUs, which are products in more than 80 countries, providing our organized along either geographic or activity-related lines.
Each SPU is of customers with fuel for transportation, energy for a scale that allows for a close focus on performance delivery, starting with safety, and includes the appropriate management of operating and heat and light, retail services and petrochemicals financial parameters.
Our group functions and regions support the work of our segments and businesses.
The key objectives of the functions are to establish and As a global group, our interests and activities are held or operated through monitor fit-for-purpose functional standards across the group: to act as subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities or associates established in and centres of deep functional expertise: to access significant leverage with subject to the laws and regulations of many different jurisdictions.
These third-party suppliers: and to establish and maintain capabilities among the interests and activities covered two business segments in 2010: functional staff employed within our operating businesses.
In addition, the Exploration and Production and Refining and Marketing.
BPs activities in head of each region provides the required cross-segment integration and low-carbon energy are managed through our Alternative Energy business, co-ordination of group activities in a particular geographic area and which is reported within Other businesses and corporate.
represents BP to external parties.
Exploration and Productions activities include oil and natural gas In June 2010, following the Gulf of Mexico incident, we established exploration, field development and production: midstream transportation, the Gulf Coast Restoration Organization GCRO and subsequently storage and processing: and the marketing and trading of natural gas, equipped it with dedicated resources and capabilities to manage all aspects including liquefied natural gas LNG, together with power and natural gas of our response to the accident.
This organization reports directly to the liquids NGLs.
During the fourth quarter of 2010, as part of our wider group chief executive and is overseen by a specific new board committee.
response to the Gulf of Mexico incident, we decided to reorganize our Among the changes we have made following the Gulf of Mexico Exploration and Production segment to create three global functional incident, we have redefined and strengthened the scope and accountabilities divisions: Exploration, Developments, and Production, integrated of the group function for safety and operations, creating an enhanced, through a Strategy and Integration organization.
This is designed to independent Safety and Operational Risk S&OR function, to oversee and fundamentally change the way the segment operates, with a particular audit the companys operations around the world.
The function has its own a On the basis of market capitalization, proved reserves and production.
expert staff embedded in BPs operating units, including exploration projects Exploration and Production BPs major areas of operation in 2010 BP subsidiary Equity-accounted entity Location where all, or the majority of, our operations were disposed during 2010 or held for sale at 31 December 2010 14 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review Refining and Marketing a BPs global presence in 2010 BP refinery wholly or partly owned Petrochemicals site s wholly or partly owned Proposed for disposal by the end of 2012 a The green shaded areas indicate the approximate coverage of BPs integrated fuels value chains.
and refineries, with defined intervention rights with respect to BPs technical Where we operate and operational activities.
The function reports directly to the group chief BPs worldwide headquarters is in London.
The UK is a centre for trading, executive and aims to provide assurance that BPs operations are carried out legal, finance and other business functions as well as three of BPs major to common standards, and audits conformance to those standards.
global research and technology groups.
The significant subsidiaries of the group at 31 December 2010 and We have well-established operations in Europe, the US, Canada, the group percentage of ordinary share capital to the nearest whole Russia, South America, Australasia, Asia and parts of Africa.
Currently, number are set out in Financial statements Note 46 on pages 220-221. around 68% of the groups fixed assets are invested in Organization for See Financial statements Notes 25 and 26 on pages 183 and 184 Economic Co-operation and Development OECD countries, with around respectively for information on significant jointly controlled entities and 42% of our fixed assets located in the US and around 20% in Europe.
Our Exploration and Production segment included upstream and On 14 January 2011, BP and Rosneft Oil Company Rosneft midstream activities in 29 countries in 2010 including Angola, Azerbaijan, announced that they had agreed a strategic global alliance.
BP and Rosneft Canada, Egypt, Norway, Russia, Trinidad & Tobago Trinidad, the UK, the US have agreed to seek to form a joint venture to explore and, if successful, and other locations within Asia, Australasia, South America, North Africa develop three licence blocks on the Russian Arctic continental shelf.
BP and and the Middle East.
Our Exploration and Production segment also includes Rosneft have entered into a related share swap agreement whereby, upon gas marketing and trading activities, primarily in Canada, Europe and the completion, BP will receive approximately 9.5% of Rosnefts shares in US.
In Russia, we have an important associate through our 50% exchange for BP issuing new ordinary shares to Rosneft with an aggregate shareholding in TNK-BP, a major oil company with exploration assets, value of approximately $7.8 billion as at close of trading in London on refineries and other downstream infrastructure.
14 January 2011, resulting in Rosneft holding 5% of BPs ordinary voting In Refining and Marketing, we market our products in more than 70 shares.
See Legal proceedings on page 133 for information on an interim countries, with a particularly strong presence in Europe and North America, injunction, granted by the English High Court on 1 February 2011 and also manufacture and market our products across Australasia, in China restraining BP from taking any further steps in relation to the Rosneft and other parts of Asia, Africa and Central and South America.
In the US, transactions pending the outcome of arbitration proceedings.
we own or have a share in five refineries and market fuel primarily under On 21 February 2011, Reliance Industries Limited and BP announced the ARCO and BP brands.
See Refining and Marketing Our strategy on that they intend to form an upstream joint venture in which BP will take a page 55 for further information on forthcoming portfolio changes in the US.
30% stake in 23 oil and gas production-sharing contracts that Reliance In Europe, we own or have a share in seven refineries and we market operates in India, including the producing KG D6 block, and form a 50:50 extensively across the region, primarily under the Aral and BP fuel brands.
joint venture for the sourcing and marketing of gas in India.
BP will pay Our long-established supply and trading activity is responsible for delivering Reliance Industries Limited an aggregate consideration of $7.2 billion, value across the crude and oil products supply chain.
Our petrochemicals and completion adjustments, for the interests to be acquired in the 23 business maintains a manufacturing position globally, with an emphasis on production-sharing contracts.
Future performance payments of up to $1.8 growth in Asia.
Our lubricants business blends and markets lubricants billion could be paid based on exploration success that results in globally, primarily under the Castrol brand, and is a growing business development of commercial discoveries.
Reliance will continue to be the through market growth and the development of new products.
We operator under the production-sharing contracts.
Completion of the continue to seek opportunities to broaden our activities in growth markets transactions is subject to Indian regulatory approvals and other customary such as China and India.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 15
