Additional information for shareholders All such carried costs are subject to regular technical, commercial and Critical accounting policies management review on at least an annual basis to confirm the continued intent to develop, or otherwise extract value from, the discovery.
Where The significant accounting policies of the group are summarized in Financial this is no longer the case, the costs are immediately expensed.
Once a project is sanctioned for development, the carrying values Inherent in the application of many of the accounting policies used of exploration licence and leasehold property acquisition costs and in preparing the financial statements is the need for BP management to costs associated with exploration wells and exploratory-type stratigraphic make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of test wells, are transferred to production assets within property, plant assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the and equipment.
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
The capitalized exploration and development costs for proved oil Actual outcomes could differ from the estimates and assumptions used.
and natural gas properties which include the costs of drilling unsuccessful The following summary provides more information about the critical appraisal and development wells are amortized on the basis of oilaccounting policies that could have a significant impact on the results of equivalent barrels that are produced in a period as a percentage of the the group and should be read in conjunction with the Notes on financial estimated proved reserves.
Costs of common facilities subject to statements.
depreciation are expenditures incurred to date, together with future capital The accounting policies and areas that require the most significant expenditure expected to be incurred in relation to these common facilities judgements and estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated and excluding future drilling costs.
financial statements are in relation to oil and natural gas accounting, The estimated proved reserves used in these unit-of-production including the estimation of reserves, the recoverability of asset carrying calculations vary with the nature of the capitalized expenditure.
The values, taxation, derivative financial instruments, provisions and reserves used in the calculation of the unit-of-production amortization are contingencies, and in particular, provisions and contingencies related to the as follows: Gulf of Mexico oil spill, and pensions and other post-retirement benefits.
Cost of producing wells proved developed reserves.
Licence and property acquisition, common facilities and future Oil and natural gas accounting decommissioning costs total proved reserves.
The group follows the principles of the successful efforts method of accounting for its oil and natural gas exploration and production activities.
The impact of changes in estimated proved reserves is dealt with The acquisition of geological and geophysical seismic information, prospectively by amortizing the remaining carrying value of the asset over prior to the discovery of proved reserves, is expensed as incurred.
If proved reserves estimates are revised Exploration licence and leasehold property acquisition costs are downwards, earnings could be affected by higher depreciation expense or capitalized within intangible assets and are reviewed at each reporting date an immediate write-down of the propertys carrying value see discussion to confirm that there is no indication that the carrying amount exceeds the of recoverability of asset carrying values below.
This review includes confirming that exploration drilling On 31 December 2008, the SEC published a revision of is still under way or firmly planned or that it has been determined, or work Rule 4-10 a of Regulation S-X for the estimation of reserves.
In 2009, the is under way to determine, that the discovery is economically viable based application of the technical aspects of these revised rules resulted in an on a range of technical and commercial considerations and sufficient immaterial increase of less than 1% to BPs total proved reserves.
The progress is being made on establishing development plans and timing.
If estimation of oil and natural gas reserves and BPs process to manage no future activity is planned, the remaining balance of the licence and reserves bookings is described in Exploration and Production Oil and gas property acquisition costs is written off.
Lower value licences are disclosures on page 50, which is unaudited.
As discussed below, oil and pooled and amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated period natural gas reserves have a direct impact on the assessment of the of exploration.
recoverability of asset carrying values reported in the financial statements.
For exploration wells and exploratory-type stratigraphic test wells, The 2010 movements in proved reserves are reflected in the tables costs directly associated with the drilling of wells are initially capitalized showing movements in oil and gas reserves by region in Financial within intangible assets, pending determination of whether potentially statements Supplementary information on oil and natural gas unaudited economic oil and gas reserves have been discovered by the drilling effort.
These costs include employee remuneration, materials and fuel used, rig costs, delay rentals and payments made to contractors.
The determination Recoverability of asset carrying values is usually made within one year after well completion, but can take longer, BP assesses its fixed assets, including goodwill, for possible impairment if depending on the complexity of the geological structure.
If the well did not there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that carrying encounter potentially economic oil and gas quantities, the well costs are values of the assets may not be recoverable and, as a result, charges for expensed as a dry hole and are reported in exploration expense.
impairment are recognized in the groups results from time to time.
Such Exploration wells that discover potentially economic quantities of oil and indicators include changes in the groups business plans, changes in natural gas and are in areas where major capital expenditure e. g. offshore commodity prices leading to sustained unprofitable performance, an platform or a pipeline would be required before production could begin, increase in the discount rate, low plant utilization, evidence of physical and where the economic viability of that major capital expenditure depends damage and, for oil and natural gas properties, significant downward on the successful completion of further exploration work in the area, revisions of estimated volumes or increases in estimated future remain capitalized on the balance sheet as long as additional exploration development expenditure.
If there are low oil prices, natural gas prices, appraisal work is under way or firmly planned.
refining margins or marketing margins during an extended period, the It is not unusual to have exploration wells and exploratory-type group may need to recognize significant impairment charges.
stratigraphic test wells remaining suspended on the balance sheet for The assessment for impairment entails comparing the carrying several years while additional appraisal drilling and seismic work on the value of the asset or cash-generating unit with its recoverable amount, potential oil and natural gas field is performed or while the optimum that is, the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in development plans and timing are established.
use is usually determined on the basis of discounted estimated future net cash flows.
Determination as to whether and how much an asset is impaired involves management estimates on highly uncertain matters such as future commodity prices, the effects of inflation on operating expenses, discount rates, production profiles and the outlook for global or regional market supply-and-demand conditions for crude oil, natural gas and refined products.
124 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Additional information for shareholders Additional information for shareholders For oil and natural gas properties, the expected future cash flows are Derivative financial instruments estimated using managements best estimate of future oil and natural gas The group uses derivative financial instruments to manage certain prices and reserves volumes.
Prices for oil and natural gas used for future exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates cash flow calculations are based on market prices for the first five years and commodity prices as well as for trading purposes.
In addition, and the groups long-term planning assumptions thereafter.
As at derivatives embedded within other financial instruments or other host 31 December 2010, the groups long-term planning assumptions were contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and $75 per barrel for Brent and $6.50 mmBtu for Henry Hub 2009 $75 per characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract.
All such barrel and $7.50 mmBtu.
These long-term planning assumptions are derivatives are initially recognized at fair value on the date on which a subject to periodic review and modification.
The estimated future level of derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair production is based on assumptions about future commodity prices, value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives production and development costs, field decline rates, current fiscal that are not designated as effective hedging instruments are recognized in regimes and other factors.
The future cash flows are adjusted for risks specific to the In some cases the fair values of derivatives are estimated using cash-generating unit and are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate.
The models and other valuation methods due to the absence of quoted prices discount rate is derived from the groups post-tax weighted average cost of or other observable, market-corroborated data.
In particular, this applies to capital and is adjusted where applicable to take into account any specific the majority of the groups natural gas embedded derivatives.
These are risks relating to the country where the cash-generating unit is located, primarily long-term UK gas contracts that use pricing formulae not related although other rates may be used if appropriate to the specific to gas prices, for example, oil product and power prices.
In 2010 the rates ranged from 11% to 14% nominal are valued using models with inputs that include price curves for each of 2009 9% to 13% nominal.
The rate applied in each country is re-assessed the different products that are built up from active market pricing data and each year.
extrapolated to the expiry of the contracts using the maximum available Irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, BP is external pricing information.
Additionally, where limited data exists for required to test annually for impairment of goodwill acquired in a business certain products, prices are interpolated using historic and long-term pricing combination.
The group carries goodwill of approximately $8.6 billion on its relationships.
Price volatility is also an input for the models.
Changes in the balance sheet 2009 $8.6 billion, principally relating to the Atlantic Richfield key assumptions could have a material impact on the gains and losses on and Burmah Castrol acquisitions.
In testing goodwill for impairment, the embedded derivatives recognized in the income statement.
For more group uses a similar approach to that described above for asset information see Financial statements Note 34 on page 192.
If there are low oil prices or natural gas prices or refining of the sensitivity of the fair value of the embedded derivatives to changes margins or marketing margins for an extended period, the group may need in the key assumptions is provided in Financial statements Note 27 to recognize significant goodwill impairment charges.
In 2009, an on page 185. impairment loss of $1.6 billion was recognized to write off all of the goodwill allocated to the US West Coast fuels value chain FVC.
The Provisions and contingencies prevailing weak refining environment, together with a review of future The group holds provisions for the future decommissioning of oil and margin expectations in the FVC, led to a reduction in the expected future natural gas production facilities and pipelines at the end of their economic cash flows.
The largest decommissioning obligations facing BP relate to the plugging and abandonment of wells and the removal and disposal of oil and Taxation natural gas platforms and pipelines around the world.
The estimated The computation of the groups income tax expense involves the discounted costs of performing this work are recognized as we drill the interpretation of applicable tax laws and regulations in many jurisdictions wells and install the facilities, reflecting our legal obligations at that time.
The resolution of tax positions taken by the group, A corresponding asset of an amount equivalent to the provision is also through negotiations with relevant tax authorities or through litigation, can created within property, plant and equipment.
This asset is depreciated take several years to complete and in some cases it is difficult to predict over the expected life of the production facility or pipeline.
Most of these the ultimate outcome.
decommissioning events are many years in the future and the precise In addition, the group has carry-forward tax losses and tax credits in requirements that will have to be met when the removal event actually certain taxing jurisdictions that are available to offset against future taxable occurs are uncertain.
Decommissioning technologies and costs are profit.
However, deferred tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it constantly changing, as well as political, environmental, safety and public is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the unused tax expectations.
Consequently, the timing and amounts of future cash flows losses or tax credits can be utilized.
Management judgement is exercised are subject to significant uncertainty.
Changes in the expected future costs in assessing whether this is the case.
are reflected in both the provision and the asset.
To the extent that actual outcomes differ from managements Decommissioning provisions associated with downstream and estimates, income tax charges or credits may arise in future periods.
For petrochemicals facilities are generally not recognized, as such potential more information see Financial statements Note 19 on page 177 and obligations cannot be measured, given their indeterminate settlement Note 44 on page 218. dates.
The group performs periodic reviews of its downstream and petrochemicals long-lived assets for any changes in facts and circumstances that might require the recognition of a decommissioning provision.
The timing and amount of future expenditures are reviewed annually, together with the interest rate used in discounting the cash flows.
The interest rate used to determine the balance sheet obligation at the end of 2010 was 1.5% 2009 1.75%.
The interest rate represents the real rate i. e. excluding the impacts of inflation on long-dated government bonds.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 125 Additional information for shareholders Other provisions and liabilities are recognized in the period when it Expenditure to be met from the $20-billion trust fund becomes probable that there will be a future outflow of funds resulting In June 2010 BP agreed with the US government that it would establish a from past operations or events and the amount of cash outflow can be trust fund of $20 billion to be available to satisfy legitimate individual and reliably estimated.
The timing of recognition and quantification of the business claims administered by the Gulf Coast Claims Facility GCCF, liability require the application of judgement to existing facts and state and local government claims resolved by BP, final judgments and circumstances, which can be subject to change.
Since the actual cash settlements, state and local response costs, and natural resource damages outflows can take place many years in the future, the carrying amounts of and related costs.
Fines, penalties and claims administration costs are not provisions and liabilities are reviewed regularly and adjusted to take account covered by the trust fund.
BPs obligation to make contributions to the trust of changing facts and circumstances.
fund was recognized in full and is included within other payables on the A change in estimate of a recognized provision or liability would balance sheet after taking account of the time value of money.
The result in a charge or credit to net income in the period in which the change establishment of the trust fund does not represent a cap or floor on BPs occurs with the exception of decommissioning costs as described above.
liabilities and BP does not admit to a liability of this amount.
Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up An asset has been recognized representing BPs right to receive is probable and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
reimbursement from the trust fund.
This is the portion of the estimated Generally, this coincides with commitment to a formal plan of action or, if future expenditure provided for that will be settled by payments from the earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
The provision for trust fund.
BP will not actually receive any reimbursements from the trust environmental liabilities is estimated based on current legal and fund, but rather payments will be made directly to claimants from the constructive requirements, technology, price levels and expected plans trust fund.
Actual costs and cash outflows can differ from BP has provided for its best estimate of items that will be paid estimates because of changes in laws and regulations, public through the $20-billion trust fund.
It is not possible, at this time, to measure expectations, prices, discovery and analysis of site conditions and reliably any other items that will be paid from the trust fund, namely any changes in clean-up technology.
obligation in relation to Natural Resource Damages claims, and claims The provision for environmental liabilities is reviewed at least asserted in civil litigation, nor is it practicable to estimate their magnitude or annually.
The interest rate used to determine the balance sheet obligation possible timing of payment.
Although these items, which will be paid at 31 December 2010 was 1.5% 2009 1.75%.
through the trust fund, have not been provided for at this time, BPs full As further described in Financial statements Note 44 on obligation under the $20-billion trust fund has been expensed in the income page 218, the group is subject to claims and actions.
The facts and statement, taking account of the time value of money.
circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated regularly in determining whether it is probable that there will be a future outflow of Other expenditure not covered by the $20-billion trust fund funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a specific For those items not covered by the trust fund it is not possible to measure litigation should be adjusted.
Accordingly, significant management reliably any obligation in relation to other litigation or potential fines and judgement relating to contingent liabilities is required, since the outcome of penalties, except for those relating to the Clean Water Act.
There are a litigation is difficult to predict.
number of federal and state environmental and other provisions of law, other than the Clean Water Act, under which one or more governmental Gulf of Mexico oil spill agencies could seek civil fines and penalties from BP.
Given the large As a consequence of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, as described on number of claims that may be asserted, it is not possible at this time to pages 34-39, BP has incurred costs during the year and has recognized determine whether and to what extent any such claims would be liabilities for future costs.
Liabilities of uncertain timing or amount and successful or what penalties or fines would be assessed.
contingent liabilities have been accounted for and or disclosed in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent Contingent assets relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill assets.
BPs rights and obligations in relation to the $20-billion trust fund BP is the operator of the Macondo well and holds a 65% working interest, which was established during the year have been accounted for in with the remaining 35% interest held by two co-owners, Anadarko accordance with IFRIC 5 Rights to interests arising from decommissioning, Petroleum Corporation APC and MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC MOEX.
restoration and environmental rehabilitation funds.
Under the Operating Agreement, MOEX and APC are responsible for The total amounts that will ultimately be paid by BP in relation to all reimbursing BP for their proportionate shares of the costs of all operations obligations relating to the incident are subject to significant uncertainty and and activities conducted under the Operating Agreement.
In addition, the the ultimate exposure and cost to BP will be dependent on many factors.
parties are responsible for their proportionate shares of all liabilities Furthermore, the amount of claims that become payable by BP, the amount resulting from operations or activities conducted under the Operating of fines ultimately levied on BP including any determination of BPs Agreement, except where liability results from a partys gross negligence negligence, the outcome of litigation, and any costs arising from any or wilful misconduct, in which case that party is solely responsible.
BP longer-term environmental consequences of the oil spill, will also impact does not believe that it has been grossly negligent under the terms of the upon the ultimate cost for BP.
Although the provision recognized is the Operating Agreement or at law.
current best estimate of expenditures required to settle certain present As at 31 December 2010, $6 billion had been billed to the obligations at the end of the reporting period, there are future expenditures co-owners, which BP believes to be contractually recoverable.
As further for which it is not possible to measure the obligation reliably.
costs are incurred, BP believes that additional amounts are billable to our The magnitude and timing of possible obligations in relation to the co-owners under the Operating Agreement.
Gulf of Mexico oil spill are subject to a very high degree of uncertainty as Our co-owners have each written to BP indicating that they are described further in Risk factors on pages 27-32.
Any such possible withholding payment in light of the investigations surrounding, and obligations are therefore contingent liabilities and, at present, it is not determination of the root causes of, the incident.
In addition, APC has practicable to estimate their magnitude or possible timing of payment.
publicly accused BP of having been grossly negligent and stated it has no Furthermore, other material unanticipated obligations may arise in future in liability for the incident, both of which claims BP refutes and intends to relation to the incident.
Refer to Financial statements Note 44 on challenge in any legal proceedings.
There are also audit rights concerning page 218 for further information.
billings under the Operating Agreement which may be exercised by APC and MOEX, and which may or may not lead to an adjustment of the amount billed.
BP may ultimately need to enforce its rights to collect payment from the co-owners through an arbitration proceeding as provided for in the Operating Agreement.
There is a risk that amounts billed to co-owners may not ultimately be recovered should our co-owners be found not liable for these costs or be unable to pay them.
126 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
