Information about this report This document constitutes the Annual Report and Accounts in accordance and 73 with regard to the plans of the group, the cost of and provision for with UK requirements and the Annual Report on Form 20-F in accordance future remediation programmes and environmental operating and capital with the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, for BP p. l. c. for the year expenditures, taxation, liquidity and costs for providing pension and other ended 31 December 2010.
A cross reference to Form 20-F requirements is post-retirement benefits: and including under Liquidity and capital on page 2. resources Trend Information, with regard to global economic recovery, oil This document contains the Directors Report, including the and gas prices, petrochemical and refining margins, production, demand for Business Review and Management Report, on pages 5-109 and 123-140, petrochemicals, production and production growth, depreciation, underlying 142 and PC1.
The Directors Remuneration Report is on pages 111-121.
The average quarterly charge from Other businesses and corporate, costs, consolidated financial statements of the group are on pages 141-248 and foreign exchange and energy costs, capital expenditure, timing and the corresponding reports of the auditor are on pages 143-145.
The parent proceeds of divestments, balance of cash inflows and outflows, dividend company financial statements of BP p. l. c. and corresponding auditors and optional scrip dividend, cash flows, shareholder distributions, gearing, report are on pages PC1-PC16 and page PC2 respectively.
working capital, guarantees, expected payments under contractual and The statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the commercial commitments and purchase obligations: and iv certain consolidated financial statements, the independent auditors report on the statements in Chairmans letter pages 6-7 and Business review pages 10- annual report and accounts to the members of BP p. l. c. and the parent 11 in relation to an anticipated increase in the level of the dividend: are all company financial statements of BP p. l. c. and corresponding auditors forward-looking in nature.
report do not form part of BPs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and the SEC.
uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 and BP Summary Review that will or may occur in the future and are outside the control of BP.
Actual 2010 may be downloaded from www.
No material results may differ materially from those expressed in such statements, on the BP website, other than the items identified as BP Annual Report depending on a variety of factors, including the specific factors identified in and Form 20-F 2010 or BP Summary Review 2010, forms any part of the discussions accompanying such forward-looking statements: the timing those documents.
of bringing new fields onstream: future levels of industry product supply, BP p. l. c. is the parent company of the BP group of companies.
demand and pricing: operational problems: general economic conditions: Unless otherwise stated, the text does not distinguish between political stability and economic growth in relevant areas of the world: the activities and operations of the parent company and those of changes in laws and governmental regulations: actions by regulators: its subsidiaries.
exchange rate fluctuations: development and use of new technology: the The term shareholder in this report means, unless the context success or otherwise of partnering: the actions of competitors: natural otherwise requires, investors in the equity capital of BP p. l. c. both direct disasters and adverse weather conditions: changes in public expectations and indirect.
As BP shares, in the form of ADSs, are listed on the New York and other changes to business conditions: wars and acts of terrorism or Stock Exchange NYSE, an Annual Report on Form 20-F is filed with the US sabotage: and other factors discussed elsewhere in this report including Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
In addition to factors set forth elsewhere in this report, those set out above are important factors, although not Cautionary statement exhaustive, that may cause actual results and developments to differ BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 contains certain forward-looking materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation statements.
Reform Act of 1995 with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of BP and certain of the plans and objectives of Statements regarding competitive position BP with respect to these items.
Statements referring to BPs competitive position are based on the In order to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States companys belief and, in some cases, rely on a range of sources, including Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, BP is providing the investment analysts reports, independent market studies and BPs internal following cautionary statement.
This document contains certain forwardassessments of market share based on publicly available information about looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of the financial results and performance of market participants.
operations and businesses of BP and certain of the plans and objectives of BP with respect to these items.
These statements may generally, but not always, be identified by the use of words such as will, expects, is expected to, aims, should, may, objective, is likely to, intends, believes, plans, we see or similar expressions.
In particular, among other statements, i certain statements in the Business review pages 6-82, including under the heading Outlook, with regard to strategy, management aims and objectives, future capital expenditure, the completion of planned and announced divestments and disposals, acquisitions and other transactions, future hydrocarbon production volume and the groups ability to satisfy its long-term sales commitments from future supplies available to the group, date s or period s in which production is scheduled or expected to come onstream or a project or action is scheduled or expected to begin or be completed, capacity of planned plants or facilities and impact of Unless otherwise indicated, information in this document reflects 100% of the assets and health, safety and environmental regulations: ii the statements in the operations of the company and its subsidiaries that were consolidated at the date or for the periods indicated, including minority interests.
The company was incorporated in 1909 Business review pages 6-63 and 68-81 with regard to anticipated energy in England and Wales and changed its name to BP p. l. c. in 2001.
BPs primary share listing demand and consumption, global economic recovery, oil and gas prices, is the London Stock Exchange.
Ordinary shares are also traded on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in Germany and, in the US, the companys securities are traded in the form of ADSs.
global reserves, refining capacity, expected future energy mix and the See page 134 for more details.
potential for cleaner and more efficient sources of energy, management aims and objectives, strategy, production, petrochemical and refining The registered office of BP p. l. c. and our worldwide headquarters, is: 1 St Jamess Square, margins, anticipated investment in Alternative Energy, anticipated future London SW1Y 4PD, UK.
project developments, growth of the international businesses, Refining and Tel 44 0 20 7496 4000.
Registered in England and Wales No.
Marketing investments, reserves increases through technological developments, with regard to planned investment or other projects, timing Our agent in the US is BP America Inc. 501 Westlake Park Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77079. and ability to complete announced transactions and future regulatory Tel 1 281 366 2000. actions: iii the statements in the Business review pages 23-26, 63-67 4 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
