Miscellaneous terms In this document, unless the context Gas mmboe otherwise requires, the following terms Natural gas.
million barrels of oil equivalent.
shall have the meaning set out below.
GCRO mmcf ADR Gulf Coast Restoration Organization.
Hydrocarbons mmcf d ADS Crude oil and natural gas.
million cubic feet per day.
IFRS MW AGM International Financial Reporting Megawatt.
NGLs Amoco Joint control Natural gas liquids.
The former Amoco Corporation and its Joint control is the contractually agreed OPEC subsidiaries.
sharing of control over an economic Organization of Petroleum Exporting Annulus activity, and exists only when the Countries.
The space between two concentric strategic financial and operating Ordinary shares objects, such as between the wellbore decisions relating to the activity require Ordinary fully paid shares in BP p. l. c. of and casing of an oil well or between the unanimous consent of the parties 25c each.
casing and tubing, where fluid can flow.
It allows fluids, such as drilling mud, to Pence or p Joint venture circulate in the well.
A contractual arrangement whereby two Atlantic Richfield or more parties undertake an economic Pound, sterling or Atlantic Richfield Company and its activity that is subject to joint control.
Jointly controlled asset Preference shares Associate A joint venture where the venturers Cumulative First Preference Shares and An entity, including an unincorporated jointly control, and often have a direct Cumulative Second Preference Shares in entity such as a partnership, over which ownership interest in the assets of the BP p. l. c. of 1 each.
the group has significant influence and venture.
The assets are used to obtain PSA that is neither a subsidiary nor a joint benefits for the venturers.
Each venturer A production-sharing agreement PSA is venture.
Significant influence is the may take a share of the output from the an arrangement through which an oil power to participate in the financial and assets and each bears an agreed share company bears the risks and costs of operating policy decisions of an entity of the expenses incurred.
exploration, development and but is not control or joint control over Jointly controlled entity production.
In return, if exploration is those policies.
A joint venture that involves the successful, the oil company receives Barrel establishment of a corporation, entitlement to variable physical volumes 42 US gallons.
partnership or other entity in which each of hydrocarbons, representing recovery venturer has an interest.
A contractual of the costs incurred and a stipulated b d arrangement between the venturers share of the production remaining after barrels per day.
establishes joint control over the such cost recovery.
boe economic activity of the entity.
SEC barrels of oil equivalent.
Liquids The United States Securities and BP, BP group or the group Crude oil, condensate and natural gas Exchange Commission.
BP p. l. c. and its subsidiaries.
Subsidiary Burmah Castrol LNG An entity that is controlled by the BP Burmah Castrol PLC and its subsidiaries.
Control is the power to govern the Cent or c financial and operating policies of an London Stock Exchange or LSE One-hundredth of the US dollar.
entity so as to obtain the benefits from London Stock Exchange plc.
The company LPG BP p. l. c. Tonne Liquefied petroleum gas.
Dollar or $ mb d The US dollar.
Trust thousand barrels per day.
Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust.
EU mboe d UK European Union.
thousand barrels of oil equivalent per United Kingdom of Great Britain and day.
mmBtu US million British thermal units.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 3
