Disposals and impairment continued Exploration and Production During 2010, the Exploration and Production segment recognized impairment losses of $1,259 million.
The main elements were the write-down of assets in the Gulf of Mexico of $501 million triggered by an increase in the decommissioning asset as a result of new regulations in the US relating to idle infrastructure: impairments of oil and gas properties in the Gulf of Mexico and onshore North America of $310 million and $80 million respectively as a result of decisions to dispose of assets at a price lower than the assets carrying values: a write-down of accumulated costs in Sakhalin, Russia by $341 million, triggered by a change in the outlook on the future recoverability of the investment: and several other individually insignificant impairment charges amounting to $27 million.
During 2009, the Exploration and Production segment recognized impairment losses of $118 million.
The main elements were the write-down of our $42 million investment in the East Shmidt interest in Russia, triggered by a decision to not proceed to development: a $62 million charge associated with our nErgize gas scheduling system: and several other individually insignificant impairment charges amounting to $14 million.
During 2008, the Exploration and Production segment recognized impairment losses of $1,186 million.
The main elements were the write-down of our investment in Rosneft by $517 million, to its fair value determined by reference to an active market, due to a significant decline in the market value of the investment, impairment of oil and gas properties in the Gulf of Mexico of $270 million triggered by downward revisions of reserves, an impairment of exploration assets in Vietnam of $210 million following BPs decision to withdraw from activities in the area concerned, impairment of oil and gas properties in Egypt of $85 million triggered by cost increases, and several other individually insignificant impairment charges amounting to $104 million.
These charges were partly offset by reversals of previously recognized impairment losses amounting to $155 million.
Of this total, $122 million resulted from a reassessment of the economics of Rhourde El Baguel in Algeria.
Refining and Marketing During 2010, the Refining and Marketing segment recognized impairment losses amounting to $144 million relating to retail churn in European businesses and other minor asset disposals.
These losses were largely offset by the reversal of a previously recognized impairment charge of $141 million relating to the investment in our associate China American Petrochemical Company resulting from a change in market conditions.
During 2009, an impairment loss of $1,579 million was recognized against the goodwill allocated to the US West Coast fuels value chain FVC.
The goodwill was originally recognized at the time of the ARCO acquisition in 2000.
The prevailing weak refining environment, together with a review of future margin expectations in the FVC, has led to a reduction in the expected future cash flows.
Other impairment losses were also recognized by the segment on a number of assets which amounted to $255 million.
During 2008, the Refining and Marketing segment recognized impairment losses on a number of assets which amounted to $159 million.
Other businesses and corporate During 2010, 2009 and 2008, Other businesses and corporate recognized impairment losses totalling $113 million, $189 million and $227 million respectively related to various assets in the Alternative Energy business.
Events after the reporting period On 22 February 2011, BP announced its intention to sell its interests in a number of operated oil and gas fields in the UK.
The assets involved are the Wytch Farm onshore oilfield in Dorset and all of BPs operated gas fields in the southern North Sea, including associated pipeline infrastructure and the Dimlington terminal.
BP aims to complete the divestments around the end of 2011, subject to receipt of suitable offers and regulatory and third-party approvals.
The assets do not yet meet the criteria to be reclassified as non-current assets held for sale and it is not yet possible to estimate the financial effect of these intended transactions.
On 21 February 2011, BP announced a major strategic alliance with Reliance Industries Limited Reliance in India.
As part of this alliance, BP will purchase a 30 per cent stake in 23 oil and gas production-sharing contracts that Reliance operates in India, including the producing KG D6 block, and the formation of a 50:50 joint venture between the two companies for the sourcing and marketing of gas in India.
The upstream joint venture will combine BPs deepwater exploration and development capabilities with Reliances project management and operations expertise.
The 23 oil and gas blocks together cover approximately 270,000 square kilometres, and Reliance will continue to be the operator under the production-sharing contracts.
BP will pay Reliance an aggregate consideration of $7.2 billion, and completion adjustments, for the interests to be acquired in the 23 production-sharing contracts.
Future performance payments of up to $1.8 billion could be paid based on exploration success that results in development of commercial discoveries.
Completion of the transactions is subject to Indian regulatory approvals and other customary conditions.
On 1 February 2011, BP announced that, following a strategic review, it intends to divest the Texas City refinery and the southern part of its US West Coast fuels value chain, including the Carson refinery, by the end of 2012 subject to all necessary legal and regulatory approvals.
BP will ensure current obligations at Texas City are fulfilled.
On 14 January 2011, BP entered into a share swap agreement with Rosneft Oil Company whereby BP will receive approximately 9.5% of Rosnefts shares in exchange for BP issuing new ordinary shares to Rosneft, resulting in Rosneft holding 5% of BPs ordinary voting shares.
The aggregate value of the shares in BP to be issued to Rosneft is approximately $7.8 billion as at close of trading in London on 14 January 2011.
BP has agreed to issue 988,694,683 ordinary shares to Rosneft: Rosneft has agreed to transfer 1,010,158,003 ordinary shares to BP.
Completion of the transaction is subject to the outcome of the court application referred to in the paragraph below, and related pending arbitral proceedings.
After completion, BPs increased investment in Rosneft will continue to be recognized as an available-for-sale financial asset.
During the period from entering into the agreement until completion, the agreement represents a derivative financial instrument and changes in its fair value will be recognized in BPs income statement in 2011.
166 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
