Business review Business review Maritime regulations Certain definitions BP Shippings operations are subject to extensive national and international regulations governing liability, operations, training, spill prevention and Unless the context indicates otherwise, the following terms have the insurance.
These include: meaning shown below: In US waters, the OPA 90 imposes liability and spill prevention and planning requirements governing, amongst others, tankers, barges and Replacement cost profit offshore facilities.
It also mandates a levy on imported and domestically Replacement cost profit or loss reflects the replacement cost of supplies.
produced oil to fund the oil spill response.
Following the 2010 oil spill in The replacement cost profit or loss for the year is arrived at by excluding the Gulf of Mexico, several members of the US Congress have from profit or loss inventory holding gains and losses and their associated introduced bills proposing to increase or eliminate the OPA 90 liability tax effect.
Replacement cost profit or loss for the group is not a recognized caps, some of them seek to impose a retroactive expansion of liability.
At this time, none of the bills have been enacted into law and their fate is uncertain.
Some states, including Alaska, Washington, Oregon and Inventory holding gains and losses California, impose additional liability for oil spills.
Inventory holding gains and losses represent the difference between the Outside US territorial waters, BP Shipping tankers are subject to cost of sales calculated using the average cost to BP of supplies acquired international liability, spill response and preparedness regulations under during the period and the cost of sales calculated on the first-in first-out the UNs International Maritime Organization, including the International FIFO method after adjusting for any changes in provisions where the net Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution, the MARPOL, the realizable value of the inventory is lower than its cost.
Under the FIFO International Convention on Oil Pollution, Preparedness, Response and method, which we use for IFRS reporting, the cost of inventory charged to Co-operation and the International Convention on Civil Liability for the income statement is based on its historic cost of purchase, or Bunker Oil Pollution Damage.
In April 2010, a new protocol, the manufacture, rather than its replacement cost.
In volatile energy markets, Hazardous and Noxious Substance HNS Convention 2010 was this can have a significant distorting effect on reported income.
The adopted to address issues that have inhibited ratification of the amounts disclosed represent the difference between the charge to the International Convention on Liability and Compensation for Damage in income statement for inventory on a FIFO basis after adjusting for any Connection with the Carriage of Hazardous and Noxious Substances by related movements in net realizable value provisions and the charge that Sea 1996 the HNS Convention.
This protocol will enter into force when would have arisen if an average cost of supplies was used for the period.
1 at least 12 states have agreed to be bound by it four of the states For this purpose, the average cost of supplies during the period is must have at least 2 million gross tonnes of shipping and 2 principally calculated on a monthly basis by dividing the total cost of contributing parties in the consenting states have received at least inventory acquired in the period by the number of barrels acquired.
The 40 million tonnes of contributing cargoes in the preceding year.
amounts disclosed are not separately reflected in the financial statements as a gain or loss.
No adjustment is made in respect of the cost of To meet its financial responsibility requirements, BP Shipping maintains inventories held as part of a trading position and certain other temporary marine liability pollution insurance to a maximum limit of $1 billion for each inventory positions.
occurrence through mutual insurance associations P&I Clubs but there Management believes this information is useful to illustrate to can be no assurance that a spill will necessarily be adequately covered by investors the fact that crude oil and product prices can vary significantly insurance or that liabilities will not exceed insurance recoveries.
from period to period and that the impact on our reported result under IFRS can be significant.
Inventory holding gains and losses vary from period to period principally due to changes in oil prices as well as changes to underlying inventory levels.
In order for investors to understand the operating performance of the group excluding the impact of oil price changes on the replacement of inventories, and to make comparisons of operating performance between reporting periods, BPs management believes it is helpful to disclose this information.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 81 Business review Non-GAAP information on fair value accounting effects OTC contracts BP uses derivative instruments to manage the economic exposure relating These contracts are typically in the form of forwards, swaps and options.
to inventories above normal operating requirements of crude oil, natural gas Some of these contracts are traded bilaterally between counterparties: and petroleum products as well as certain contracts to supply physical others may be cleared by a central clearing counterparty.
These contracts volumes at future dates.
Under IFRS, these inventories and contracts are can be used both for trading and risk management activities.
Realized and recorded at historic cost and on an accruals basis respectively.
The related unrealized gains and losses on OTC contracts are included in sales and derivative instruments, however, are required to be recorded at fair value other operating revenues for accounting purposes.
with gains and losses recognized in income because hedge accounting is The main grades of crude oil bought and sold forward using either not permitted or not followed, principally due to the impracticality of standard contracts are West Texas Intermediate and a standard North Sea effectiveness testing requirements.
Therefore, measurement differences in crude blend Brent, Forties and Oseberg or BFO.
Although the contracts relation to recognition of gains and losses occur.
Gains and losses on these specify physical delivery terms for each crude blend, a significant number inventories and contracts are not recognized until the commodity is sold in are not settled physically.
The contracts typically contain standard delivery, a subsequent accounting period.
Gains and losses on the related derivative pricing and settlement terms.
Additionally, the BFO contract specifies a commodity contracts are recognized in the income statement from the standard volume and tolerance given that the physically settled transactions time the derivative commodity contract is entered into on a fair value basis are delivered by cargo.
using forward prices consistent with the contract maturity.
Gas and power OTC markets are highly developed in North America IFRS requires that inventory held for trading be recorded at its fair and the UK, where the commodities can be bought and sold for delivery in value using period-end spot prices whereas any related derivative future periods.
These contracts are negotiated between two parties to commodity instruments are required to be recorded at values based on purchase and sell gas and power at a specified price, with delivery and forward prices consistent with the contract maturity.
Depending on market settlement at a future date.
Typically, these contracts specify delivery terms conditions, these forward prices can be either higher or lower than spot for the underlying commodity.
Certain of these transactions are not settled prices resulting in measurement differences.
physically, which can be achieved by transacting offsetting sale or purchase BP enters into contracts for pipelines and storage capacity that, contracts for the same location and delivery period that are offset during under IFRS, are recorded on an accruals basis.
These contracts are the scheduling of delivery or dispatch.
The contracts contain standard terms risk-managed using a variety of derivative instruments, which are fair valued such as delivery point, pricing mechanism, settlement terms and under IFRS.
This results in measurement differences in relation to specification of the commodity.
Typically, volume and price are the main recognition of gains and losses.
The way that BP manages the economic exposures described Swaps are often contractual obligations to exchange cash flows above, and measures performance internally, differs from the way these between two parties: a typical swap transaction usually references a activities are measured under IFRS.
BP calculates this difference for floating price and a fixed price with the net difference of the cash flows consolidated entities by comparing the IFRS result with managements being settled.
Options give the holder the right, but not the obligation, to internal measure of performance, under which the inventory and the supply buy or sell crude, oil products, natural gas or power at a specified price on and capacity contracts in question are valued based on fair value using or before a specific future date.
Amounts under these derivative financial relevant forward prices prevailing at the end of the period.
We believe that instruments are settled at expiry.
Typically, netting agreements are used to disclosing managements estimate of this difference provides useful limit credit exposure and support liquidity.
information for investors because it enables investors to see the economic effect of these activities as a whole.
The impacts of fair value accounting Spot and term contracts effects, relative to managements internal measure of performance and a Spot contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a commodity at the market reconciliation to GAAP information is shown on page 26. price prevailing on or around the delivery date when title to the inventory is taken.
Term contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a commodity at Commodity trading contracts regular intervals over an agreed term.
Though spot and term contracts may BPs Exploration and Production and Refining and Marketing segments have a standard form, there is no offsetting mechanism in place.
These both participate in regional and global commodity trading markets in order transactions result in physical delivery with operational and price risk.
Spot to manage, transact and hedge the crude oil, refined products and natural and term contracts typically relate to purchases of crude for a refinery, gas that the group either produces or consumes in its manufacturing purchases of products for marketing, purchases of third-party natural gas, operations.
These physical trading activities, together with associated sales of the groups oil production, sales of the groups oil products and incremental trading opportunities, are discussed further in Exploration and sales of the groups gas production to third parties.
For accounting Production on pages 49-50 and in Refining and Marketing on pages 58-59. purposes, spot and term sales are included in sales and other operating The range of contracts the group enters into in its commodity trading revenues, when title passes.
Similarly, spot and term purchases are operations is as follows.
included in purchases for accounting purposes.
Exchange-traded commodity derivatives These contracts are typically in the form of futures and options traded on a recognized exchange, such as Nymex, SGX and ICE.
Such contracts are traded in standard specifications for the main marker crude oils, such as Brent and West Texas Intermediate, the main product grades, such as gasoline and gasoil, and for natural gas and power.
Gains and losses, otherwise referred to as variation margins, are settled on a daily basis with the relevant exchange.
These contracts are used for the trading and risk management of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and power.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses on exchange-traded commodity derivatives are included in sales and other operating revenues for accounting purposes.
82 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
