Business review Business review In our IBs, demand for our petrochemicals products has improved from the Refining and Marketing low levels in late 2008 and early 2009 caused by the global recession.
This has resulted in an improved environment overall, despite increases in Our Refining and Marketing business is responsible for the supply and industry capacity.
In the aviation industry passenger numbers appear to trading, refining, manufacturing, marketing and transportation of crude oil, have recovered from the depths of the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009.
We petroleum, petrochemicals products and related services to wholesale and have seen a recovery in demand for lubricants from the lows of the past retail customers.
Within Refining and Marketing, BP markets its products in two years in the automotive sector and most strongly in the industrial more than 70 countries.
We have significant operations in Europe and sector of the market following a marked decline in 2009.
Within the context North America and also manufacture and market our products across of overall demand, we continue to see a gradual shift towards higherAustralasia, in China and other parts of Asia, Africa and Central and quality and higher-margin premium and synthetic lubricants.
Base oil prices South America.
have risen throughout the year.
Our organization is managed through two main business groupings: fuels value chains FVCs and international businesses IBs.
The FVCs Our strategy integrate the activities of refining, logistics, marketing, supply and trading, Refining and Marketing is the product and service-led arm of BP, focused on a regional basis, recognizing the geographic nature of the markets in on fuels, lubricants, petrochemicals products and related services.
This provides the opportunity to optimize our activities to be excellent in the markets we choose to be in those that allow BP to from crude oil purchases to end consumer sales through our physical serve the major energy markets of the world.
We are in pursuit of assets refineries, terminals, pipelines and retail stations.
The IBs operate competitive returns and sustainable growth, underpinned by safe on a global basis and include the manufacturing, supply and marketing of manufacturing operations and technology, as we serve customers and lubricants, petrochemicals, aviation fuels and liquefied petroleum gas LPG.
promote BP and our brands through quality products.
We believe that key to success in Refining and Marketing is holding Our market a portfolio of quality, integrated and efficient positions.
The FVC strategy The 2010 operating environment improved overall along with the global globally focuses on feedstock-advantaged, upgraded, well-located refineries economy but was nevertheless still challenging in certain markets.
Global integrated into advantaged logistics and marketing.
In pursuit of this, in the oil demand grew by 2.8 million b d, with growth in the OECD for the first US, we intend to divest our Texas City refinery and southern part of our time since 2005.
However, aggregate OECD oil demand in 2010 remained West Coast FVC, including the Carson refinery, roughly halving our US 3.8 million b d below the 2005 peak.
refining capacity by the end of 2012, subject to all necessary legal and Annual BP global indicator refining margins in 2010 were slightly regulatory approvals.
BP will ensure the fulfilment of the current higher than 2009 levels although the quarterly variation was within a regulatory obligations associated with the Texas City refinery is reflected smaller range.
Within the year, margins followed the pattern of a typical in any transaction.
year, with a peak in the second quarter.
However, fourth-quarter margins In our remaining US FVCs, as well as in our non-US FVCs, we defied historic trends to exceed third-quarter levels because of early winter believe we have a portfolio of well-located refineries, integrated with strong weather in the Northern Hemisphere.
As a result, the BP global indicator marketing positions offering the potential for improvement and growth, refining margin GIM, as defined in footnote e on page 56, averaged either through market growth, margin growth or new access.
From 2011, we will be reporting a new refining Within the IBs, our strategy is to continue to grow these indicator margin, replacing the GIM, which we call the refining marker businesses, which are materially exposed to growth markets.
This adopts a basis that we believe is more closely related Over time we expect to shift the balance of participation and capital to the approach used by many of our competitors.
RMMs are simplified employed from established to growth regions.
regional margin indicators based on product yields and a representative Our objective has been to improve our performance by focusing on crude oil deemed appropriate for the region.
The RMM uses regional crack achieving safe, reliable and compliant operations, restoring missing spreads to calculate the margin indicator and does not include estimates of revenues and delivering sustainable competitive returns and cash flows.
fuel costs and other variable costs.
As a result it is numerically larger than a We intend to improve our financial performance by at least $2 billion the GIM and uses a much smaller product range.
between 2009 and 2012, primarily underpinned by identified efficiency In Europe, where diesel accounts for a large proportion of regional opportunities.
We expect growth to result from the pursuit of further cost consumption, refining margins increased as demand for commercial efficiencies, improved portfolio quality and capturing integration benefits as transport improved with stronger economic activity.
In the US, where well as margin share growth.
In addition, post 2012 we plan to grow our refining is more highly upgraded and the transport market is more gasoline margin through the completion of the upgrade to our Whiting refinery, oriented, refining margins were slightly ahead of 2009.
Refining margins which is already under way.
improved the most in Asia Pacific compared to 2009, but still only averaged We believe that these outcomes will enable us to be a leading $1.63 bbl because of continued additions to refining capacity in the region.
player in each of the markets in which we choose to participate.
Relatively wider fuel oil to crude differentials and light-heavy crude a spreads benefited our highly upgraded refineries and had a positive impact T his performance improvement will be measured by comparing Refining and Marketings replacement cost profit for 2009 with that of 2012, after adjusting for non-operating items, fair on our financial performance in 2010 compared with 2009. value accounting effects and the impact of changes in the refining margin environment, foreign Although oil demand grew, 2010 was also characterized by very low exchange impacts and price-lag effects for crude and product purchases.
market volatility in the oil markets.
A balanced market in crude, together with record inventory levels, led the oil price to remain stable throughout 2010.
After reaching record average levels in 2009, the volatility of dated Brent prices declined in 2010 to the lowest average level in percentage terms, since 1995.
This contrast in the level of market volatility between early 2009 and 2010, led to a significantly weaker supply and trading contribution to the financial performance of Refining and Marketing.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 55
