Additional information for shareholders the LSE may impose a temporary halt in the trading of that companys Share prices and listings shares in the order book to allow the market to re-establish equilibrium.
Dealings in ordinary shares may also take place between an investor and a Markets and market prices market-maker, via a member firm, outside the electronic order book.
The primary market for BPs ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange In the US, the companys securities are traded in the form of ADSs, LSE.
BPs ordinary shares are a constituent element of the Financial Times for which JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. is the depositary the Depositary Stock Exchange 100 Index.
BPs ordinary shares are also traded on the and transfer agent.
The Depositarys principal office is 1 Chase Manhattan Frankfurt stock exchange in Germany.
Each ADS represents six Trading of BPs shares on the LSE is primarily through the use of the ordinary shares.
ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
ADSs Stock Exchange Electronic Trading Service SETS, introduced in 1997 for are evidenced by American depositary receipts ADRs, which may be the largest companies in terms of market capitalization whose primary issued in either certificated or book entry form.
Under SETS, buy and sell orders at specific prices may be The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the highest sent electronically to the exchange by any firm that is a member of the and lowest middle market quotations for BPs ordinary shares and ADSs LSE, on behalf of a client or on behalf of itself acting as a principal.
The for the periods shown.
These are derived from the highest and lowest orders are then anonymously displayed in the order book.
When there is a sales prices as reported on the LSE and New York Stock Exchange match on a buy and a sell order, the trade is executed and automatically NYSE, respectively.
Market prices for the ordinary shares on the LSE and in after-hours trading On 18 February 2011, there were approximately 314,847 holders of record off the LSE, in each case while the NYSE is open, and the market prices for of ordinary shares.
Of these holders, around 1,574 had registered addresses ADSs on the NYSE are closely related due to arbitrage among the various in the US and held a total of some 4,289,836 ordinary shares.
markets, although differences may exist from time to time due to various Since certain of the ordinary shares and ADSs were held by brokers factors, including UK stamp duty reserve tax.
and other nominees, the number of holders of record in the US may not On 18 February 2011, 814,755,024 ADSs equivalent to be representative of the number of beneficial holders or of their country approximately 4,888,530,144 ordinary shares or some 26.01% of the total of residence.
issued share capital, excluding shares held in treasury and shares bought back for cancellation were outstanding and were held by approximately 114,834 ADS holders.
Of these, about 113,490 had registered addresses in the US at that date.
One of the registered holders of ADSs represents some 795,382 underlying holders.
134 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
