Notes on financial statements Notes on financial statements The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the 1.
Significant accounting policies groups accounting policies described in this note, except that IFRS requires that the measure of profit or loss disclosed for each operating segment is Authorization of financial statements and statement of compliance the measure that is provided regularly to the chief operating decision with International Financial Reporting Standards maker.
For BP, this measure of profit or loss is replacement cost profit The consolidated financial statements of the BP group for the year ended before interest and tax which reflects the replacement cost of supplies by 31 December 2010 were approved and signed by the chairman and group excluding from profit inventory holding gains and losses.
Replacement cost chief executive on 2 March 2011 having been duly authorized to do so by profit for the group is not a recognized measure under generally accepted the board of directors.
BP p. l. c. is a public limited company incorporated accounting practice GAAP.
For further information see Note 7. and domiciled in England and Wales.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Interests in joint ventures Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties IASB, IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and in accordance venturers undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
IFRS as adopted by the EU Joint control exists only when the strategic financial and operating differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB, however, the decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the differences have no impact on the groups consolidated financial venturers.
A jointly controlled entity is a joint venture that involves the statements for the years presented.
The significant accounting policies of establishment of a company, partnership or other entity to engage in the group are set out below.
economic activity that the group jointly controls with its fellow venturers.
The results, assets and liabilities of a jointly controlled entity are Basis of preparation incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in a jointly controlled with IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations entity is carried in the balance sheet at cost, plus post-acquisition changes issued and effective for the year ended 31 December 2010, or issued and in the groups share of net assets of the jointly controlled entity, less early adopted.
The standards and interpretations adopted in the year are distributions received and less any impairment in value of the investment.
Loans advanced to jointly controlled entities that have the characteristics of The accounting policies that follow have been consistently applied equity financing are also included in the investment on the group balance to all years presented.
The group balance sheet as at 1 January 2009 is not sheet.
The group income statement reflects the groups share of the presented as it is not affected by the retrospective adoption of any new results after tax of the jointly controlled entity.
accounting policies during the year, nor any other retrospective Financial statements of jointly controlled entities are prepared for restatements or reclassifications.
the same reporting year as the group.
Where necessary, adjustments are The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars made to those financial statements to bring the accounting policies used and all values are rounded to the nearest million dollars $ million, except into line with those of the group.
Unrealized gains on transactions between the group and its jointly For further information regarding the key judgements and estimates controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the made by management in applying the groups accounting policies, refer to jointly controlled entities.
Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the Critical accounting policies on pages 124 to 127, which forms part of these transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
The group assesses investments in jointly controlled entities for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the Basis of consolidation carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication of impairment The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of exists, the carrying amount of the investment is compared with its BP p. l. c. and the entities it controls its subsidiaries drawn up to recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and 31 December each year.
Control comprises the power to govern the value in use.
Where the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from the investment is written down to its recoverable amount.
its activities and is achieved through direct and indirect ownership of voting The group ceases to use the equity method of accounting on the rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way date from which it no longer has joint control or significant influence over of contractual agreement.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of the joint venture or associate respectively, or when the interest becomes their acquisition, being the date on which the group obtains control, and held for sale.
continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
The Certain of the groups activities, particularly in the Exploration and financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting Production segment, are conducted through joint ventures where the year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
venturers have a direct ownership interest in, and jointly control, the assets Intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealized profits arising of the venture.
BP recognizes, on a line-by-line basis in the consolidated from intragroup transactions, have been eliminated.
Unrealized losses are financial statements, its share of the assets, liabilities and expenses of eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of these jointly controlled assets incurred jointly with the other partners, along the asset transferred.
Minority interests represent the equity in subsidiaries with the groups income from the sale of its share of the output and any that is not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the group.
liabilities and expenses that the group has incurred in relation to the venture.
Segmental reporting Interests in associates The groups operating segments are established on the basis of those An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise components of the group that are evaluated regularly by the chief operating significant influence through participation in the financial and operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing policy decisions of the investee, but which is not a subsidiary or a jointly performance.
During the second quarter of 2010 a separate organization controlled entity.
The results, assets and liabilities of an associate are was created within the group to deal with the ongoing response to the Gulf incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of of Mexico oil spill.
This organization reports directly to the group chief accounting as described above for jointly controlled entities.
executive officer and its costs are excluded from the results of the existing operating segments.
Under IFRS its costs are therefore presented as a reconciling item between the sum of the results of the reportable segments and the group results.
150 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
