Business review Fuels value chains Our fuels strategy focuses on optimizing the integrated value of each FVC We have six regionally organized integrated FVCs see map on page 15, that is responsible for the delivery of ground fuels to the market.
We do each of which optimizes the activities of our assets across the supply this by co-ordinating our marketing, refining and trading activities to chain from crude delivery to the refineries: manufacture of high-quality maximize synergies across the whole value chain.
Our priorities are to fuels: pipeline and terminal infrastructure and marketing and sales to operate an advantaged infrastructure and logistics network which includes our customers.
pipelines, storage terminals and road or rail tankers, drive excellence in In addition to the FVCs, the Texas City refinery is operated as a operating and transactional processes, and deliver compelling customer standalone, predominantly merchant, refining business that also supports offers in the various markets in which we operate.
The fuels business our marketing operations on the east and Gulf coasts of the US.
markets a comprehensive range of refined oil products primarily focused on As explained in Our strategy on page 55, we intend to divest the the ground fuels sector.
Texas City refinery complex and exit the southern part of our US West The ground fuels business supplies fuel and related convenience Coast FVC business, including the Carson refinery, by the end of 2012. services to retail consumers through company-owned and franchised retail We also have a number of regionally focused fuels marketing sites, as well as other channels, including wholesalers and jobbers.
It also businesses that are not integrated into a refinery, covering the UK, Turkey, supplies commercial customers within the transport and industrial sectors.
China and our remaining business-to-business fuels marketing activities Our retail network is largely concentrated in Europe and the US, but in France.
also has established operations in Australasia, as well as southern and We currently own or have a share in 16 refineries, which eastern Africa.
We have developed networks in China in two separate joint produce refined fuel products that we then supply to retail and commercial ventures, one with Petrochina and the other with China Petroleum and customers.
Our refining focus is to maintain and improve our competitive At 31 December 2010, BPs worldwide network consisted of some position through sustainable, safe, reliable, compliant and efficient 22,100 sites, primarily branded BP, ARCO and Aral.
During 2010 we sold operations of the refining system and disciplined investment for around 400 sites in France to Delek Europe B. V. These will continue to be integrity management, to achieve competitively advantaged configuration operated under the BP brand through a brand licensing agreement.
Our retail convenience operations offer consumers a range of food, For BP, the strategic advantage of a refinery relates to its location, drink and other consumables and services on the fuel forecourt in a integration, scale and configuration to produce fuels from lower-cost convenient and innovative manner.
The convenience offer includes brands feedstocks in line with the demand of the region.
Strategic investments such as ampm, Wild Bean Caf and Petit Bistro.
in our refineries are focused on securing the safety and reliability of our In the US, our ampm brand is operated as a convenience retail assets while improving our competitive position.
In addition, we continue franchise model.
Overall in the US, by the end of 2010 there were 11,300 to invest to develop the capability to produce the cleaner fuels that meet branded retail sites, of which 1,100 were branded ampm, compared with the requirements of our customers and their communities.
11,500 and 1,200 respectively at the beginning of 2010.
The following table outlines by region the volume of crude oil and In Europe, we had approximately 8,400 branded retail sites at the feedstock processed by BP for its own account and for third parties.
We are also one of the largest forecourt convenience retailers, Corresponding BP refinery capacity utilization data is summarized below.
with about 1,600 convenience retail sites in nine countries.
We are growing our food-on-the-go and fresh grocery services through BP-owned brands thousand barrels per day and partnerships with leading retailers such as Marks & Spencer.
a Refinery throughputs 2010 2009 2008 In addition, at the end of 2010, we had approximately 2,400 branded retail US 1,350 1,238 1,121 sites outside Europe and the US in countries such as Australia, New Europe 775 755 739 Zealand and South Africa.
Rest of World 301 294 295 The table below outlines the number of BP-branded retail sites by region.
Total 2,426 2,287 2,155 Refinery capacity utilization Number of retail sites operated under a BP brand Crude distillation capacity at a b b Retail sites 2010 2009 2008 31 December 2,667 2,666 2,678 c US 11,300 11,500 11,700 Refinery utilization 91% 86% 81% Europe 8,400 8,600 8,600 US 93% 85% 77% Rest of World 2,400 2,300 2,300 Europe 91% 89% 87% Rest of World 84% 83% 80% Total 22,100 22,400 22,600 a a Refinery throughputs reflect crude oil and other feedstock volumes.
The number of retail sites includes sites not operated by BP but instead operated by dealers, b Crude distillation capacity is gross rated capacity, which is defined as the highest average sustained jobbers, franchisees or brand licensees that operate under a BP brand.
These may move to or from unit rate for a consecutive 30-day period.
the BP brand as their fuel supply or brand licence agreements expire and are renegotiated in the c R efinery utilization is annual throughput divided by crude distillation capacity, expressed as a normal course of business.
Retail sites are primarily branded BP, ARCO and Aral.
The measure was redefined in 2009 to be more consistent with industry standards.
Excludes our interest in equity-accounted entities which are dual-branded.
The group has a long-established integrated supply and trading function Refinery throughputs increased by 139mb d in 2010 relative to 2009, driven responsible for delivering value across the overall crude and oil products principally by higher availability, particularly at Texas City and Whiting.
This structure enables the optimization of BPs FVCs to In addition to refined petroleum products we also blend and market maintain a single interface with the oil trading markets and to operate with biofuels.
Biogasoline bioethanol and biodiesel hydrogenated vegetable a single set of trading compliance processes, systems and controls.
The oils and fatty acid methyl esters continue to grow in volume, primarily in business has trading offices in Europe, the US and Asia to enable the Europe and the US, as regulatory requirements demand heavier blending function to maintain a presence in the regionally connected global markets.
Our response is to continue to develop blend capabilities, and to The oil supply and trading function has operated through a period of work with regulators, biofuels supply chains and other stakeholders to challenging trading conditions in 2010 due to lower price volatility, tighter improve the sustainability of the biofuels that we blend and supply.
product and sweet vs sour crude oil spreads, and reduced contango i. e. spot vs future price opportunities.
The weaker trading environment is a result of OPEC crude supply availability, refining and storage spare capacity.
The supply and trading function supported the group through a period of uncertainty in the credit markets concerning BPs financial position following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
58 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
