Notes on financial statements Notes on financial statements The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the 1.
Significant accounting policies groups accounting policies described in this note, except that IFRS requires that the measure of profit or loss disclosed for each operating segment is Authorization of financial statements and statement of compliance the measure that is provided regularly to the chief operating decision with International Financial Reporting Standards maker.
For BP, this measure of profit or loss is replacement cost profit The consolidated financial statements of the BP group for the year ended before interest and tax which reflects the replacement cost of supplies by 31 December 2010 were approved and signed by the chairman and group excluding from profit inventory holding gains and losses.
Replacement cost chief executive on 2 March 2011 having been duly authorized to do so by profit for the group is not a recognized measure under generally accepted the board of directors.
BP p. l. c. is a public limited company incorporated accounting practice GAAP.
For further information see Note 7. and domiciled in England and Wales.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Interests in joint ventures Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties IASB, IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and in accordance venturers undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
IFRS as adopted by the EU Joint control exists only when the strategic financial and operating differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB, however, the decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the differences have no impact on the groups consolidated financial venturers.
A jointly controlled entity is a joint venture that involves the statements for the years presented.
The significant accounting policies of establishment of a company, partnership or other entity to engage in the group are set out below.
economic activity that the group jointly controls with its fellow venturers.
The results, assets and liabilities of a jointly controlled entity are Basis of preparation incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in a jointly controlled with IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations entity is carried in the balance sheet at cost, plus post-acquisition changes issued and effective for the year ended 31 December 2010, or issued and in the groups share of net assets of the jointly controlled entity, less early adopted.
The standards and interpretations adopted in the year are distributions received and less any impairment in value of the investment.
Loans advanced to jointly controlled entities that have the characteristics of The accounting policies that follow have been consistently applied equity financing are also included in the investment on the group balance to all years presented.
The group balance sheet as at 1 January 2009 is not sheet.
The group income statement reflects the groups share of the presented as it is not affected by the retrospective adoption of any new results after tax of the jointly controlled entity.
accounting policies during the year, nor any other retrospective Financial statements of jointly controlled entities are prepared for restatements or reclassifications.
the same reporting year as the group.
Where necessary, adjustments are The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars made to those financial statements to bring the accounting policies used and all values are rounded to the nearest million dollars $ million, except into line with those of the group.
Unrealized gains on transactions between the group and its jointly For further information regarding the key judgements and estimates controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the made by management in applying the groups accounting policies, refer to jointly controlled entities.
Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the Critical accounting policies on pages 124 to 127, which forms part of these transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
The group assesses investments in jointly controlled entities for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the Basis of consolidation carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication of impairment The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of exists, the carrying amount of the investment is compared with its BP p. l. c. and the entities it controls its subsidiaries drawn up to recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and 31 December each year.
Control comprises the power to govern the value in use.
Where the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from the investment is written down to its recoverable amount.
its activities and is achieved through direct and indirect ownership of voting The group ceases to use the equity method of accounting on the rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way date from which it no longer has joint control or significant influence over of contractual agreement.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of the joint venture or associate respectively, or when the interest becomes their acquisition, being the date on which the group obtains control, and held for sale.
continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
The Certain of the groups activities, particularly in the Exploration and financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting Production segment, are conducted through joint ventures where the year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
venturers have a direct ownership interest in, and jointly control, the assets Intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealized profits arising of the venture.
BP recognizes, on a line-by-line basis in the consolidated from intragroup transactions, have been eliminated.
Unrealized losses are financial statements, its share of the assets, liabilities and expenses of eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of these jointly controlled assets incurred jointly with the other partners, along the asset transferred.
Minority interests represent the equity in subsidiaries with the groups income from the sale of its share of the output and any that is not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the group.
liabilities and expenses that the group has incurred in relation to the venture.
Segmental reporting Interests in associates The groups operating segments are established on the basis of those An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise components of the group that are evaluated regularly by the chief operating significant influence through participation in the financial and operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing policy decisions of the investee, but which is not a subsidiary or a jointly performance.
During the second quarter of 2010 a separate organization controlled entity.
The results, assets and liabilities of an associate are was created within the group to deal with the ongoing response to the Gulf incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of of Mexico oil spill.
This organization reports directly to the group chief accounting as described above for jointly controlled entities.
executive officer and its costs are excluded from the results of the existing operating segments.
Under IFRS its costs are therefore presented as a reconciling item between the sum of the results of the reportable segments and the group results.
150 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Financial statements Notes on financial statements Business combinations undertaken prior to 2010 were accounted for using 1.
Significant accounting policies continued the acquisition method of accounting but there were some differences in the Foreign currency translation accounting treatment compared to what is required for 2010.
See Impact of Functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in new International Financial Reporting Standards on page 157 for further which an entity operates and is normally the currency in which the entity information.
There were no material business combinations undertaken prior primarily generates and expends cash.
to 2010 in the periods covered by these financial statements.
In individual companies, transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the rate of exchange Non-current assets held for sale ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into the functional measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale resulting exchange differences are included in the income statement.
if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction rather Non-monetary assets and liabilities, other than those measured at fair than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when value, are not retranslated subsequent to initial recognition.
the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for In the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual non-US dollar functional currency subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and and customary for sales of such assets.
Management must be committed associates, including related goodwill, are translated into US dollars at the to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results and cash sale within one year from the date of classification as held for sale.
flows of non-US dollar functional currency subsidiaries, jointly controlled Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once classified entities and associates are translated into US dollars using average rates of as held for sale are not depreciated.
The group ceases to use the equity exchange.
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and method of accounting on the date from which an interest in a jointly the profits for the year retained by non-US dollar functional currency controlled entity or an interest in an associate becomes held for sale.
subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates are translated into US dollars are taken to a separate component of equity and reported in the Intangible assets statement of comprehensive income.
Exchange gains and losses arising on Intangible assets, other than goodwill, include expenditure on the long-term intragroup foreign currency borrowings used to finance the exploration for and evaluation of oil and natural gas resources, computer groups non-US dollar investments are also taken to equity.
On disposal of a software, patents, licences and trademarks and are stated at the amount non-US dollar functional currency subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or initially recognized, less accumulated amortization and accumulated associate, the deferred cumulative amount of exchange gains and losses impairment losses.
For information on expenditure on the exploration for recognized in equity relating to that particular non-US dollar operation is and evaluation of oil and gas resources, see the accounting policy for oil reclassified to the income statement.
and natural gas exploration, appraisal and development expenditure below.
Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried Business combinations and goodwill initially at cost.
The initial cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
An intangible The identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are measured at asset acquired as part of a business combination is measured at fair value their fair values at the acquisition date.
The cost of an acquisition is at the date of acquisition and is recognized separately from goodwill if the measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights.
acquisition-date fair value, and the amount of any minority interest in the Intangible assets with a finite life are amortized on a straight-line acquiree.
Minority interests are stated either at fair value or at the basis over their expected useful lives.
For patents, licences and trademarks, proportionate share of the recognized amounts of the acquirees identifiable expected useful life is the shorter of the duration of the legal agreement net assets.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in and economic useful life, and can range from three to 15 years.
Computer distribution and administration expenses.
software costs generally have a useful life of three to five years.
Goodwill is measured as being the excess of the aggregate of the The expected useful lives of assets are reviewed on an annual basis consideration transferred, the amount recognized for any minority interest and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
and the acquisition-date fair values of any previously held interest in the The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value assumed at the acquisition date.
At the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combinations Oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and development synergies.
For this purpose, cash-generating units are set at one level expenditure below a business segment.
Oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and development expenditure Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any is accounted for using the principles of the successful efforts method accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually of accounting.
or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Impairment is determined by assessing the Licence and property acquisition costs recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Exploration licence and leasehold property acquisition costs are capitalized Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the within intangible assets and are reviewed at each reporting date to confirm carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized.
An impairment loss that there is no indication that the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable recognized for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
This review includes confirming that exploration drilling is still Goodwill arising on business combinations prior to 1 January 2003 under way or firmly planned or that it has been determined, or work is is stated at the previous carrying amount, less subsequent impairments, under way to determine, that the discovery is economically viable based on under UK generally accepted accounting practice.
a range of technical and commercial considerations and sufficient progress Goodwill may also arise upon investments in jointly controlled is being made on establishing development plans and timing.
If no future entities and associates, being the surplus of the cost of investment over activity is planned, the remaining balance of the licence and property the groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets.
Such acquisition costs is written off.
Lower value licences are pooled and goodwill is recorded within investments in jointly controlled entities and amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated period of exploration.
associates, and any impairment of the investment is included within the Upon recognition of proved reserves and internal approval for development, earnings from jointly controlled entities and associates.
the relevant expenditure is transferred to property, plant and equipment.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 151 Notes on financial statements Other property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight line basis 1.
Significant accounting policies continued over its expected useful life.
The useful lives of the groups other property, Exploration and appraisal expenditure plant and equipment are as follows: Geological and geophysical exploration costs are charged against income as incurred.
Costs directly associated with an exploration well are initially Land improvements 15 to 25 years capitalized as an intangible asset until the drilling of the well is complete Buildings 20 to 50 years and the results have been evaluated.
These costs include employee Refineries 20 to 30 years remuneration, materials and fuel used, rig costs and payments made to Petrochemicals 20 to 30 years contractors.
If potentially commercial quantities of hydrocarbons are not Pipelines 10 to 50 years found, the exploration well is written off as a dry hole.
If hydrocarbons are Service stations 15 years found and, subject to further appraisal activity, are likely to be capable of Office equipment 3 to 7 years commercial development, the costs continue to be carried as an asset.
Fixtures and fittings 5 to 15 years Costs directly associated with appraisal activity, undertaken to determine the size, characteristics and commercial potential of a reservoir The expected useful lives of property, plant and equipment are reviewed on following the initial discovery of hydrocarbons, including the costs of an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are accounted for appraisal wells where hydrocarbons were not found, are initially capitalized prospectively.
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for All such carried costs are subject to technical, commercial and impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the management review at least once a year to confirm the continued intent to carrying value may not be recoverable.
develop or otherwise extract value from the discovery.
When this is no An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon longer the case, the costs are written off.
When proved reserves of oil and disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from natural gas are determined and development is approved by management, the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the relevant expenditure is transferred to property, plant and equipment.
the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement in Development expenditure the period in which the item is derecognized.
Expenditure on the construction, installation and completion of infrastructure facilities such as platforms, pipelines and the drilling of Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment development wells, including service and unsuccessful development or The group assesses assets or groups of assets for impairment whenever delineation wells, is capitalized within property, plant and equipment and is events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an depreciated from the commencement of production as described below in asset may not be recoverable, for example, low prices or margins for an the accounting policy for property, plant and equipment.
extended period or, for oil and gas assets, significant downward revisions of estimated volumes or increases in estimated future development Property, plant and equipment expenditure.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the group makes Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Individual assets are depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
grouped for impairment assessment purposes at the lowest level at which The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into flows of other groups of assets.
An asset groups recoverable amount is operation, the initial estimate of any decommissioning obligation, if any, the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Where the and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs.
The purchase price or carrying amount of an asset group exceeds its recoverable amount, the construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any asset group is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable other consideration given to acquire the asset.
The capitalized value of a amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are finance lease is also included within property, plant and equipment.
adjusted for the risks specific to the asset group and are discounted to their Exchanges of assets are measured at fair value unless the exchange present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market transaction lacks commercial substance or the fair value of neither the assessments of the time value of money.
asset received nor the asset given up is reliably measurable.
The cost of the An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there acquired asset is measured at the fair value of the asset given up, unless is any indication that previously recognized impairment losses may no the fair value of the asset received is more clearly evident.
Where fair value longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the is not used, the cost of the acquired asset is measured at the carrying recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognized impairment loss amount of the asset given up.
The gain or loss on derecognition of the is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to asset given up is recognized in profit or loss.
determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss Expenditure on major maintenance refits or repairs comprises the was recognized.
If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is cost of replacement assets or parts of assets, inspection costs and increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed overhaul costs.
Where an asset or part of an asset that was separately the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, depreciated is replaced and it is probable that future economic benefits had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior years.
Such associated with the item will flow to the group, the expenditure is reversal is recognized in profit or loss.
After such a reversal, the capitalized and the carrying amount of the replaced asset is derecognized.
depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets Inspection costs associated with major maintenance programmes are revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over capitalized and amortized over the period to the next inspection.
Overhaul its remaining useful life.
costs for major maintenance programmes, and all other maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
Oil and natural gas properties, including related pipelines, are depreciated using a unit-of-production method.
The cost of producing wells is amortized over proved developed reserves.
Licence acquisition, common facilities and future decommissioning costs are amortized over total proved reserves.
The unit-of-production rate for the amortization of common facilities costs takes into account expenditures incurred to date, together with the future capital expenditure expected to be incurred in relation to these common facilities and excluding future drilling costs.
152 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Financial statements Notes on financial statements Available-for-sale financial assets 1.
Significant accounting policies continued If an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, the cumulative loss Financial assets previously recognized in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Financial assets are classified as loans and receivables: available-for-sale Any subsequent recovery in the fair value of the asset is recognized within financial assets: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: or as other comprehensive income.
derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an appropriate.
Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, trade unquoted equity instrument that is carried at cost has been incurred, the receivables, other receivables, loans, other investments, and derivative amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets financial instruments.
The group determines the classification of its financial carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets are recognized initially at fair discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
value, normally being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable Inventories transaction costs.
Inventories, other than inventory held for trading purposes, are stated at The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their the lower of cost and net realizable value.
Cost is determined by the first-in classification, as follows: first-out method and comprises direct purchase costs, cost of production, transportation and manufacturing expenses.
Net realizable value is Loans and receivables determined by reference to prices existing at the balance sheet date.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or Inventories held for trading purposes are stated at fair value less determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such costs to sell and any changes in net realizable value are recognized in the assets are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method if income statement.
the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognized in Supplies are valued at cost to the group mainly using the average income when the loans and receivables are derecognized or impaired, as method or net realizable value, whichever is the lower.
well as through the amortization process.
This category of financial assets includes trade and other receivables.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through Available-for-sale financial assets profit or loss: derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets hedge: or as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost, as appropriate.
that are not classified as loans and receivables.
After initial recognition, Financial liabilities include trade and other payables, accruals, most items of available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value, with gains or finance debt and derivative financial instruments.
The group determines the losses recognized within other comprehensive income.
Accumulated classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
The measurement changes in fair value are recorded as a separate component of equity until of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as follows: the investment is derecognized or impaired.
The fair value of quoted investments is determined by reference to Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Where there Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedging instruments, is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
are classified as held for trading and are included in this category.
These Where fair value cannot be reliably measured, assets are carried at cost.
liabilities are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognized in the income statement.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedging instruments, Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge are classified as held for trading and are included in this category.
These Such derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value.
The assets are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluation is described recognized in the income statement.
below in the accounting policy for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge Such derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value.
The Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluation is described All other financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value.
For below in the accounting policy for derivative financial instruments and interest-bearing loans and borrowings this is the fair value of the proceeds hedging activities.
received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After initial recognition, other financial liabilities are subsequently Impairment of financial assets measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method.
Amortized The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount group of financial assets is impaired.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or cancellation of liabilities are recognized respectively in Loans and receivables interest and other revenues and finance costs.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and This category of financial liabilities includes trade and other payables receivables carried at amortized cost has been incurred, the amount of the and finance debt.
loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced, with the amount of the loss recognized in the income statement.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 153 Notes on financial statements Fair value hedges 1.
Significant accounting policies continued The change in fair value of a hedging derivative is recognized in profit or Leases loss.
The change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the risk Finance leases, which transfer to the group substantially all the risks and being hedged is recorded as part of the carrying value of the hedged item benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalized at the and is also recognized in profit or loss.
commencement of the lease term at the fair value of the leased property The group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging fixed or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance interest rate risk on borrowings.
The gain or loss relating to the effective charges are allocated to each period so as to achieve a constant rate of portion of the interest rate swap is recognized in the income statement interest on the remaining balance of the liability and are charged directly within finance costs, offsetting the amortization of the interest on the against income.
Capitalized leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the If the criteria for hedge accounting are no longer met, or if the group estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
revokes the designation, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense in the hedged item for which the effective interest rate method is used is income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
amortized to profit or loss over the period to maturity.
For both finance and operating leases, contingent rents are recognized in the income statement in the period in which they Cash flow hedges are incurred.
For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognized within other comprehensive income, Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities while the ineffective portion is recognized in profit or loss.
Amounts taken The group uses derivative financial instruments to manage certain to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates transaction affects profit or loss.
The gain or loss relating to the effective and commodity prices as well as for trading purposes.
Such derivative portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable rate borrowings is financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value on the date on recognized in the income statement within finance costs.
which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair liability, such as a forecast transaction for the purchase of property, plant value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
and equipment, the amounts recognized within other comprehensive Contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net income are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial in cash or another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial asset or liability.
instruments as if the contracts were financial instruments, with the If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised exception of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in accordance amounts previously recognized within other comprehensive income remain with the groups expected purchase, sale or usage requirements, are in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to the accounted for as financial instruments.
income statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives asset or liability as above.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to that are not designated as effective hedging instruments are recognized in occur, amounts previously recognized in equity are reclassified to the the income statement.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: Fair value hedges when hedging exposure to changes in the fair value Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation of a recognized asset or liability.
For hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, the effective portion Cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognized within other that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognized in profit recognized asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
when the foreign operation is sold or partially disposed of.
At the inception of a hedge relationship the group formally designates and Embedded derivatives documents the hedge relationship for which the group wishes to claim Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts hedge accounting, together with the risk management objective and are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation includes not closely related to those of the host contract.
Contracts are assessed for identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, embedded derivatives when the group becomes a party to them, including the nature of the risk being hedged, and how the entity will assess the at the date of a business combination.
Embedded derivatives are measured hedging instrument effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Any gains or losses arising from the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged item.
changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows.
Hedges meeting the criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: 154 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Financial statements Notes on financial statements Environmental expenditures and liabilities 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Environmental expenditures that relate to current or future revenues are Provisions, contingencies and reimbursement assets expensed or capitalized as appropriate.
Expenditures that relate to an Provisions are recognized when the group has a present obligation legal or existing condition caused by past operations and do not contribute to constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of current or future earnings are expensed.
resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the Liabilities for environmental costs are recognized when a clean-up is obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the probable and the associated costs can be reliably estimated.
Where appropriate, the future cash flow estimates are adjusted timing of recognition of these provisions coincides with the commitment to reflect risks specific to the liability.
to a formal plan of action or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are inactive sites.
determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax The amount recognized is the best estimate of the expenditure risk-free rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of required.
Where the liability will not be settled for a number of years, money.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the the amount recognized is the present value of the estimated passage of time is recognized within finance costs.
Provisions are split future expenditure.
between amounts expected to be settled within 12 months of the balance sheet date current and amounts expected to be settled later non-current.
Employee benefits Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will Wages, salaries, bonuses, social security contributions, paid annual leave only be confirmed by future events not wholly within the control of the and sick leave are accrued in the period in which the associated services group, or present obligations where it is not probable that an outflow of are rendered by employees of the group.
Deferred bonus arrangements resources will be required or the amount of the obligation cannot be that have a vesting date more than 12 months after the period end are measured with sufficient reliability.
Contingent liabilities are not recognized valued on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and in the financial statements but are disclosed unless the possibility of an amortized on a straight-line basis over the service period until the award outflow of economic resources is considered remote.
The accounting policies for share-based payments and for pensions Where the group makes contributions into a separately and other post-retirement benefits are described below.
administered fund for restoration, environmental or other obligations, which it does not control, and the groups right to the assets in the fund is Share-based payments restricted, the obligation to contribute to the fund is recognized as a liability Equity-settled transactions where it is probable that such additional contributions will be made.
The The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by group recognizes a reimbursement asset separately, being the lower of the reference to the fair value at the date at which equity instruments are amount of the associated restoration, environmental or other provision and granted and is recognized as an expense over the vesting period, which the groups share of the fair value of the net assets of the fund available ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to to contributors.
Fair value is determined by using an appropriate valuation Amounts that BP has a contractual right to recover from third model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any parties are contingent assets.
Such amounts are not recognized in the vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of accounts unless they are virtually certain to be received.
Non-vesting conditions, such as the condition that employees contribute to a savings-related plan, are taken into Decommissioning account in the grant-date fair value, and failure to meet a non-vesting Liabilities for decommissioning costs are recognized when the group has condition is treated as a cancellation, where this is within the control of an obligation to dismantle and remove a facility or an item of plant and to the employee.
restore the site on which it is located, and when a reliable estimate of that No expense is recognized for awards that do not ultimately vest, liability can be made.
Where an obligation exists for a new facility, such as except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, oil and natural gas production or transportation facilities, this will be on which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market construction or installation.
An obligation for decommissioning may also condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are crystallize during the period of operation of a facility through a change in satisfied.
legislation or through a decision to terminate operations.
The amount At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense recognized is the present value of the estimated future expenditure is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has determined in accordance with local conditions and requirements.
expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise A corresponding item of property, plant and equipment of an of non-market conditions and the number of equity instruments that will amount equivalent to the provision is also recognized.
This is subsequently ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market depreciated as part of the asset.
condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in Other than the unwinding discount on the provision, any change in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognized in the present value of the estimated expenditure is reflected as an the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
adjustment to the provision and the corresponding item of property, plant When the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new and equipment.
Such changes include foreign exchange gains and losses award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost arising on the retranslation of the liability into the functional currency of based on the original award terms continues to be recognized over the the reporting entity, when it is known that the liability will be settled in a original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognized over the foreign currency.
remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognized if this difference is negative.
When an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet recognized in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 155 Notes on financial statements In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with 1.
Significant accounting policies continued investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, Cash-settled transactions except where the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured at fair value and the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary recognized as an expense over the vesting period, with a corresponding differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
liability recognized on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible temporary differences, Pensions and other post-retirement benefits carry-forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method, deductible temporary differences and the carry-forward of unused tax which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine credits and unused tax losses can be utilized: current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the Except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible present value of the defined benefit obligation.
Past service costs are temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or recognized immediately when the company becomes committed to a liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the change in pension plan design.
When a settlement eliminating all time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor obligations for benefits already accrued or a curtailment reducing future taxable profit or loss.
obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with a reduction in future entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the deferred tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it is probable resultant gain or loss is recognized in the income statement during the that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents the differences can be utilized.
change in present value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance present value of the benefit obligation, taking into account material changes sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that in the obligation during the year.
The expected return on plan assets is sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long-term income tax asset to be utilized.
market returns on plan assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realized or the liability is The difference between the expected return on plan assets and the settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or interest cost is recognized in the income statement as other finance substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Tax relating to items recognized in other comprehensive income Actuarial gains and losses are recognized in full within other is recognized in other comprehensive income and tax relating to items comprehensive income in the year in which they occur.
recognized in equity is recognized directly in equity and not in the The defined benefit pension plan surplus or deficit in the balance income statement.
sheet comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the defined benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate Customs duties and sales taxes bonds, less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to Revenues, expenses and assets are recognized net of the amount of be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price information and, in customs duties or sales tax except: the case of quoted securities, is the published bid price.
Where the customs duty or sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognized in the and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which income statement in the period in which they become payable.
case the customs duty or sales tax is recognized as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable.
Corporate taxes Receivables and payables are stated with the amount of customs duty Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and or sales tax included.
Interest and penalties relating to tax are also included in income tax expense.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profits for the authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable Own equity instruments or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never The groups holdings in its own equity instruments, including ordinary taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using shares held by Employee Share Ownership Plans ESOPs, are classified as tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance treasury shares, or own shares for the ESOPs, and are shown as sheet date.
deductions from shareholders equity at cost.
Consideration received for Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary the sale of such shares is also recognized in equity, with any difference differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken to the liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
profit and loss account reserve.
No gain or loss is recognized in the income Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
differences: Except where the deferred tax liability arises on goodwill that is not tax deductible or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
156 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Financial statements Notes on financial statements Impact of new International Financial Reporting Standards 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Adopted for 2010 Revenue The following revised or amended IFRSs were adopted by the group with Revenue arising from the sale of goods is recognized when the significant effect from 1 January 2010. risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer and it can be In January 2008, the IASB issued a revised version of IFRS 3 reliably measured.
The revised standard still requires the purchase Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received method of accounting to be applied to business combinations but or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided introduces some changes to the accounting treatment.
For example, in the normal course of business, net of discounts, customs duties and contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the date of acquisition sales taxes.
and subsequently remeasured to fair value with changes recognized in Revenues associated with the sale of oil, natural gas, natural gas profit or loss.
Goodwill may be calculated based on the parents share of liquids, liquefied natural gas, petroleum and petrochemicals products and all net assets or it may include goodwill related to the minority interest.
All other items are recognized when the title passes to the customer.
Physical transaction costs are expensed.
Assets and liabilities arising from business exchanges are reported net, as are sales and purchases made with a combinations that occurred before 1 January 2010 were not required to be common counterparty, as part of an arrangement similar to a physical restated and thus, on adoption there was no effect on the groups reported exchange.
Similarly, where the group acts as agent on behalf of a third income or net assets.
party to procure or market energy commodities, any associated fee income In January 2008, the IASB issued a revised version of IAS 27 is recognized but no purchase or sale is recorded.
Additionally, where Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, which requires the forward sale and purchase contracts for oil, natural gas or power have been effects of all transactions with minority interests to be recorded in equity if determined to be for trading purposes, the associated sales and purchases there is no change in control.
When control is lost, any remaining interest in are reported net within sales and other operating revenues whether or not the entity is remeasured to fair value and a gain or loss recognized in profit physical delivery has occurred.
There was no effect on the groups reported income or net assets Generally, revenues from the production of oil and natural gas on adoption.
properties in which the group has an interest with joint venture partners are In addition, several other standards and interpretations were recognized on the basis of the groups working interest in those properties adopted in the year which had no significant impact on the financial the entitlement method.
Differences between the production sold and the statements.
groups share of production are not significant.
Interest income is recognized as the interest accrues using the Not yet adopted effective interest rate that is the rate that exactly discounts estimated The following pronouncements from the IASB will become effective future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to for future financial reporting periods and have not yet been adopted by the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
Dividend income from investments is recognized when the As part of the IASBs project to replace IAS 39 Financial shareholders right to receive the payment is established.
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, in November 2009, the IASB issued the first phase of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, dealing with the Research classification and measurement of financial assets.
In October 2010, the Research costs are expensed as incurred.
IASB updated IFRS 9 by incorporating the requirements for the accounting for financial liabilities.
The new standard is effective for annual periods Finance costs beginning on or after 1 January 2013 with transitional arrangements Finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or depending upon the date of initial application.
BP has not yet decided the production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a date of initial application for the group and has not yet completed its substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use, are added to evaluation of the effect of adoption.
The new standard has not yet been the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially adopted by the EU.
ready for their intended use.
All other finance costs are recognized in the There are no other standards and interpretations in issue but not yet income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
adopted that the directors anticipate will have a material effect on the reported income or net assets of the group.
Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 157
