Corporate governance Corporate governance The companys internal control over financial reporting includes policies Principal accountants fees and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions and services of assets: provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance The audit committee has established policies and procedures for the with IFRS and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in engagement of the independent registered public accounting firm, accordance with authorizations of management and the directors of BP: Ernst & Young LLP, to render audit and certain assurance and tax services.
and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection The policies provide for pre-approval by the audit committee of specifically of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of BPs assets that could defined audit, audit-related, tax and other services that are not prohibited have a material effect on our financial statements.
BPs internal control by regulatory or other professional requirements.
Ernst & Young is engaged over financial reporting as of 31 December 2010 has been audited by for these services when its expertise and experience of BP are important.
Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as Most of this work is of an audit nature.
Tax services were awarded either stated in their report appearing on page 143 of this Annual Report and through a full competitive tender process or following an assessment of Form 20-F 2010. the expertise of Ernst & Young relative to that of other potential service providers.
These services are for a fixed term.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting Under the policy, pre-approval is given for specific services within The material impact of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill on the financial results of the following categories: advice on accounting, auditing and financial the company presented challenges for the companys internal control over reporting matters: internal accounting and risk management control financial reporting.
As discussed in the Business Review section, response reviews excluding any services relating to information systems design and operations following the incident were managed by the Unified Area implementation : non-statutory audit: project assurance and advice on Command UAC using, in some cases, processes and systems that the business and accounting process improvement excluding any services company did not determine or control.
As parties outside of the company relating to information systems design and implementation relating to BPs had final decision-making authority on response-related actions, the financial statements or accounting records : due diligence in connection activities undertaken by the company and its sub-contractors, and the with acquisitions, disposals and joint ventures excluding valuation or associated costs, were not wholly within the companys control.
A high involvement in prospective financial information : income tax and indirect level of activity and expenditure was generated in a very short time with tax compliance and advisory services: and employee tax services limited documentation around sourcing and commitments.
In addition, the excluding tax services that could impair independence : provision of, or potential for breakdowns in process and controls is increased when access to, Ernst & Young publications, workshops, seminars and other company employees are focused on immediate response actions in an training materials: provision of reports from data gathered on non-financial emergency situation and working in uncertain conditions.
policies and information: and assistance with understanding non-financial As a result of the magnitude of this unprecedented event, and in regulatory requirements.
Additionally, any proposed service not included in order to separately disclose the financial impacts, new processes and the pre-approved services, must be approved in advance prior to related controls were established to identify and segregate costs, calculate commencement of the engagement.
The audit committee has delegated accruals and estimate provisions for future costs.
These included: to the chairman of the audit committee authority to approve permitted Establishing unique invoice-processing procedures and related controls services provided that the chairman reports any decisions to the committee to ensure appropriate accounting for costs.
at its next scheduled meeting.
Developing methodologies for estimating the various elements of The audit committee evaluates the performance of the auditors accruals and provisions and instituting related controls to validate each year.
The audit fees payable to Ernst & Young are reviewed by the assumptions and ensure adequate management review.
committee in the context of other global companies for cost effectiveness.
Creating period-end financial reporting processes and related controls, The committee keeps under review the scope and results of audit work including management and analytical review.
and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
External regulation Hiring additional resources to process and account for the significant and BP policy requires the auditors to rotate their lead audit partner every level of expenditure.
See Financial statements Note 17 on page 176 and Audit committee report on page 98 for details of audit fees.
Although the new controls are consistent with the companys established framework, they represent changes that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the companys internal control over financial reporting.
Despite the impact of this event, as stated above, management has concluded that the companys disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were effective as of 31 December 2010.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 107
