Business review Business review The function seeks to identify the best markets and prices for our crude oil, International businesses source optimal feedstocks for our refineries, and provide competitive Our IBs provide quality products and services to customers in more than supply for our marketing businesses.
In addition, where refinery production 70 countries worldwide with a significant focus on Europe, North America is surplus to marketing requirements or can be sourced more competitively, and Asia.
Our products include aviation fuels, lubricants, LPG and it is sold into the market.
Wherever possible, the group will look to optimize petrochemicals that are sold for use in the manufacture of a range of value across the supply chain.
For example, BP will often sell its own crude products, such as fabrics, fibres and various plastics.
We believe each of for its refineries where this will provide incremental margin.
these IBs is competitively advantaged in the markets in which we have Along with the supply activity described above, the function seeks chosen to participate.
Such advantage is derived from several factors, to create incremental trading opportunities.
It enters into the full range of including location, proximity of manufacturing assets to markets, physical exchange-traded commodity derivatives, over-the-counter OTC contracts asset quality, operational efficiency, technology advantage and the strength and spot and term contracts that are described in Certain definitions of our brands.
Each business has a clear strategy focused on investing in its commodity trading contracts, on page 82.
In order to facilitate the key assets and market positions in order to deliver value to its customers generation of trading margin from arbitrage, blending and storage and outperform its competitors.
opportunities, it also both owns and contracts for storage and transport In 2010, the IBs accounted for just under a quarter of the segments a capacity.
The group has developed a risk governance framework to manage operating capital employed and just over half of the replacement and oversee the financial risks associated with this trading activity, which is cost profit.
described in Financial statements Note 27 on pages 185-190.
Marketing sales in the international businesses include sales of global In 2010, the FVCs accounted for roughly three-quarters of the fuels and lubricants.
The following table sets out the detail by business.
a operating capital employed in Refining and Marketing and generated just thousand barrels per day under half of the replacement cost profit.
International businesses sales volumes 2010 2009 2008 Significant events in the FVCs in 2010 were as follows: Air BP 450 434 478 The Whiting refinery modernization project made significant progress in LPG 58 67 64 2010 as above ground construction began, including the reactors for the Lubricants 50 49 54 new gasoil hydrotreater, the new towers on the revamped crude distillation unit and the cokers six new drums.
Two third-party world- 558 550 596 scale hydrogen units were commissioned in 2010 and began providing hydrogen to the refinery.
Progress on important pipeline Lubricants interconnections completed in 2010 will allow Whiting early access to We manufacture and market lubricants and related products and services greater crude imports and product export opportunities.
to the automotive, industrial, marine and energy markets across the world.
In the US, BPs reputation suffered as a result of the oil spill in the Gulf We sell products direct to our customers in around 45 countries and use of Mexico, which had an adverse impact on our branded fuels approved local distributors for the remaining locations.
Customer focus, marketing, but this had recovered by year end.
We offered additional distinctive brands, superior technology and relationships remain the marketing support to our customers in an attempt to mitigate these cornerstones of our long-term strategy.
BP markets primarily through its major brands of Castrol and BP, In the Gulf of Mexico region, sales were down year on year by up to and also the Aral brand in some specific markets.
Castrol is a recognized 30% in some sites in the second quarter, but regained ground over the brand worldwide and we believe it provides us with a significant second half of 2010. competitive advantage.
In October, BP opened a cutting-edge fuels technology development In the automotive lubricants sector, we supply lubricants and other centre in South Africa, which will focus on quality assurance, technical related products and services to intermediate customers such as retailers service and marketing support for the local market.
These, in turn, serve end-consumers such as car, truck and The integrated supply and trading function within the FVCs announced motorcycle owners.
In 2010, roughly 30% of replacement cost profit that it was reorganizing its internal structure in order to simplify the before interest and tax was generated from emerging markets, which we organization and reduce costs.
believe continue to have the potential for significant long-term growth.
In October, BP sold its French retail business to Delek Europe B. V. BPs marine lubricants business is one of the largest global During 2010, BP also completed the divestment of several packages suppliers of lubricants to the marine industry, with global presence in over of non-strategic terminals and pipelines in the US East of Rockies and 800 ports.
BPs industrial lubricants business is a leading supplier to those West Coast.
This programme of divestment of non-strategic pipelines sectors of the market involved in the manufacture of automobiles, trucks, and terminals will continue during 2011. machinery components and steel.
BP is also a leading supplier of lubricants Following a strategic review of our businesses in southern Africa, we for the offshore oil and aviation industries.
intend to focus our activities within the continent on South Africa and Mozambique.
As a result, BP agreed to sell its fuels marketing Petrochemicals businesses in Namibia, Zambia and Botswana to Puma Energy and in We manufacture and market four main product lines: purified terephthalic addition, BP intends to sell its 50% interest in BP Malawi and BP acid PTA, paraxylene PX, acetic acid, and olefins and derivatives O&D.
The sale of BP Tanzania to Puma Energy is Our strategy is to leverage our industry-leading technology in selected subject to the pre-emption rights of its co-shareholders.
Only the sale markets, to grow the business and to deliver industry-leading returns.
New of the Botswana business had been completed as at 31 December investments are targeted principally in the higher-growth Asian markets.
2010, the other sales are expected to be completed in 2011.
PTA is a raw material used in the manufacture of polyesters used in During 2010 BP completed the sale of a number of European terminals fibres, textiles and film, and polyethylene terephthalate PET bottles.
Acetic as part of ongoing asset optimization activities.
acid is a versatile intermediate chemical used in a variety of products such as paints, adhesives and solvents, as well as its use in the production of a Operating capital employed is total assets excluding goodwill less total liabilities, excluding finance PTA.
We have a strong global market share in the PTA and acetic acid debt and current and deferred taxation.
markets, with a major manufacturing presence in Asia, particularly China.
PX is a feedstock for PTA production.
We also produce a number of other speciality petrochemicals products.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 59 Business review In O&D, we crack naphtha to produce ethylene and other products and We have a total of 18 manufacturing sites operating in the UK, the US, derivatives.
Our SECCO joint venture between BP, Sinopec and its Belgium, Germany, China, Indonesia, South Korea, Malaysia and Taiwan, subsidiary, Shanghai Petrochemical Company, is the largest olefins cracker including our joint ventures.
in China and is BPs single largest investment in China.
BP also co-owns one other naphtha cracker site outside of Asia, which is integrated with our Gelsenkirchen refinery in Germany.
The following table summarizes BPs petrochemicals production capacity, at 31 December 2010. a b Petrochemicals production capacity BP share of capacity Group interest thousand tonnes Geographical area Site Product % per year US Cooper River Purified terephthalic acid PTA 100.0 1,342 Decatur PTA 100.0 1,043 Paraxylene PX 100.0 1,101 Naphthalene dicarboxylate 100.0 29 c Texas City Acetic acid 100.0 583 PX 100.0 1,271 Metaxylene 100.0 123 5,492 Europe UK Hull Acetic acid 100.0 532 Acetic anhydride 100.0 153 Ethylidene diacetate 100.0 4 Belgium Geel PTA 100.0 1,343 PX 100.0 631 b d Germany Gelsenkirchen Olefins and derivatives 50.0 to 61.0 1,764 b Mlheim Solvents 50.0 130 4,557 Rest of World b China Caojing Olefins and derivatives 50.0 3,103 b Chongqing Acetic acid 51.0 215 b Esters 51.0 52 b Nanjing Acetic acid 50.0 274 e Zhuhai PTA 85.0 1,549 b Indonesia Merak PTA 50.0 253 b Korea Ulsan Acetic acid 51.0 261 b Vinyl acetate monomer 34.0 56 b Malaysia Kertih Acetic acid 70.0 391 Kuantan PTA 100.0 610 b Taiwan Kaohsiung PTA 61.4 847 b Taichung PTA 61.4 471 b Mai Liao Acetic acid 50.0 179 8,261 Total BP share of capacity at 31 December 2010 18,310 a Petrochemicals production capacity is the proven maximum sustainable daily rate msdr multiplied by the number of days in the respective period, where msdr is the highest average daily rate ever achieved over a sustained period.
b Includes BP share of equity-accounted entities, as indicated.
c Sterling Chemicals plant, 100% of the output of which is marketed by BP.
d Group interest varies by product.
e BP Zhuhai Chemical Company Ltd is a subsidiary of BP, the capacity of which is shown above at 100%.
Global fuels consumer offers in established markets, developed opportunities in growth The supply of aviation fuels and LPG is managed globally in the global markets and pursued new demand such as the German Autogas market.
Air BP is one of the worlds largest and best known aviation fuels Significant events in 2010 were: suppliers, serving many of the major commercial airlines, as well as the Castrol was a sponsor of the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa general aviation and military sectors.
and used this to deliver a significant programme of brand visibility and We have annual marketing sales in excess of 400mb d. Air BPs customer engagement.
Castrol leveraged the sponsorship to support strategic aim is to grow its position in the core locations of Europe, the US, our businesses in all regions.
We have seen increased brand awareness Australasia and the Middle East, while focusing its portfolio towards for our Castrol master brand and product brands.
airports that offer long-term competitive advantage.
In July 2010, Castrol opened a new lubricants technology development The LPG business sells bulk, bottled, automotive and wholesale centre in China.
Employing scientists and engineers from China and LPG products in 10 countries, with annual sales in excess of 50 thousand abroad, this team will work collaboratively with vehicle manufacturers, barrels per day.
During the past few years, we have introduced new distributors and other partners, focusing on cutting-edge lubricant 60 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
