Business review Key statistics Gulf of Mexico oil spill 2010 Total pre-tax cost recognized in income statement $ million 40,935 Incident summary Total cash flow expended pre-tax $ million 17,658 On 20 April 2010, following a well blowout in the Gulf of Mexico, an Total payments from $20-billion trust fund $ million 3,023 explosion and fire occurred on the semi-submersible rig Deepwater Horizon and on 22 April the vessel sank.
Tragically, 11 people lost their lives and 17 a Total number of claimants to GCCF 468,869 others were injured.
Hydrocarbons continued to flow from the reservoir Number of people deployed at peak approximately 48,000 and up through the casing and the blowout preventer BOP for 87 days, Number of active response vessels deployed during the causing a very significant oil spill.
response approximately 6,500 The Deepwater Horizon rig was operated by Transocean Holdings Barrels of oil collected or flared approximately 827,000 LLC and was drilling the Macondo exploration well.
The well forms part of Barrels of oily liquid skimmed from surface of sea the Mississippi Canyon Block 252 MC252 lease, in respect of which BP approximately 828,000 Exploration & Production Inc. was the named party and operator with a Barrels of oil removed through surface burns UAC estimate 265,450 65% working interest.
The well was in a water depth of 5,000 feet and a 43 nautical miles from shore.
Gulf Coast Claims Facility GCCF.
BP tackled the leak at its source in multiple, parallel ways, which over time included: attempting to fit caps on the well, using containment systems to pipe oil to vessels on the surface, sealing the well through a Gulf Coast Restoration Organization GCRO static-kill procedure and drilling relief wells.
BP recognized early in the Following the accident, BP established a separate organizational unit the incident that drilling relief wells constituted the ultimate means to seal and Gulf Coast Restoration Organization GCRO to provide the necessary isolate the well permanently and stop the flow of oil and gas.
Two relief leadership and dedicated resources to facilitate BPs fulfilment of its wells were drilled, the first of which was started on 2 May: the second was clean-up responsibilities and to support the long-term effort to restore the started on 16 May as a contingency.
The GCRO addresses all aspects of the response, including: On 15 July, BP successfully shut in the Macondo well and then executing our ongoing clean-up operations and all associated remediation commenced a static-kill procedure.
On 9 August, BP confirmed that the activities: coordinating with government officials: keeping the public casing had been successfully sealed with cement.
On 16 September, the informed: and implementing the $20-billion Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill first relief well intercepted the annulus of the Macondo well.
After Trust established to meet certain of our financial obligations.
At the end of completing cementing operations on 19 September, BP, the federal 2010, the GCRO had a permanent staff of 100 employees and about 5,900 government scientific team and the National Incident Commander contractors including the Gulf Coast incident management team.
The concluded that the well-kill operations had successfully sealed the annulus.
majority of the clean-up, maintenance and monitoring is being carried out BP then began the abandonment of the Macondo well, which by contract staff.
Since inception, many other BP staff and contractors have included removing portions of the casing and setting cement plugs.
This been, and will continue to be, temporarily seconded to assist the work was completed on 8 November.
In parallel, operations to plug and permanent team and to provide additional resources or specialist skills abandon P&A the relief well that intercepted the Macondo well also took where required.
place and were completed on 30 September.
P&A of the second relief well is in progress and is expected to complete in early March 2011.
All Our response response activities at the Macondo site with the exception of the final BP immediately took responsibility for responding to the incident, taking seabed survey and seismic sweep, which are scheduled to take place at steps to remedy the harm that the spill caused to the Gulf of Mexico, the the end of first quarter in 2011, were completed on 8 January with the Gulf coast environment, and the livelihoods of the people in the region.
The recovery of the buoy and anchor system for the free-standing riser.
US government formed a Unified Area Command UAC to link the The group income statement for the year ended 31 December 2010 organizations responding to the incident and provide a forum for those includes a pre-tax charge of $40.9 billion in relation to the Gulf of Mexico oil organizations to make co-ordinated decisions.
If consensus could not be spill.
See Financial consequences on page 38 and Financial statements reached on a particular matter, the Federal On-Scene Coordinator FOSC Note 2 on page 158 for more details.
made the final decision on response-related actions.
BPs comprehensive response focused on three strategic fronts: stopping the flow of hydrocarbons at the source: working to capture, contain and remove oil offshore and near the shore: and cleaning and restoring impacted shorelines and beaches along the Gulf coast.
Initially BP mobilized a fleet of 30 vessels and over a million feet of protective boom.
Thereafter the scale of activity grew rapidly, and at its peak included more than 6,500 vessels, more than 13 million feet of boom and almost 48,000 personnel.
BP also formed an investigation team charged with gathering the facts surrounding the accident, analysing available information to identify possible causes and making recommendations that would help prevent similar accidents in the future.
The team concluded that no single action or inaction caused this accident.
Rather, a complex and interlinked series of mechanical failures, human judgments, engineering design, operational implementation and team interfaces came together to allow the accident.
Multiple companies, work teams and circumstances were involved over time.
See Internal investigation and report on page 37 for further information on the investigation and its findings.
34 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review Subsea During the latter stages of the response, work commenced to restore and Subsea intervention activities were initiated by BP immediately following decontaminate the many vessels involved in the incident.
This is largely the explosion.
Initial attempts to stop the flow of oil focused on attempting complete, with the remaining 25 vessels expected to be completed by the to actuate the failed BOP with remotely operated vehicles ROVs.
At the end of April 2011. same time, planning also began for two relief wells.
Attempts to stop the The only outstanding work associated with the Macondo site is the flow of oil by activating the various components of the BOP continued until seabed and seismic surveys of the area.
In consideration of, and subject to, 5 May, while plans and tools for potential containment options were being the weather conditions, it is anticipated that the seabed and seismic developed in parallel.
surveys will take place at the end of first quarter of 2011.
From 5 May BP attempted to contain the flow of oil using a number of different strategies.
Firstly, one of the three leak points was plugged Shoreline and surface with the installation of a drill pipe overshot and pack-off device, reducing The priorities for the shoreline and surface response were removing oil the complexity of the seabed situation.
Following a failed attempt to from the surface of the Gulf, preventing oil from reaching the shoreline and contain the flow of oil using a containment dome, a riser insert tube tool cleaning up any oil that did reach the shores.
The response strategy was successfully deployed in the end of the riser on 16 May.
This allowed included aerial surveillance to understand where concentrations of oil were roughly 3,000 barrels of oil per day b d to be captured and returned to the located, mechanical skimming, controlled surface burning, application of surface for processing on the drillship Discoverer Enterprise.
An attempt dispersants, and multiple in-water and onshore booming techniques.
was also made to top kill the well by pumping heavy drilling mud into the Onshore, multiple techniques for cleaning and removing oil from marshes, well at high rates but this effort was unsuccessful.
By shearing and wetlands, and beaches were deployed.
BP worked with local organizations removing a damaged section of riser from the lower marine riser package to refine existing area contingency plans to enable the most effective LMRP on top of the BOP stack, it was possible to attach a new response to the spill.
containment system sometimes referred to as a top hat.
This system Extensive surface skimming activities took place, ranging from allowed for up to 15,000b d of oil to be produced through this non-sealing large-scale offshore skimmers to inland and shallow water equipment.
The LMRP cap via a riser to the Discoverer Enterprise for processing.
UAC also leveraged its Vessels of Opportunity VoO programme to assist Containment capacity was eventually enhanced to over 40,000b d of oil.
In with this and to support the fish and wildlife, Shoreline Clean-up total, approximately 827,000 barrels of crude oil were recovered using the Assessment Team SCAT, and Rapid Assessment Team.
On 10 July, the top-hat containment cap was Controlled in situ burning of oil on the surface of the water was removed from the LMRP to allow the installation of a three-ram capping conducted where concentrations of oil with suitable characteristics could stack, which was completed on 12 July.
Approximately 400 controlled burns were performed, which The flow of oil into the Gulf of Mexico was finally stopped on in total removed an estimated 265,450 barrels of oil according to the UAC.
After verifying integrity of the capping stack, a static-kill procedure Chemical dispersants were deployed under the close supervision of was executed.
Following a series of tests and the pumping of heavy drilling the UAC.
Dispersants are mixtures of solvents, surfactants and other mud, static conditions were achieved in the Macondo well on 3 August and additives that break up the surface tension of an oil slick or sheen and cement was pumped in two days later.
On 2 September, after a successful make oil more soluble in water.
On the surface, dispersants help break oil test of the cement plug, the capping stack was removed from the top of down into microscopic droplets that can be dispersed through the the BOP.
seawater and more easily degraded by oil-eating bacteria.
Subsea On 3 September, the BOP was removed from the Macondo application of dispersants was used to break the oil into small particles that wellhead to be replaced by the BOP stack from the Development Driller II.
disperse throughout the water column, forming a more dilute oil-and-water The Deepwater Horizon BOP was subsequently recovered to surface, solution that degrades more easily.
preserved and shipped to the NASA Michoud Facility in Louisiana for BP worked closely with state and local officials, seeking to prevent examination by the US government and other parties.
The effort involved significant deployment of boom.
BP Progress on the two relief wells continued in parallel with the worked closely with experts from the US Coast Guard, the US Fish & containment operations outlined above.
The first relief well was delayed on Wildlife Service, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration several occasions due to adverse weather and while critical testing and NOAA, the National Park Service, as well as state agencies to identify the operations were conducted on the Macondo well.
On 16 September, the most sensitive wildlife habitats and prioritize appropriate spill first relief well successfully intersected the Macondo wellbore.
These measures included booming wildlife refuges and 19 September, after cementing operations on the relief well were using methods to deter wildlife from entering oiled areas.
BP also complete, the Macondo well was officially declared killed.
established animal treatment facilities, with significant capacity to treat The P&A of the first relief well was completed by the Development birds, mammals and turtles.
Driller III rig on 30 September.
P&A of the Macondo well was concluded on 8 November by the Development Driller II, and the P&A of the second relief well is in progress and is expected to complete in early March 2011.
Work to recover and secure the subsea infrastructure used for the various containment systems commenced following completion of the Macondo well P&A programme and was completed on 8 January 2011.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 35 Business review Once oiling of the shoreline had occurred, SCATs assessed the damage Claims process and trust fund and developed clean-up methods for each type and area of impact, BP initially established a claims process in accordance with the including treatment plans designed to optimize oil removal with minimal requirements of the Oil Pollution Act 1990 OPA 90, allowing claimants intrusion and impact to the marsh.
Thousands of personnel organized into to make a claim against BP as one of the designated responsible parties.
operating teams were mobilized for the clean-up efforts.
BP has endeavoured to promptly pay all legitimate claims including those Beach-cleaning operations were undertaken in collaboration with from individuals, businesses and government entities.
BP paid $399 million residents from the highest impacted communities, with almost 11,000 in claim payments to individuals and businesses before 23 August 2010, community responders being trained in beach clean-up efforts.
when the administration of these claims was transferred to the Gulf Coast Throughout this response, BP met with local officials and Claims Facility GCCF headed by Kenneth Feinberg.
Mr Feinberg was organized town halls and information sessions in the coastal communities.
jointly appointed by BP and the President of the United States to manage As the response continued, BP opened community outreach and claims the GCCF.
According to GCCF statistics, as of 31 December 2010, 468,869 centres in each of the coastal counties and established telephone call lines claimants had submitted claims and $2,776 million in payments had been for all activities.
BP continues to evaluate and pay claims from government entities.
BP has committed to pay all legitimate claims to individuals, State and local government entities, as at 31 December 2010, had received businesses and governments and to establish a $20-billion trust fund, $550 million through the trust fund see below and BP directly to cover following consultation with the US government.
As part of the US Natural claims and response and removal advances and payments.
Resource Damage Assessment NRDA process, BP is working with In support of the settlement of claims BP established the federal and state trustees to identify wildlife and habitats that may have Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust Trust, and committed $20 billion to the been injured: to restore the environment back to an objective baseline Trust over a period of three-and-a-half years.
While funds are building, BP condition: to restore access to and use of the natural resources: and to has secured its commitments to the Trust by granting, conveying, and or compensate for losses caused by the incident.
Finally, BP has provided assigning to the Trust first priority perfected security interests in production long-term funding for response projects, research and community support payments pertaining to certain Gulf of Mexico oil and natural gas programmes as part of our long-term commitment to the Gulf.
During 2010, BP made payments to the Trust totalling $5 billion The Food and Drug Administration FDA, the NOAA, and state and is committed to making additional payments of $1.25 billion, in one or agencies also conducted fisheries testing and monitoring throughout the more instalments, during and prior to the end of each calendar quarter response.
These testing and monitoring programmes included smell and commencing with the first calendar quarter of 2011 and continuing until edible tissue tests for oil detection.
Approximately 89,000 square miles of the last calendar quarter of 2013.
The trust fund is available to satisfy federal fisheries were closed at the peak of the response: as of 1 February legitimate individual and business claims administered by the GCCF, state 2011, 99.6% of federal fisheries were open to fishing.
To date, BP has and local government claims resolved by BP, final judgments and committed $127 million for ongoing monitoring, marketing, and tourism settlements, state and local response costs, and natural resource damages support in the Gulf States.
Fines and penalties will be paid separately and not from the Trust.
Payments from the Trust are made as costs are finally determined Restoration, research and other donations or claims are adjudicated, whether by the GCCF, or by a court, or as agreed In conjunction with the Gulf of Mexico Alliance a partnership of the states by BP.
The GCCF evaluates all individual and business OPA 90 claims, of Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas with the goal of excluding all government claims.
The establishment of this Trust does not significantly increasing regional collaboration to enhance the ecological and represent a cap or floor on BPs liabilities, and BP does not admit to a economic health of the Gulf of Mexico, we have established the Gulf of liability of any amount in the Trust.
The Trust agreement provides for the Mexico Research Initiative GRI providing $500 million to study and monitor term of the Trust to continue until 30 April 2016, subject to the right of the the spills potential long-term impacts on the environment and local public Individual Trustees to extend or expedite this expiry date under certain health.
Specifically, the 10-year programme will examine the spread and circumstances.
Any amounts left in the Trust once all legitimate claims fate of the oil and other contaminants, the degree of biodegradation, have been resolved and paid will revert to BP.
See Financial statements effects of the spill on local ecosystems, and detection, clean-up and Note 2 on page 158, Note 37 on page 199 and Note 44 on page 218 for mitigation technology.
While the details of the programme were being further information on the Trust and on contingent liabilities arising developed, BP awarded a series of fast-track grants to five research groups, from the incident.
See Proceedings and investigations relating to the Gulf totalling $40 million.
BP and the Gulf of Mexico Alliance appointed an equal of Mexico oil spill on pages 130-131 for information on legal proceedings.
number of research scientists to the governing board of the GRI and, in December, the GRI held its first meeting.
BP has now contributed a total of $260 million under its agreement to fund the $360-million cost of six berms in the Louisiana barrier islands project.
BP has established a $100-million charitable fund to support unemployed rig workers experiencing economic hardship as a result of the moratorium on deepwater drilling imposed by the US federal government.
The Rig Worker Assistance Fund will be administered through the Gulf Coast Restoration and Protection Foundation, a supporting organization of The Baton Rouge Area Foundation.
In line with BPs previous commitment to donate its share of the revenue net of royalties and transportation costs from the sale of recovered oil to the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation NFWF, total donations to date have amounted to $22 million.
36 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review Internal investigation and report Procedures and engineering technical practices BPs investigation found that no single factor caused the Macondo well Update and clarify current practices to ensure that a clear and tragedy: rather, it concluded that decisions made by multiple companies comprehensive set of cementing guidelines and associated Engineering and work teams contributed to the accident which arose from a complex Technical Practices ETPs are available as controlled standards.
and interlinked series of mechanical failures, human judgments, Review and update requirements for subsea BOP configuration.
engineering design, operational implementation and team interfaces.
Update the relevant technical practices to incorporate certain improved The report based on a four-month investigation led by BPs head design requirements for subsea wellheads.
of Safety and Operations and conducted independently by a team of over Review and update ETPs regarding negative-pressure testing.
50 technical and other specialists drawn from inside BP and externally Clarify and strengthen standards for well-control and well-integrity found that: incident reporting and investigation.
The annulus cement barrier and in particular the cement slurry that Propose to the American Petroleum Institute the development of a was used at the bottom of the Macondo well failed to contain recommended practice for design and testing of foam cement slurries hydrocarbons within the reservoir, as it was designed to do.
The in high-pressure, high-temperature applications.
annulus cement probably experienced nitrogen breakout and migration, Review and assess the consistency, rigour and effectiveness of the allowing gas and liquids to enter the wellbore annulus.
The investigation current risk management and management of change processes team concluded that there were weaknesses in cement design and practised by Drilling and Completions D&C.
testing, quality assurance and risk assessment.
The shoe track barriers at the bottom of the Macondo well failed to Capability and competency contain hydrocarbons as they were designed to do, allowing Reassess and strengthen the current technical authoritys role in the hydrocarbons to flow up the production casing.
The shoe track barriers areas of cementing and zonal isolation.
consisted of two barriers in the shoe track: the cement in the shoe Enhance D&C competency programmes to deepen the capabilities of track and the float collar.
BPs investigation team identified a number of personnel in key operational and leadership positions and augment potential failure modes that could explain how both the shoe track existing knowledge and proficiency in managing deepwater drilling cement and the float collar allowed hydrocarbon ingress into the and wells.
production casing, but has not determined which of these failure Develop an advanced deepwater well-control training programme that modes occurred.
supplements current industry and regulatory training and embeds The results of the negative pressure test were incorrectly accepted by lessons learned from the Gulf of Mexico incident.
BP and Transocean, although well integrity had not been established.
Establish BPs in-house expertise in the areas of subsea BOPs and BOP Over a 40-minute period, the Transocean rig crew failed to recognize control systems through the creation of a central expert team, including and act on the influx of hydrocarbons into the well until the a defined segment engineering technical authority role to provide hydrocarbons had passed through the BOP and into the riser and were independent assurance of the integrity of drilling contractors BOPs and rapidly flowing to the surface.
Well control response actions failed to regain control of the well.
The Request that the International Association of Drilling Contractors review first well control actions were to close the BOP and diverter, routing and consider the need to develop a programme for formal subsea the fluids exiting the riser to a mud gas separator rather than to the engineering certification of personnel who are responsible for the overboard diverter line.
If fluids had been diverted overboard, rather maintenance and modification of deepwater BOPs and control systems.
than to the mud gas separator, there may have been more time to respond, and the consequences of the accident may have Audit and verification been reduced.
Strengthen BPs rig audit process to improve the closure and Diversion of the hydrocarbons to the mud gas separator resulted in gas verification of audit findings and actions across BP-owned and venting onto the rig.
The design of the mud gas separator system BP-contracted drilling rigs.
allowed diversion of the riser contents to the mud gas separator vessel although the well was in a high-flow condition.
This overwhelmed the Process safety performance management mud gas separator system, resulting in gas venting onto the rig.
This Establish D&C leading and lagging indicators for well integrity, well increased the potential for the gas to reach an ignition source.
control and rig safety critical equipment.
The flow of gas into the engine rooms through the ventilation system Require drilling contractors to implement an auditable integrity created a potential for ignition that the rigs fire and gas system did monitoring system to continuously assess and improve the integrity not prevent.
performance of well-control equipment against a set of established Even after the explosion and fire had disabled its crew-operated leading and lagging indicators.
controls, the rigs BOP on the seabed should have activated automatically to seal the well.
But it failed to operate, probably because Cementing services assurance critical components were not working.
Through a review of rig audit Conduct an immediate review of the quality of the services provided by findings and maintenance records, the investigation team found all cementing service providers.
Confirm that adequate oversight and indications of potential weaknesses in the testing regime and controls are in place within the service providers organization and BP.
maintenance management system for the BOP.
Well-control practices The investigation team developed a series of recommendations based on Assess and confirm that essential well-control and well-monitoring the above findings.
These recommendations cover contractor oversight and practices, such as well monitoring and shut-in procedures, are clearly assurance, risk assessment, well monitoring and well-control practices, defined and rigorously applied on all BP-owned and BP-contracted integrity testing practices and BOP system maintenance.
The report makes offshore rigs.
the following recommendations, among others: BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 37 Business review Rig process safety Given the emerging consensus that the Gulf of Mexico accident was the Require hazard and operability reviews of the surface gas and drilling result of multiple causes involving multiple parties, we support the National fluid systems for all BP-owned and BP-contracted drilling rigs.
Commissions efforts to strengthen industry-wide safety practices.
We are Include in the hazard and operability reviews a study of all surface committed to working with government officials and other operators and system hydrocarbon vents, reviewing suitability of location and design.
contractors to identify and implement operational and regulatory changes that will enhance safety practices throughout the oil and gas industry.
Blowout preventer design and assurance Even prior to the conclusion of the National Commissions investigation, Establish minimum levels of redundancy and reliability for BPs BOP BP instituted changes designed to further strengthen safety and risk systems.
Require drilling contractors to implement an auditable risk management.
These changes include the creation of an enhanced Safety management process to ensure that their BOP systems are operated and Operational Risk function, reporting directly to group chief executive above these minimum levels.
Bob Dudley, that maintains an independent view of the implementation of Strengthen BPs minimum requirements for drilling contractors BOP internal and external requirements and of safety and operational risks.
On 17 February 2011, the Commissions Chief Counsel published a Strengthen BPs minimum requirements for drilling contractors BOP separate report on his investigation about the causes of the incident.
Chief Counsels investigation concluded that the blowout resulted from a Define BPs minimum requirements for drilling contractors series of engineering and management mistakes by the companies management of changes for subsea BOPs.
involved in the incident, including BP, Halliburton and Transocean.
Develop a clear plan for remotely operated vehicle intervention as part of the emergency BOP operations in each of BPs operating regions, Consequences of the accident for BP and its shareholders including all emergency options for shearing pipe and sealing the Financial consequences wellbore.
The group income statement for 2010 includes a pre-tax charge of Require drilling contractors to implement a qualification process to $40.9 billion in relation to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
This comprises costs verify that shearing performance capability of blind shear rams is incurred up to 31 December 2010, estimated obligations for future costs compatible with the inherent variations in wall thickness, material that can be estimated reliably at this time, and rights and obligations strength and toughness of the rig drill pipe inventory.
relating to the trust fund, described below.
Include testing and verification of these BOP recommendations in the Costs incurred during the year mainly related to oil spill response rig audit process.
activities, which included the drilling of relief wells and other subsea interventions, surface response activities including numerous vessels, National Commission report and shoreline response involving deployment of boom and beach BP has co-operated fully with the National Commission on the BP cleaning activities.
Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling National Commission, Under US law BP is required to compensate individuals, which released the full report of its investigation on 11 January 2011.
The businesses, government entities and others who have been impacted by National Commission acknowledged the complexities and risks inherent the oil spill.
Individual and business claims are administered by the GCCF, to deepwater energy exploration and production: it also concluded that which is separate from BP.
BP has established a trust fund of $20 billion to neither industry nor government was fully prepared to assess or manage be funded over the period to the fourth quarter of 2013, which is available those risks.
The National Commission identified certain missteps and to satisfy legitimate individual and business claims administered by the oversights by individuals at BP, Transocean and Halliburton that led to the GCCF, state and local government claims resolved by BP, final judgments blowout and concluded that its root cause involved systemic management and settlements, state and local response costs, and natural resource failures in the industry.
These management issues, the National damages and related costs arising as a consequence of the Gulf of Mexico Commission found, extended beyond BP to contractors that serve the oil spill.
In 2010, BP contributed $5 billion to the fund, and further quarterly entire industry.
This included BPs failure to adequately address risks contributions of $1.25 billion are to be made during the period 2011 to created by late changes to well design and procedures, inadequate testing 2013.
The income statement charge for 2010 includes $20 billion in relation of the Macondo cement slurry by BP and Halliburton, inadequate to the trust fund, adjusted to take account of the time value of money.
The communication between BP, Halliburton and Transocean, inadequate establishment of the trust fund does not represent a cap or floor on BPs communication between Transocean and its crew, and inadequate liabilities and BP does not admit to a liability of this amount.
decision-making processes at the Macondo well.
The National BP has provided for all liabilities that can be estimated reliably at this Commission also found regulatory failures to be a contributing factor to time, including fines and penalties under the Clean Water Act CWA.
The the Macondo tragedy, in particular the lack of administrative resources total amounts that will ultimately be paid by BP in relation to all obligations and technical expertise at the Minerals Management Service.
relating to the incident are subject to significant uncertainty.
The National Commissions report made a number of BP considers that it is not possible to estimate reliably any recommendations in nine distinct areas for addressing the causes and obligation in relation to natural resource damages claims under the OPA 90, consequences of the spill, including principally the following: improving the litigation and fines and penalties except for those in relation to the CWA.
safety of offshore operations by enhancing the governments role and by These items are therefore contingent liabilities.
establishing an industry-run, private-sector oversight entity: safeguarding BP holds a 65% interest in the Macondo well, with the remaining the environment by increasing support for environmental science and 35% held by two joint venture partners.
While BP believes and will regulatory review related to Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas activities: assert that it has a contractual right to recover the partners shares of strengthening spill response planning and capacity: advancing wellthe costs incurred, no recovery amounts have been recognized in the containment capabilities by increasing government expertise and requiring financial statements.
enhanced containment plans by operators: dedicating funding by the For a full understanding of the impacts and uncertainties relating to US Congress to Gulf restoration: ensuring financial responsibility by raising the Gulf of Mexico oil spill refer to Financial statements Note 2 on the $75-million liability cap for offshore facility accidents: promoting page 158, Note 37 on page 199 and Note 44 on page 218.
See also Risk Congressional awareness of the risks of offshore drilling: and developing factors on page 27 and Proceedings and investigations relating to the Gulf expertise and research programmes devoted to exploration and spill of Mexico oil spill on pages 130-131. containment in the Arctic.
38 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review Share price and dividend consequences As a result of the incident, BPs board reviewed its dividend policy and decided that no ordinary share dividends would be paid in respect of the first, second and third quarters of 2010.
Furthermore, the BP share price suffered a significant fall on the London Stock Exchange, from 655 pence per share on the day of the incident to reach a trading low point of 296 pence per share on 25 June 2010.
Although there has since been some recovery in the share price, at 493 pence per share on 18 February 2011, it remained considerably below its level immediately before the incident.
See Share prices and listings on page 134 for further information on the performance of BPs share price.
Other consequences BPs reputation has been damaged by the incident.
For further information, see Risk factors on pages 27-32.
BPs long-term commitment to the Gulf of Mexico region The Gulf of Mexico incident has had a profound impact on the people and economy of the Gulf coast as well as the offshore energy industry and BP.
From the beginning, BP has worked tirelessly to address the economic and environmental impact of the spill and has a dedicated team working closely with local and state officials to ensure that government claims are paid in a fair and expeditious manner.
BP has also provided funding to promote tourism and seafood safety two cornerstones of the Gulf coast economy and has worked closely with state and local leaders to restore the economic health of the region.
We recognize that environmental and economic restoration means more than just cleaning up the oil and paying for losses experienced across the Gulf coast.
We intend to ensure that the long-term impacts of the oil spill are understood and remediated.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 39
