Business review Crude oil and gas prices, and refining margins Our market $ per barrel of oil equivalent 150 Energy markets in 2010 continued to recover from Dated Brent oil price Henry Hub gas price First of Month Index b the impact of the global economic recession.
Global indicator refining margin GIM Looking ahead, the long-term outlook is one of 120 a growing demand for energy, particularly in Asia, and of challenges for the industry in meeting this 90 demand.
Rising incomes and expanding urban populations are expected to drive demand, while the evolution towards a lower-carbon economy will 60 require technology, innovation and investment.
World oil consumption rebounded in 2010, with continued robust growth in 30 China and other non-OECD countries and the first increase among OECD countries since 2005.
Average crude oil prices in 2010 were higher than in the previous year.
Average natural gas prices also increased in 2010.
Refining margins stabilized as oil product demand recovered.
Economic context The world economy continued to recover in 2010.
We expect slower global growth in 2011, led by emerging economies, with developed countries Crude oil prices lagging behind because of the need to deal with their internal imbalances.
Dated Brent for the year averaged $79.50 per barrel, about 29% above Energy demand, and in particular oil demand, follows this overall economic 2009s average of $61.67 per barrel.
Prices traded in a relatively narrow pattern, recovering strongly in 2010 but facing more challenging conditions band of $70-80 per barrel for most of the year before rising in the fourth as we move into 2011, especially in OECD markets.
Prices exceeded $90 per barrel in December, the highest level Concerns about the volatility of commodity and financial markets, since October 2008. combined with renewed focus on climate change and the early experiences Global oil consumption rebounded sharply, reflecting a recovery in with efforts to reduce CO emissions in the EU and elsewhere, have led to 2 the global economy and several one-time factors, rising by roughly an increased focus on the appropriate role for markets, government c 2.8 million b d for the year 3.3%, the largest annual increase since 2004. oversight and other policy measures relating to the supply and Growth was broadly-based, with the largest volumetric increases seen in consumption of energy.
We expect regulation and taxation of the energy China and the US.
The relative stability in crude oil prices for much of the industry and energy users to increase in many areas over the short to year reflected the stability of OPEC crude oil supply, as OPEC members medium term.
sustained the production cuts implemented in late 2008 throughout 2010, with crude production averaging roughly 2 million b d below the 2008 level.
Commercial oil inventories in the OECD remained high for much of the year before falling as the global supply-balance began to tighten and prices began to rise later in the year.
The rebound in oil prices in 2010 followed a decline in 2009 the first since 2001.
Global oil consumption in 2009 reflected the economic d slowdown, falling by roughly 1.2 million b d for the year 1.7%, the largest annual decline since 1982.
The biggest reductions were early in the year, with OECD countries accounting for the entire global decline.
Crude oil prices rose sharply in the second quarter in response to sustained OPEC production cuts and emerging signs of stabilization in the world economy, despite very high commercial oil inventories in the OECD.
OPEC members e cut crude oil production by roughly 2.5 million b d in 2009.
We expect oil price movements in 2011 to continue to be driven by the pace of global economic growth and its resulting implications for oil consumption, and by OPEC production decisions.
a BP Energy Outlook 2030. b See footnote e on page 56. c Oil Market Report 10 February 2011 OECD IEA 2011, page 4, first paragraph.
d BP Statistical Review of World Energy June 2010. e Oil Market Report 10 February 2011 OECD IEA 2011, Table 1, page 59.
16 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review Natural gas prices Refining margins Natural gas prices strengthened in 2010, but were volatile.
The average US Refining margins were slightly higher in 2010 as demand for oil products Henry Hub First of Month Index rose to $4.39 mmBtu, a 10% increase on recovered strongly in line with the economic bounce-back from recession.
Globally, oil demand grew at the fastest rate since 2004.
New refining Gas consumption recovered across the world along with the capacity continued to commission, but the strong demand recovery meant economy.
In the US, a cold start in 2010, followed by a hot summer and that unused refining capacity fell for the first time since 2005.
The BP global a low temperatures towards the end of the year also contributed to demand indicator refining margin GIM averaged $4.44 per barrel, up 44 cents per strength.
Yet domestic production growth of shale gas in particular barrel compared with 2009. continued apace and limited price rises.
Henry Hub gas prices stayed Margins in the Far East improved the most but continued to below coal parity in US power generation from the summer, leading to the struggle averaging $1.63 per barrel in Singapore as new refining capacity displacement of coal by gas.
The differentials of production area prices to continued to be added in the region.
Margins also rose in both the Henry Hub prices continued to narrow as pipeline bottlenecks were North West Europe and the Mediterranean but European margins reduced.
In Europe, spot gas prices at the UK National Balancing Point overall remained well below 2008 levels.
Margins in the US were increased by 38% to an average of 42.45 pence per therm for 2010.
Yet relatively unchanged, up slightly on the West and Gulf coasts but down plentiful global LNG supply kept spot gas prices below oil-indexed contract in the Midwest.
levels for most of the year, causing competition with contract pipeline Refining margins fell sharply in 2009 as demand for oil products supplies and marginal European gas production.
UK spot gas prices only collapsed in the wake of the global economic recession and as new refining attained contract price levels in December as cold weather caused rapid capacity came onstream.
The premium for light products above fuel oils inventory draw-downs.
reduced as demand for transport fuels fell along with the reduction in The rise in prices followed sharp declines in 2009.
The recession economic activity, compressing margins even for fully upgraded refineries.
and strong production had caused the average Henry Hub First of Month Looking ahead, refiners are likely to continue to operate with excess Index to fall in 2009 by 56% to $3.99 mmBtu the lowest level since 2002. capacity globally, although near-term supply-demand fundamentals appear In the UK, National Balancing Point prices averaged 30.85 pence per therm broadly in balance.
From 2011, we will be reporting a new refining indicator 47% below the record prices of 58.12 pence per therm in 2008. margin, replacing the GIM, which we call the refining marker margin In 2011, we expect gas markets to continue to be driven by the RMM.
This adopts a basis that we believe is more closely related to the economy, weather, domestic production trends and significant growth of approach used by many of our competitors.
See Refining and Marketing global LNG supply.
on page 55 for further information on RMM.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 17 Business review Non-OECD economies drive consumption growth billion tonnes of oil equivalent Non-OECD 18 Renewables 18 OECD Hydro Nuclear Coal 16 16 Gas Oil 14 14 12 12 10 10 8 8 6 6 4 4 2 2 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 Source: BP Energy Outlook 2030 Includes biofuels.
Long-term outlook Along with increasing supply, we believe the energy industry will be Over the long term, global demand for primary energy is expected to required to make hydrocarbons cleaner and more efficient to use continue to grow, but less rapidly than the global economy.
Growing energy particularly in the critical area of power generation, for which the key demand is underpinned by continuing population growth and by generally hydrocarbons are currently coal and gas.
The world has reserves of coal for b rising living standards in the developing world, including the expansion of around 120 years at current consumption rates, but coal produces more urban populations.
These drivers of energy demand growth are to some carbon than any other fossil fuel.
Carbon capture and storage CCS may extent offset by efforts to improve efficiency in both the conversion and help to provide a path to cleaner coal, and BP is investing in this area, but use of energy.
CCS technologies still face significant technical and economic issues and Global energy demand is projected to increase by around 40% are unlikely to be in operation at scale for at least a decade.
Fossil fuels are expected still to be satisfying as In contrast, we believe that in many countries natural gas has the much as 80% of the worlds energy needs in 2030.
At current rates of potential to provide the most significant reductions in carbon emissions consumption, the world has enough proved reserves of fossil fuels to meet from power generation in the shortest time and at the lowest cost.
These b these requirements if investment is permitted to turn those reserves into reductions can be achieved using technology available today.
For example, in oil alone, there are reserves in place to cycle turbines, fuelled by natural gas, produce around half the CO 2 b satisfy approximately 45 years demand at current rates of consumption.
emissions of coal-fired power, and are cheaper and quicker to build.
It is However, to meet the potential growth in demand, continued investment in estimated that there are reserves of natural gas in place equivalent to 63 b new technology will be required to boost recovery from declining fields and years consumption at current rates and they are rising as new skills and commercialize currently inaccessible resources.
To play their part in technology unlock new unconventional gas resources.
For these reasons, achieving this, energy companies such as BP will need secure and reliable gas is looking to be an increasingly attractive resource in meeting the access to as-yet undeveloped resources.
It is estimated that more than growing demand for energy, playing a greater role as a key part of the 80% of the worlds oil reserves are held by Russia, Mexico and members energy future.
b of OPEC areas where international oil companies are frequently limited At the same time, alternative energies also have the potential to or prohibited from applying their technology and expertise to produce make a substantial contribution to the transition to a lower-carbon economy, additional supply.
New partnerships will be required to transform potential but this will require investment, innovation and time.
Currently, biofuels, resources into proved reserves and eventually into production.
wind, solar, and other modern forms of renewable energy account for less a A more diverse mix of energy will also be required to meet this than 2% of total global consumption.
Assuming continuing policy support increased demand.
Such a mix is likely to include both unconventional fossil and favourable technology trends, these forms of energy are likely to meet a fuel resources such as oil sands, coalbed methane and natural gas around 6% of total energy demand in 2030. produced from shale formations and renewable energy sources such as If industry and the market are to meet the worlds growing demand biofuels, wind and solar power.
Beyond simply meeting growth in overall for energy in a sustainable way, governments will be required to set a demand, a diverse mix would also help to provide enhanced national and stable and enduring framework.
As part of this, governments will need to global energy security while supporting the transition to a lower-carbon provide secure access for exploration and development of fossil fuel economy.
Improving the efficiency of energy use will also play a key role in resources, define mutual benefits for resource owners and development maintaining energy market balance in the future.
partners, and establish and maintain an appropriate legal and regulatory environment, including a mechanism for recognizing the cost of carbon.
a BP Energy Outlook 2030. b BP Statistical Review of World Energy June 2010.
These reserve estimates are compiled from official sources and other third-party data, which may not be based on proved reserves as defined by SEC rules.
18 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
