Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Service contracts Remuneration committee Dr Julius chairman, Mr Burgmans, Mr David and Mr Davis are Director independent non-executive directors and were committee members during Contract Salary as at date 31 Dec 2010 the year.
The chairman of the board also attends meetings.
The group chief executive was consulted on matters relating to the other executive R W Dudley 6 Apr 2009 $1,700,000 directors who report to him and on matters relating to the performance of I C Conn 22 Jul 2004 690,000 the company: neither he nor the chairman were present when matters Dr B E Grote 7 Aug 2000 $1,380,000 affecting their own remuneration were discussed.
Mr Burgmans will become chairman of the committee following Dr Juliuss retirement at the Service contracts have a notice period of one year and may be terminated 2011 AGM.
by the company at any time with immediate effect on payment in lieu of The remuneration committees tasks are: notice equivalent to one years salary or the amount of salary that would To determine, on behalf of the board, the terms of engagement and have been paid if the contract had been terminated on the expiry of the remuneration of the group chief executive and the executive directors remainder of the notice period.
The service contracts are expressed to and to report on these to the shareholders.
expire at a normal retirement age of 60 subject to age discrimination.
To determine, on behalf of the board, matters of policy over which the Dr Grotes contract is with BP Exploration Alaska Inc.
He is company has authority regarding the establishment or operation of the seconded to BP p. l. c. under a secondment agreement of 7 August 2000, companys pension scheme of which the executive directors are which expires at the date of the 2012 AGM.
Mr Dudleys contract is with members.
BP Corporation North America Inc.
He is seconded to BP p. l. c. under a To nominate, on behalf of the board, any trustees or directors of secondment agreement of 15 April 2009, which expires on 15 April 2012. corporate trustees of the scheme.
Both secondments can be terminated by one months notice by either party To review and approve the policies and actions being applied by the and terminate automatically on the termination of their service contracts.
group chief executive in remunerating senior executives other than There are no other provisions for compensation payable on early executive directors to ensure alignment and proportionality.
termination of the above contracts.
In the event of the early termination of To recommend to the board the quantum and structure of remuneration any of the contracts by the company, other than for cause or under a for the chairman.
specific termination payment provision, the relevant directors then current salary and benefits would be taken into account in calculating any liability of Constitution and operation the company.
The committee will consider mitigation to reduce Each member of the remuneration committee is subject to annual compensation to a departing director, when appropriate to do so.
re-election as a director of the company.
The board considers all committee members to be independent see page 95.
Directors leaving the board They have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, Mr Inglis and Dr Hayward stepped down from the board on in the committees decisions.
Mr Inglis remained The committee met six times in the period under review.
in employment on his existing salary and benefits until ceasing The committee is accountable to shareholders through its annual employment on 31 December 2010: Dr Hayward ceased employment report on executive directors remuneration.
It will consider the outcome of on 30 November 2010. the vote at the AGM on the directors remuneration report and take into Mr Inglis and Dr Hayward, who were employed under service account the views of shareholders in its future decisions.
The committee contracts with the company dated 1 February 2007 and 29 January 2003 values its dialogue with major shareholders on remuneration matters.
respectively, were each entitled to one years salary 690,000 and 1,045,000 respectively on termination as compensation in accordance Advice with their contractual entitlements.
Dr Hayward was paid a further 30,000 Mr Aronson, an independent consultant, is the committees secretary and compensation in respect of UK statutory employment rights.
As Mr Inglis independent adviser.
Advice was also received from Mr Jackson, the was based in Houston, the company agreed, in accordance with his company secretary, and from the company secretarys office, which is international assignment arrangements, to make a payment of 200,000 to independent of executive management and reports to the chairman of cover various repatriation and relocation costs.
The company reimbursed the board.
both individuals legal fees in connection with their termination The committee also appoints external advisers to provide specialist arrangements, and agreed to pay certain outplacement fees in the case of advice and services on particular remuneration matters.
of the advice is subject to annual review.
Both individuals were eligible for a bonus for 2010 based on the In 2010, the committee continued to engage Towers Watson as its achievement of bonus targets and their period of service during the year.
Towers Watson also provided other remuneration The committee considered bonuses for these individuals at the same time and benefits advice to parts of the group.
as for the remaining executive directors and, for the reasons explained Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP provided legal advice on above, determined that no bonuses should be awarded.
specific matters to the committee, as well as providing some legal advice As regards long-term incentives, both individuals retained their to the group.
unvested performance awards under the EDIP in respect of the 2008-10, 2009-11 and 2010-12 share elements and these will vest at the normal time to the extent the performance targets are met but subject to pro-rating for service during the performance period.
Further details of these awards are set out on page 117.
Both individuals retained their outstanding share options as set out in the table on page 118.
The retention share award granted under the EDIP to Mr Inglis in 2008 lapsed as a result of the termination of his employment.
With effect from 1 December 2010, Dr Hayward has been engaged by BP to serve as a non-executive director of TNK-BP, for which he will be paid a fee of $150,000 per annum.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 119
