Business review Joint ventures and other contractual arrangements BP may not Our systems of control have full operational control and may have exposure to counterparty credit risk and disruptions to our operations The board is responsible for the direction and oversight of BP.
The board and strategic objectives due to the nature of some of its has set an overall goal for BP, which is to maximize long-term shareholder business relationships.
value through the allocation of its resources to activities in the oil, natural Many of our major projects and operations are conducted through joint gas, petrochemicals and energy businesses.
The board delegates authority ventures or associates and through contracting and sub-contracting for achieving this goal to the group chief executive GCE.
These arrangements often involve complex risk allocation, The board maintains five permanent committees that are decision-making processes and indemnification arrangements.
In certain composed entirely of non-executives.
The board and its committees cases, we may have less control of such activities than we would have if monitor, among other things, the identification and management of the BP had full operational control.
Our partners may have economic or groups risks both financial and non-financial.
During the year, the boards business interests or objectives that are inconsistent with or opposed to, committees engage with executive management, the general auditor and those of BP, and may exercise veto rights to block certain key decisions or other monitoring and assurance providers such as the group head of safety actions that BP believes are in its or the joint ventures or associates best and operational risks, the group compliance and ethics officer and the interests, or approve such matters without our consent.
Additionally, our external auditor on a regular basis as part of their oversight of the groups joint venture partners or associates or contractual counterparties are risks.
Significant incidents that occur and managements response to them primarily responsible for the adequacy of the human or technical are considered by the appropriate committee and reported to the board.
In competencies and capabilities which they bring to bear on the joint project, July the board established a new committee of non-executives, the Gulf of and in the event these are found to be lacking, our joint venture partners or Mexico committee, to monitor the response of the company to the Gulf of associates may not be able to meet their financial or other obligations to Mexico incident through oversight of the new GCRO.
The committee their counterparties or to the relevant project, potentially threatening the engages with GCRO management on a regular basis to monitor the viability of such projects.
Furthermore, should accidents or incidents occur response to the incident and management of the risks arising.
See Board in operations in which BP participates, whether as operator or otherwise, performance report on pages 90-105. and where it is held that our sub-contractors or joint-venture partners are The company maintains a comprehensive system of internal legally liable to share any aspects of the cost of responding to such control.
This comprises the holistic set of management systems, incidents, the financial capacity of these third parties may prove inadequate organizational structures, processes, standards and behaviours that are to fully indemnify BP against the costs we incur on behalf of the joint employed to conduct our business and deliver returns for shareholders.
Should a key sub-contractor, such as a The system is designed to meet the expectations of internal control of the lessor of drilling rigs, be no longer able to make these assets available to Corporate Governance Code in the UK and of COSO Committee of BP, this could result in serious disruption to our operations.
Where BP does Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in the US.
It not have operational control of a venture, BP may nonetheless still be addresses risks and how we should respond to them as well as the overall pursued by regulators or claimants in the event of an incident.
Each component of the system has been designed to respond to a particular type or collection of risks.
Material risks are described in the Risk factors section see pages 27-32.
Key elements of our system of internal control are: the control environment: the management of risk and operational performance including in relation to financial reporting : and the management of people and individual performance.
Controls include the BP code of conduct, our operating management system OMS, our leadership framework and our principles for delegation of authority, which are designed to make sure employees understand what is expected of them.
As part of the control system, the GCEs senior team known as the executive team is supported by sub-committees that are responsible for and monitor specific group risks.
These include the group operations risk committee GORC, the group financial risk committee GFRC, the resource commitments meeting RCM, the group people committee GPC, and the groups disclosure committee GDC, which reviews the disclosure controls and procedures over reporting.
Operations and investments are conducted and reported in accordance with, and associated risks are thereby managed through, relevant standards and processes.
These range from OMS which is the structured set of processes designed to deliver safe, responsible and reliable operating activity, to group standards, which set out processes for major areas such as fraud and misconduct reporting, through to detailed administrative instructions.
The GCE conducts regular performance reviews with the segments and key functions to monitor performance and the management of risk and to intervene if necessary.
People management is based on performance objectives, through which individuals are accountable for specific activities within agreed boundaries.
Following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, the company established the GCRO in June to manage the companys response activities, including managing clean-up and restoration costs, claims management and litigation.
Lessons learned from the incident and the recommendations of BPs internal investigation are being embedded into all areas of the system of internal control and in particular in OMS.
32 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
