Contingent liabilities and contingent assets Contingent liabilities relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill As a consequence of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, as described on pages 34 to 39, BP has incurred costs during the year and recognized provisions for certain future costs.
Further information is provided in Note 2 and Note 37.
BP has provided for its best estimate of certain claims under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 OPA 90 that will be paid through the $20-billion trust fund.
It is not possible, at this time, to measure reliably any other items that will be paid from the trust fund, namely any obligation in relation to Natural Resource Damages claims, and claims asserted in civil litigation, nor is it practicable to estimate their magnitude or possible timing of payment.
Natural resource damages resulting from the oil spill are currently being assessed see Note 37 for further information.
BP and the federal and state trustees are collecting extensive data in order to assess the extent of damage to wildlife, shoreline, near shore and deepwater habitats, and recreational uses, among other things.
Because the affected areas and their uses vary by seasons, we anticipate that we will need at least a full year, and perhaps materially longer, after the initial oil impacts to gain an understanding of the natural resource damages.
In addition, if early restoration projects are undertaken, these projects could mitigate the total damages resulting from the incident.
Accordingly, until the size, location and duration of the impact have been determined and the effects of early restoration projects are assessed, or other actions such as potential future settlement discussions occur, it is not possible to obtain a range of outcomes or to estimate reliably either the amounts or timing of the remaining Natural Resource Damages claims.
BP is named as a defendant in more than 400 civil lawsuits brought by individuals, corporations and governmental entities in US federal and state courts resulting from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
Additional lawsuits are likely to be brought.
The lawsuits assert, among others, claims for personal injury in connection with the incident itself and the response to it, and wrongful death, commercial or economic injury, breach of contract and violations of statutes.
The lawsuits, many of which purport to be class actions, seek various remedies including compensation to injured workers and families of deceased workers, recovery for commercial losses and property damage, claims for environmental damage, remediation costs, injunctive relief, treble damages and punitive damages.
These pending lawsuits are at the very early stages of proceedings and most of the claims have been consolidated into one of two multi-district litigation proceedings.
A trial of liability issues in the pending multi-district litigation is currently scheduled for February 2012.
Damage issues will be scheduled for trial thereafter.
Until further fact and expert disclosures occur, court rulings clarify the issues in dispute, liability and damage trial activity nears, or other actions such as possible settlements occur, it is not possible given these uncertainties to arrive at a range of outcomes or a reliable estimate of the liability.
See Legal proceedings on page 130 for further information.
Therefore no amounts have been provided for these items as of 31 December 2010.
Although these items, which will be paid through the trust fund, have not been provided for at this time, BPs full obligation under the $20-billion trust fund has been expensed in the income statement, taking account of the time value of money.
The aggregate of amounts paid and provided for items to be settled from the trust fund currently falls within the amount committed by BP to the trust fund.
For those items not covered by the trust fund it is not possible to measure reliably any obligation in relation to other litigation or potential fines and penalties except, subject to certain assumptions detailed in Note 37, for those relating to the Clean Water Act.
It is also not possible to reliably estimate legal fees beyond two years.
There are a number of federal and state environmental and other provisions of law, other than the Clean Water Act, under which one or more governmental agencies could seek civil fines and penalties from BP.
For example, a complaint filed by the United States sought to reserve the ability to seek penalties and other relief under a number of other laws.
Given the large number of claims that may be asserted, it is not possible at this time to determine whether and to what extent any such claims would be successful or what penalties or fines would be assessed.
Therefore no amounts have been provided for these items.
The magnitude and timing of possible obligations in relation to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill are subject to a very high degree of uncertainty as described further in Risk factors on pages 27 to 32.
Any such possible obligations are therefore contingent liabilities and, at present, it is not practicable to estimate their magnitude or possible timing of payment.
Furthermore, other material unanticipated obligations may arise in future in relation to the incident.
Contingent assets relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill BP is the operator of the Macondo well and holds a 65% working interest, with the remaining 35% interest held by two co-owners, Anadarko Petroleum Corporation APC and MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC MOEX.
Under the Operating Agreement, MOEX and APC are responsible for reimbursing BP for their proportionate shares of the costs of all operations and activities conducted under the Operating Agreement.
In addition, the parties are responsible for their proportionate shares of all liabilities resulting from operations or activities conducted under the Operating Agreement, except where liability results from a partys gross negligence or wilful misconduct, in which case that party is solely responsible.
BP does not believe that it has been grossly negligent nor has it engaged in wilful misconduct under the terms of the Operating Agreement or at law.
As of 31 December 2010, $6 billion had been billed to the co-owners, which BP believes to be contractually recoverable.
Billings to co-owners are based upon costs incurred to date rather than amounts provided in the period.
As further costs are incurred, BP believes that certain of the costs will be billable to our co-owners under the Operating Agreement.
Our co-owners have each written to BP indicating that they are withholding payment in light of the investigations surrounding, and pending determination of the root causes of, the incident.
In addition, APC has publicly accused BP of having been grossly negligent and stated it has no liability for the incident, both of which claims BP refutes and intends to challenge in any legal proceedings.
There are also audit rights concerning billings under the Operating Agreement which may be exercised by APC and MOEX, and which may or may not lead to an adjustment of the amount billed.
BP may ultimately need to enforce its rights to collect payment from the co-owners through an arbitration proceeding as provided for in the Operating Agreement.
There is a risk that amounts billed to co-owners may not ultimately be recovered should our co-owners be found not liable for these costs or be unable to pay them.
BP believes that it has a contractual right to recover the co-owners shares of the costs incurred, however, no recovery amounts have been recognized in the financial statements as at 31 December 2010.
218 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
