Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting nominal amount of the issued share capital of the of Fidelity Special Values PLC will be held at 25 Cannon Company as at 5 November 2010 such authority Street, London EC4M 5TA on 15 December 2010 at to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual 11.30am for the following purposes: General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, ORDINARY BUSINESS whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and shall allow the Company to make offers or financial statements for the year ended 31 August agreements before the expiry of this authority 2010. which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry as if the authority 2.
conferred by this resolution had not expired.
To elect Mrs Sharon Brown as a Director.
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 12 set out above, the Directors be and they are hereby 4.
To elect Mr Andrew Irvine as a Director.
authorised, pursuant to Sections 570-573 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 5.
To re-elect Mr Ben Thomson as a Director of the Act pursuant to the authority given by the said Resolution 12 as if Section 561 of the Act did 6.
To re-elect Mr Douglas Kinloch Anderson not apply to any such allotment, provided that this as a Director.
To re-elect Ms Nicky McCabe as a Director.
a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class 8.
To re-elect Ms Lynn Ruddick as a Director.
of relevant equity securities where the equity securities attributable respectively to the interests 9.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report of all holders of securities of such class are either for the year ended 31 August 2010. proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities 10.
To reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor held by them or are otherwise allotted in of the Company to hold office until the conclusion accordance with the rights attaching to such equity of the next general meeting at which financial securities subject in either case to such exclusions statements are laid before the Company.
or other arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional 11.
To authorise the Directors to determine the entitlements or legal or practical problems under Auditors remuneration.
the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or SPECIAL BUSINESS otherwise : and Resolutions 12 and 13 will, if approved, authorise the Directors to allot a limited number of the currently b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a unissued ordinary shares for cash without first offering rights issue of equity securities up to an aggregate such shares to existing ordinary shareholders pro rata to nominal amount of 1,423,472 approximately 10% their existing holdings.
The limit set by the Board is 10% of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued of the number of ordinary shares of the Company in share capital of the Company as at 5 November issue on 5 November 2010.
The Directors will only 2010 : and issue new shares under this authority to take advantage of opportunities in the market as they arise and only if c to the allotment of equity securities at a price of they believe it is advantageous to the Companys not less than the net asset value per share shareholders to do so.
and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following next Annual General Meeting of the Company or resolutions which will be proposed, resolution 12 the date 15 months after the passing of this as an ordinary resolution and resolution 13 as a resolution, whichever is the earlier, save that this special resolution: authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority, and 12.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby the Directors may allot equity securities in relation generally and unconditionally authorised in to such an offer or agreement as if the authority accordance with Section 551 of the Companies conferred by this resolution had not expired.
Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined Resolution 14 is a special resolution which, if approved, in that section up to an aggregate nominal amount will renew the Companys authority to purchase up to of 1,423,472 approximately 10% of the aggregate 14.99% of the number of ordinary shares in issue on Page 54 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Notice of Meeting 5 November 2010 for cancellation.
Purchases of ordinary shares will be at the discretion of the Board and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the market at prices below the prevailing net asset value per share, thereby resulting in an increased net asset value per share.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 693 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company the shares provided that: a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 8,535,140: b the minimum price which may be paid for a share is 25p: c the maximum price which may be paid for a share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a share taken from the London Stock Exchange Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
Resolution 15 is an ordinary resolution, which relates to the continuation of the Company as an investment trust.
THAT the Company continue to carry on business as an investment trust.
By order of the Board FIL Investments International Secretary 12 November 2010 Registered office: Beech Gate Millfield Lane Lower Kingswood Tadworth Surrey KT20 6RP Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 55 Notes to Notice of Meeting 1.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent vote at the Annual General Meeting may appoint by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation a proxy or proxies to attend and to speak and vote 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations instead of him.
A member may appoint more than 2001.
In any case your proxy form must be received one proxy in relation to the Annual General by the Companys Registrars no later than 11.30am Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to on 13 December 2010. exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
All members are entitled to attend and vote at the a member of the Company.
Annual General Meeting and ask questions.
The right to vote at the meeting will be determined by 2.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned reference to the Register of Members as at 11.30am to the Registrars at the address on the form to on 13 December 2010. arrive not later than 11.30am on 13 December 2010.
Completion and return of the form of proxy 7.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is will not prevent a shareholder from subsequently a person nominated under Section 146 of the attending the meeting and voting in person if they Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights so wish.
a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was 3.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, nominated, have a right to be appointed or to and any power of attorney or other authority under have someone else appointed as a proxy for the which it is signed or a copy of any such authority meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy certified notarially or in some other way approved appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, by the Directors, must be deposited with the he may, under any such agreement, have a right to Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, P O Box give instructions to the member as to the exercise 25, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4BR not less than 48 of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of hours before the time for holding the meeting or members in relation to the appointment of proxies adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll taken in paragraph 1 above does not apply to Nominated more than 48 hours after it is demanded, not less Persons.
The right described in that paragraph can than 24 hours before the time appointed for the only be exercised by members of the Company.
taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy 4.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior appointments, is given discretion as to how the who tenders the vote shall be accepted to the votes which are the subject of those proxies are exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and cast and the voting rights in respect of those for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by discretionary proxies, when added to the interests the order in which the names stand in the Register in the Companys securities already held by the of Members.
Chairman, result in the Chairman holding such number of voting rights that he has a notifiable 5.
To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency instruction to a previously appointed proxy via Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary the CREST system, the CREST message must be notifications to the Company and the Financial received by the issuers agent RA10 by 11.30am Services Authority.
As a result, any member holding on 13 December 2010.
For this purpose, the 3 per cent or more of the voting rights in the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary determined by the timestamp applied to the proxy in respect of some or all of those voting message by the CREST Applications Host from rights and so would otherwise have a notification which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency message.
After this time any change of instructions Rules, need not make separate notification to the to a proxy appointed through CREST should be Company and the Financial Services Authority.
communicated to the proxy by other means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated sponsored members and those CREST Members Securities Regulations 2001, the Company has who have appointed voting service provider s specified that to be entitled to attend and vote at should contact their CREST sponsor or voting the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose service provider s for assistance with appointing of determining the number of votes they may cast, proxies via CREST.
For further information on members must be entered on the Register of CREST procedures, limitations and systems Members by 6.00pm on 13 December 2010.
If timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
the meeting is adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Register of Members at 6.00pm on the day two days before Page 56 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Notes to Notice of Meeting the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, or, if the which notice is to be given or the matter to be Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, included in the business of the meeting, must be at any other time specified in that notice.
authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than 10.
As at 5 November 2010 the latest practicable 1 November 2010, being the date six clear weeks date prior to the publication of this document the before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to Companys issued ordinary share capital consisted be included in the business of the meeting only of 56,938,896 ordinary shares carrying one vote must be accompanied by a statement setting out each.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights the grounds for the request.
in the Company as at 5 November 2010 was 56,938,896.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may 16.
A copy of this notice and other information required exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is provided that they do not do so in relation to the published on the Companys website at same shares.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives Registered office: they appoint understand that by attending the Beech Gate meeting that they are expressly agreeing that Millfield Lane they are willing to receive any communications, Lower Kingswood including communications relating to the Tadworth Companys securities, made at the meeting.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on its website a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting or any circumstance connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual reports and financial statements were laid.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
Under Sections 338 and 338A of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in such business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business of the meeting unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise, b it is defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 57 Investing in Fidelity Special Values PLC The Manager of the Company FIL Investments International offers a range of options, so you can invest in the way that is best for you.
As Fidelity Special Values PLC is a listed company you can also buy its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
Guide on investing for children through investment trusts INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA You may invest in the Companys shares through the is available for free from Fidelity.
Fidelity ISA Individual Savings Account.
A Fidelity ISA can be an excellent way to get more from your Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or holding shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust investment, because you will not have to pay income or capital gains tax on your returns.
Share Plan other than stamp duty of 0.5%, which is currently payable on all share purchases.
However, if The maximum investment in a stocks and shares ISA is you invest through an Independent Financial Adviser, there may be an initial charge of up to 3%.
Holding shares directly If you have shares in Fidelity The full amount may be invested in a Stocks and Shares ISA, or 5,100 in a Cash ISA and the balance in a Stocks Special Values PLC that you bought through a broker or share dealing site you can transfer them into the Fidelity and Shares ISA.
The minimum investment in the Fidelity ISA is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up, or 50 a Investment Trust Share Plan.
Doing this allows you to reinvest your dividends and make further investments month per company in a regular savings plan.
without having to pay brokerage fees.
You will also be able to set up a monthly savings plan and receive Charges The standard initial charge for the Fidelity ISA is 3.5%.
If you download the application via our statements and valuations twice a year.
website the initial charge is jut 1.25%.
There is an additional annual charge of 0.5% VAT when you BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES INFORMATION RIGHTS invest through a Financial Adviser.
There are no other charges for the Fidelity ISA but the Company pays an Registered shareholders of fully listed companies are able to nominate the underlying beneficial owners of their annual management charge to Fidelity of 0.875% of net assets for investment management and 600,000 for shares to receive information rights.
You should contact your registered shareholder direct to request to receive non-portfolio management services as set out in the Annual Report.
Please note that beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the MOVING MONEY FROM ISAS registered holder of those shares to receive information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are If you have opened ISAs with other investment companies, you can move them into the Fidelity ISA required to direct all communications to the registered holder of their shares rather than to the Companys and invest in Fidelity Special Values PLC without losing any tax benefits.
This is known as an ISA transfer and it Registrars, or to the Company direct.
can be a great way to give your portfolio a new focus, or to realign it with your current investment goals.
Please INVESTING ONLINE You can invest online in Fidelity Special Values PLC note that during the transfer your money will not be invested in the stock market so you may miss out on any shares via www.
Fidelity ShareNetwork enables you to buy or sell shares in any growth during this time.
listed company during normal London Stock Exchange trading hours between 8am and 4.30pm any working Charges a standard initial charge applies if you transfer of 3.5%.
You will not have to pay any additional transfer day.
Shares in ShareNetwork can either be held direct or in an ISA there is no extra charge for holding shares in costs.
However, please bear in mind that your current ISA Manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
an ISA, subject to the normal ISA limits and restrictions.
You will be shown a live price and be able to buy or sell INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA immediately.
If an order is placed when the market is closed, it will be processed as soon as the market If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already used your full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment reopens.
Unlike many online share dealing services, Fidelity ShareNetwork gives you personal CREST Trust Share Plan offers you a low cost and convenient way to put money into Fidelity Special Values PLC.
The membership for shares held direct.
This means that shares are registered on the CREST system in your own name minimum investment is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 as an additional top-up or as little as 50 a month through and everything relating to your shares dividends, annual reports and so on will be sent direct to you and you will the regular savings plan.
be able to attend and vote at shareholder meetings in your own name.
Personal CREST membership does not Investing for children The Share Plan is a flexible and inexpensive way to invest on behalf of children.
All you apply to ISA holdings which must be held in the name of the ISA managers nominee under ISA regulations.
Fidelity have to do is enter the initials or name of the child in the Designation Box on the Share Plan application form.
A ShareNetwork has a very competitive cost structure.
Page 58 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Investing in Fidelity Special Values PLC The Share Dealing Service, ShareNetwork, is provided by ONLINE SHAREHOLDER SERVICES Xest which is the online trading division of Charles Stanley SHARE PORTAL & Co Limited, a leading London stockbroker.
Through the website of our Registrars, Capita Registrars, shareholders are able to manage their shareholding Share purchases or sales are executed online for only 9 online by registering for the Share Portal, a free, secure, per trade.
Stamp duty is also payable on purchases at the online access to your shareholding.
There is an account administration fee of 5 per month, however many different shares you own and - Account enquiry Allows shareholders to access their whatever their value.
personal shareholding, including share transaction history, dividend payment history and to obtain an CONTACT INFORMATION up-to-date shareholding valuation.
Private Investors: call free to 0800 41 41 10, - Amendment of standing data This allows you to 9am to 6pm, Monday to Saturday.
change your registered postal address and add, change or delete dividend mandate instructions.
Financial advisers: call free to 0800 41 41 81, You can also download from this site forms such 8am to 6pm, Monday to Friday.
as change of address, stock transfer and dividend mandate as well as buy and sell shares in the Existing shareholders who have a specific query Company.
regarding their holding or need to provide updated information, for example a change of address, To make use of any of these facilities, please log on to the should contact the appropriate administrator: Capita Registrars website at www.
com and follow the links to the Share Portal.
Holders of ordinary shares: Capita Registrars, Registrars to Fidelity Special Values Should you have any queries in respect of the above PLC, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, facilities, please do not hesitate to contact the Capita Huddersfield, West Yorkshire HD8 0GA.
Share Portal helpline on 0871 664 0391 calls cost 10p Telephone: 0871 664 0300 plus network extras, overseas 44 20 8639 3367, or calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
by e-mail at shareportal@capita.
co. uk Lines are open 8:30am - 5:30pm Monday to Friday Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com Capita Share Dealing Services You can make use of a low cost share dealing service Details of individual shareholdings and other information provided by Capita Registrars to buy or sell shares.
can also be obtained from the Registrars website: Further information is available at www.
com or by telephoning 0871 664 0454 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open 8:30am Fidelity Share Plan investors 5:30pm Monday to Friday.
Using Capita Share Dealing BNP Paribas Securities Services, Block C, Western House, Services you will also be able to deal in the shares of Lynchwood Business Park, Peterborough, PE2 6BP.
other companies for which Capita acts as Registrar, Telephone: 0845 358 1107 calls to this number are provided you are already a shareholder in the relevant charged at 3.95p per minute from a BT landline company, and that company offers the Share Deal facility dependent on the tariff.
Other telephone service to its shareholders.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan Fidelity ISA investors This is a convenient way to build up your shareholding Fidelity, using the freephone numbers given above, or by using your cash dividends to buy more shares in the by writing to: UK Customer Service, Fidelity Investment Company.
If you prefer to receive shares for your next Managers, Oakhill House, 130 Tonbridge Road, dividend instead of cash please complete an application Hildenborough, Tonbridge, Kent TN11 9DZ form online at www.
co. uk its IRG Trustees on 0871 644 0381 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras from UK or 44 20 8639 Fidelity ShareNetwork 3402 from overseas.
co. uk sharenetwork ShareGift General enquiries should be made to FIL Investments You may donate your shares to charity free of charge International, the Investment Manager and Secretary, through ShareGift.
Further details are available at at the Companys registered office, FIL Investments www.
uk or by telephoning 020 7930 3737. International, Investment Trusts, Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP.
co. uk its Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 59 Investing in Fidelity Special Values PLC FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm Monday - Saturday.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, near St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk its or contacting your Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ISA is offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by FIL Investments International.
Both companies are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is administered by BNP Paribas Securities Services and shares will be held in the name of Puddle Dock Nominees Limited.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity investment trusts are managed by FIL Investments International.
Fidelity only gives information about its own products and services and does not provide investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact a Financial Adviser.
Issued by Fidelity Special Values PLC.
Please note that the value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
For funds that invest in overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment.
Investing in small and emerging markets can be more volatile than other more developed markets.
Reference in this document to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities, but is included for the purposes of illustration only.
Investors should also note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may already have been acted upon by Fidelity.
Fidelity, Fidelity Investment Managers and the Pyramid Logo are trademarks of FIL Limited.
Page 60 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 WARNING TO SHAREHOLDERS BOILER ROOM SCAMS Many companies are aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA reported that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk register Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting www.
uk If the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
html Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.
uk The printing inks used for this report are made from vegetable based oils and 95% of cleaning solvents are recycled for further use.
The electricity was all generated from renewable sources and on average 98% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Printed using pureprint environmental print technology by a CarbonNeutral company, registered to the Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Revive 50:50, a paper containing 50% recovered fibre & 50% virgin fibre.
Pulps used are elemental chlorine free, manufactured Cert no.
SGS-COC-0620 at a mill with the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System.
