Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual Under applicable law and regulations the Directors report and the financial statements in accordance with are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires including a Business Review, a Directors Remuneration the Directors to prepare financial statements for each Report and a Corporate Governance Statement that financial period.
Under the law they have elected to comply with that law and those regulations.
The prepare the financial statements in accordance with Directors are responsible for the maintenance and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys pages of the Managers The financial statements are required by law to give a website www.
Visitors to the website true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom and of the profit or loss for the period.
governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in In preparing these financial statements the Directors their jurisdictions.
are required to: We confirm that to the best of our knowledge the select suitable accounting policies and then apply financial statements, prepared in accordance with the them consistently: applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and and prudent: profit or loss of the Company: and the Directors Report state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards includes a fair review of the development and have been followed, subject to any material performance of the business and the position of the departures disclosed and explained in the financial Company together with a description of the principal statements: and risks and uncertainties it faces.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume Approved by the Board on 5 November 2010 and that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that adequate accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Lynn Ruddick Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the Chairman assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable 5 November 2010 steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 27
