Information for Shareholders Net asset value and share price costs for CGT purposes, based on the price at that The Companys net asset value is released daily, on date, adjusted for capital changes are as follows: the working day following the calculation date, to the Unit of Market London Stock Exchange.
The current share price of Quotation price Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust is shown in the Ordinary shares 25p 14.875p investment trust section of the stockmarket page in 4.25% Perpetual most leading newspapers, usually under For & Col. debenture stock 100 28.25 Investors in New Zealand can obtain share prices from leading newspapers in that country.
Shareholders in doubt as to their CGT position should consult their professional advisers.
Performance information Information on the Companys performance is Income tax provided in the half-yearly and final reports which The final dividend of 3.75 pence per share is payable are sent to shareholders in August and March on 9 May 2011.
Individual UK resident shareholders respectively and in the interim management who are subject to UK income tax at the lower statement announcements.
More up-to-date rate or the basic rate have no further tax liability.
performance information, including the full list Shareholders not resident in the UK, and any of investments in the portfolio as at the most shareholders in doubt as to their tax position, should recent quarter end, is available on the Internet at consult their professional advisers.
com also Association of Investment Companies AIC provides a monthly update on the Companys Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust is a member geographic spread and largest holdings, along with of the AIC, which publishes a monthly statistical comments from the Fund Manager.
information service in respect of member companies.
The publication also has details of ISA and other UK capital gains tax CGT investment plans available.
For further details, please An approved investment trust does not pay tax on contact the AIC on 020 7282 5555, or visit the capital gains.
UK resident individuals may realise net website: www.
capital gains of up to 10,100 in the tax year ended 5 April 2011 without incurring any tax liability.
The rate of CGT of 18% will apply where taxable income and gains do not exceed the income tax higher rate threshold 37,400 in 2010 11 tax year.
The higher rate of 28% will apply to those whose income and gains exceed this figure.
For UK investors who acquired Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust stock prior to 31 March 1982, the Warning to shareholders Boiler Room Scams In recent years, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have been targeted by unauthorised overseas-based brokers selling what turn out to be non-existent or high risk shares, or expressing a wish to buy their shares.
If you receive unsolicited investment advice or requests: Make sure you get the correct name of the person or organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk pages register Report the matter to the FSA by calling 0845 606 1234 If the calls persist, hang up.
More detailed information on this can be found on the CFEB website www.
uk 64 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
