Directors Report and Business Review continued Private equity Risk description: The majority of the underlying private equity investments are in unlisted companies.
Such investments may prove difficult or impossible to realise.
Mitigation: Private equity risks are mitigated by investing in a spread of direct, secondary, venture capital, buyout and mezzanine fund of funds and by the wide spread of underlying private equity firms, which in turn have diversified investment portfolios and vintage years.
Service providers Risk description: The Manager is the main service provider and its failure to continue operating effectively could put in jeopardy the business of the Company.
Mitigation: The Board meets regularly with the senior management of the Manager and its Internal Audit function, and has access to publicly available information indicative of its financial position and performance.
The Board has contingency arrangements to facilitate the ongoing operation of the business in the event of any such failure.
The management contract can be moved at short notice.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by Buyback policy the Company, and our mitigation approach, are Subject to annual shareholder approval, the Company described below.
Note 26 on the accounts sets out may buy back its own shares for cancellation at a the Companys financial risk management policy.
discount to net asset value per share.
This forms Most of the Companys principal risks, and its part of its wider strategy under which the Board has opportunities, are market-related and no different to the objective of achieving a less volatile discount with those of other investment trusts investing primarily a ceiling, in normal market conditions, of 10% with in listed equities.
More specific to Foreign & Colonial debt at market value, as well as enhancing net asset are those relating to private equity.
The private equity value per share for continuing shareholders.
As at portfolio is expected to perform strongly in the first 31 December 2010 the discount stood at 10.6% with half of 2011 as valuations catch up with the rise in debt at market value.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 6 May 2010, Arrangements are also in place to mitigate other shareholders renewed the Boards authority to buy more general risks including those relating to safe back up to 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares custody of assets and counterparty failure.
A total of 21,970,048 shares were bought back and cancelled, representing 3.5% of the Capital structure shares in issue at 31 December 2009.
This enhanced As at 31 December 2010 there were 610,119,016 the net asset value per share by 1.11 pence.
The ordinary shares of 25 pence each in issue.
As at purchases were made at prices ranging between 3 March 2011, the number stood at 605,338,016.
256.38 pence and 310.51 pence and the aggregate All ordinary shares rank equally for dividends and consideration paid for the shares, including stamp distributions and carry one vote each.
Details of duty and commissions, was 62,232,000. the capital structure can be found in note 18 on Between the year end and 3 March 2011, a further the accounts.
The revenue profits of the Company 4,781,000 shares have been purchased which including accumulated revenue reserves are represents approximately 0.8% of the share capital available for distribution by way of dividends to the at an average price of 315.25 pence.
holders of the ordinary shares.
Upon a windingA resolution to renew the authority to buy back up up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the to 90,740,000 shares will be put to shareholders at the surplus assets would be distributed to shareholders Annual General Meeting Resolution 16.
A resolution pro rata to their holdings of ordinary shares.
20 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
