Directors Report and Business Review continued The Nomination Committee considered the The Managers responsibilities election of Mr Hewitt and re-election of each of Most investment trusts, including your Company, have the other Directors at a meeting held in January no employees and instead appoint fund management 2011, including a review of their commitment companies to manage their investment portfolios and and status as independent and, in the case of Sir deliver investment performance, as well as to carry Michael Bunbury, as a long serving non-executive out the ancillary functions of administration, secretarial, Director: Sir Michael has indicated that he will retire accounting and marketing services.
Immediately following the Annual General Meeting The Company has appointed F&C as Manager.
The Directors absented themselves from F&C is responsible for gearing, asset allocation and those parts of the meetings that dealt with their sector and stock selection, together with the overall own re-election.
The Board has concurred with the risk management of the Companys assets, within Nomination Committees assessment that each limits set and regularly monitored by the Board.
Director continues to make a valuable and effective The appointment is governed by a management contribution and remains committed to their roles.
agreement, which is terminable upon six months notice given by either party.
Further information on Directors interests and indemnification this agreement is set out in note 4 on the accounts.
There were no contracts of significance to which the Jeremy Tigue acts as Fund Manager the Fund Company was a party and in which a Director is, or Manager to the Company, on behalf of F&C, and was, materially interested during the year.
is responsible and accountable for the entire portfolio The Company has granted a deed of indemnity, including North America and private equity, and other key to the extent permitted by law, to the Directors in areas such as marketing and investor relations.
As at 4 respect of liabilities that may attach to them in their March 2011 the Fund Manager held 396,120 shares in capacity as Directors of the Company.
The deed of the Company 31 December 2010: 394, 848 shares.
indemnity is available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and Foreign & Colonial or F&C at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company also Once a subsidiary of Foreign & Colonial, F&C is now maintains directors and officers liability insurance.
owned by F&C Asset Management plc FCAM, a The beneficial interests of the Directors in the large pan-European investment group listed on the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the London Stock Exchange.
Foreign & Colonial has a long table below.
association with F&C, having originally established and developed it for the purpose of managing its assets Directors interests as far back as 1953.
The Companys relationship with at 31 December 2010 2009 F&C is fully arms-length with no cross-directorships or Simon Fraser 36,131 31,482 common share interests.
Sir Roger Bone 18,052 7,699 Part of the legacy is that the names Foreign & Sir Michael Bunbury 97,000 97,000 Colonial and F&C are often used synonymously and incorrectly by commentators in the public arena.
Stephen Burley 25,000 25,000 However, the companies each own their respective Sir David Clementi 8,445 5,141 names and are two distinct and completely Jeffrey Hewitt 9,215 independent entities.
Christopher Keljik 58,224 57,177 Maxwell Ward 30,000 30,000 North America portfolio Since the year end, the following Directors have acquired further ordinary shares: Sir Roger Bone 220, Sir David Clementi 472 and Mr Jeffrey In the case of the regional equity portfolios, the Fund Hewitt 315.
There have been no changes in any of the other Directors shareholdings detailed above.
No Director held any interests in the issued Manager has the flexibility to recommend to the stocks or shares of the Company other than as stated above.
Board their delegation to external third party subThe Companys register of Directors interests contains full details of Directors shareholdings.
managers when this seems likely to result in better investment performance.
Throughout the period 22 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
