to authorise the Directors to allot up to 30,266,900 out in the Companys objective and policy section shares will also be proposed Resolution 15. and the debenture deeds.
The Company maintains multi-currency credit facilities with Scotia Capital and Marketing Santander totalling 100m, which will be subject to The Manager actively promotes investment in review in October 2011 and July 2012 respectively.
the Companys shares through the F&C savings The Company also has a multi-currency overdraft plans.
These include the Child Trust Fund CTF, facility with JPMorganChase.
Further reference is Childrens Investment Plan CIP, Individual Savings made on page 5 and in note 14 on the accounts.
Account ISA, Pensions Savings Plan PSP and Private Investor Plan PIP.
The Boards responsibilities The Companys Board of Directors is wholly nonVoting rights and proportional voting executive and is responsible for corporate strategy, At 3 March 2011 the Company had 605,338,016 corporate governance, risk and control assessment, ordinary shares in issue represented a total the overall investment policy of the Company, setting of 605,338,016 voting rights.
As at that date the limits on gearing and asset allocation, monitoring Company had received notification of the following investment performance and for approving marketing holding of voting rights under the FSAs Disclosure policy budgets.
Further information in relation to the and Transparency Rules : Board can be found on page 29.
Information on the individual Directors, all of whom are resident in the Legal & General Group plc 4.5% UK, can be found on pages 14 and 15.
The above percentage is calculated by applying the shareholding as notified to the Company to the issued ordinary share capital as at 3 March 2011.
Directors remuneration and shareholdings The Manager holds 43.9% of the Companys The Directors Remuneration Report, which can be share capital on behalf of non-discretionary clients found on pages 27 and 28, together with note 6 through its savings plans.
The nominee company on the accounts, provides detailed information on holding these shares votes the shares held on behalf the remuneration arrangements for Directors of the of planholders who have not returned their voting Company.
Shareholders will be asked to approve directions in proportion to the directions of those who the Directors Remuneration Report at the Annual have proportional voting.
Implementation of this General Meeting Resolution 2. arrangement is subject to a minimum threshold of 5% of the shares held in the savings plans being voted.
Director elections and re-elections A maximum limit of 664,500 shares that any one Other than Mr Jeffrey Hewitt, who joined the Board individual investor can vote, being approximately 5% on 15 September 2010, and Ms Sarah Arkle and of the minimum threshold, also applies.
Any shares Mr Nicholas Moakes, who both joined on 2 March voted by an investor in excess of the maximum limit 2011, all the Directors held office throughout the remain valid, but do not form part of the proportional year under review.
These three new Directors will voting basis.
Planholders have the right to exclude stand for election at the forthcoming Annual General their shares from the proportional voting arrangement.
Meeting in accordance with the Companys articles of association Resolutions 4, 5 and 6.
Borrowings With the exception of Mr Max Ward, who will retire The Company has a 110 million 11.25% debenture immediately following the Annual General Meeting, stock, which matures in December 2014, and a all the other Directors will stand for re-election in 575,000 4.25% perpetual debenture stock.
accordance with the requirements of the UK Information in relation to the debentures can be Corporate Governance Code Resolutions 7 to 12. found in note 17 on the accounts.
The Company Mr Ronald Gould resigned and Mr Mark Loveday also has the ability to use short-term borrowings by retired from the Board on 27 January 2010 and way of loans and overdrafts, subject to the limits set 6 May 2010 respectively.
