Directors Report and Business Review continued MANAGER EVALUATION AND between the listed portfolio and private equity.
RE-APPOINTMENT Stock selection had been negative in all but one The process of the regional portfolios, with the biggest impact The Managers performance is considered at every in the UK and Emerging Markets.
Most portfolios Board meeting, with a formal evaluation in January had underperformed against their respective of each year.
For the purposes of its ongoing indices over one, three and five years.
Gearing monitoring, the Board receives detailed reports had more of a positive impact than in 2009. and views from the Fund Manager on investment iii Resources, services and advice provided In policy, asset allocation, gearing and risk, together addition to its investment management resources, with quarterly presentations on the F&C managed F&C had the necessary resources and experienced regional portfolios.
Quarterly updates are received people to continue to provide the full range of from the US sub-managers.
The Board also investment trust services required by the Company.
receives comprehensive performance measurement schedules, provided by Morningstar UK Limited Decision to re-appoint and F&C, at each meeting.
These enable it to Following this review and evaluation, it was the assess the success or failure of the management opinion of the Board that the continuing appointment of the total portfolio against the performance of F&C as Manager on the terms agreed was in the objectives set by the Board, to assess the sources interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Board had of positive and negative contribution to the portfolio noted the disappointing short-term performance of in terms of gearing, asset allocation and stock the regional portfolios managed by F&C and would selection and to assess the performance of each be looking for significant improvements in stock region against its local index and the risk return selection going forward.
The challenge for F&C is, characteristics of the portfolio.
as ever, that of maintaining the good long-term The Boards annual review and evaluation of the investment performance of the Company.
Managers performance over the past year was carried out in January 2011.
The process involved The Boards priorities for the year ahead a formal presentation by F&Cs Chief Executive The overriding priority has not changed from previous Officer, the Head of Equities, the Fund Manager years.
That is to strive for the consistent achievement and the Head of Investment Trusts, which covered of relative outperformance, adding value for developments at F&C, the Companys investment shareholders through net asset value and share price performance in 2010, as well as the provision of total return, discount management, dividend growth, resources and services during the year.
This was a low and competitive total expense ratio and effective followed by a closed session of the Board to assess marketing.
The outlook for the Company is reported the Managers overall performance and consider its in the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 and 4 and in re-appointment for the ensuing year.
the Fund Managers Review on page 11.
Matters considered Annual General Meeting i Overall investment performance The Manager Shareholders will have received a separate enclosure had matched its target composite benchmark, containing the Notice of the Annual General Meeting to but underperformed its other target, the weighted be held at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, average of the net asset value total return London EC2 on 5 May 2011 at 12 noon.
The enclosure of the close peer group over one, three, five explains each resolution and the voting arrangements.
The Company was below the composite benchmark over three years, but had By order of the Board, outperformed over five and ten years.
for and on behalf of F&C Management Limited, ii Performance attribution The main positive for Secretary the year had been asset allocation, split equally 4 March 2011 26 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
