not directly the responsibility of the Manager.
The Relations with shareholders Companys principal risks are set out on pages 19 Shareholder communication is given a high priority.
In and 20, with additional information given in note 26 addition to the annual and half-yearly reports that are on the accounts.
available to shareholders, monthly fact sheets and The systems of internal controls are designed to general information are available on the Companys manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve website at www.
business objectives and can only provide reasonable, A regular dialogue is maintained with the Companys but not absolute, assurance against material misinstitutional shareholders and private client asset statement, or loss or fraud.
As in previous years, the Chairman contacted The Board has carried out a risk and control the top institutional shareholders, as a result of which assessment as at 2 March 2011, including a review email correspondence took place with five of these of the Managers risk management infrastructure and shareholders owning a total of 8% of the share capital.
the report on policies and procedures in operation At annual general meetings, all investors have the and tests for the period 1 January to 31 December opportunity to question and meet the Chairman, the 2010 the Report.
This has been prepared by Board and the Fund Manager.
the Manager for its investment trust clients to the All beneficial shareholders in the F&C plans have the standards of the Institute of Chartered Accountants opportunity to vote using a form of direction and have in England and Wales Technical Release AAF 01 06. the right to attend, speak and vote at all meetings.
Containing a report from independent external The Manager has stated that the nominee company accountants, the Report sets out the Managers will vote the shares held on behalf of planholders, who control policies and procedures with respect have not returned their voting directions in proportion to the management of its clients investments to the directions of those who have.
and maintenance of their financial records.
The Shareholders wishing to communicate with the effectiveness of these controls is monitored by the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or any Managers group audit committee, which receives other member of the Board may do so by writing regular reports from the Managers Audit, Risk and to the Company, for the attention of the Company Compliance Department.
Procedures are in place to Secretary, at the address set out on page 16 or by capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses and emailing to FCITCoSec@fandc.
ensure that action would be taken to remedy any significant issues identified from this monitoring, which By order of the Board would be reported to the Board.
No material failings or for and on behalf of F&C Management Limited weaknesses in respect of the Company were identified Secretary in the year under review.
