under review there were two sub-managers for the Manager has voted against the recommendation of North America large and mid-cap equity portfolios, the management on any resolution.
It also expects to namely Barrow Hanley and T Rowe Price.
be informed of any sensitive voting issues involving the Companys investments.
Private equity portfolio The private equity funds of funds investments are The Managers fees managed externally by the private equity managers, Since July 2005, the Manager has received a fixed Pantheon Ventures Limited Pantheon and annual fee, paid monthly in arrears, and has also been HarbourVest Partners LLC HarbourVest.
The Fund entitled to performance-related fees.
The Manager Manager acts as a representative of the Company was paid a fixed fee of 6.8 million 2009: 6.7 million on the advisory committees of these managers.
for its services in 2010, less amounts equal to the fees Recommendations for further private equity and unlisted already received in respect of holdings in the portfolio investments remain subject to approval by the Board.
There were no performancerelated fee entitlements for 2010 as the payment Safe custody of assets criteria for the two separate arrangements, detailed The Companys listed investments are held in safe below, were not met: custody by JP Morgan Chase the Custodian.
5% of any net asset value total return per share Operational matters with the Custodian are carried outperformance of the benchmark of 40% FTSE out on the Companys behalf by the Manager in All-Share and 60% FTSE WI World ex UK indices accordance with the provisions of the management the Composite Benchmark, carrying forward agreement.
The Companys relationship with the any underperformance, plus a hurdle of 0.5%: and Custodian is governed by an agreement, which was 5% of any net asset value total return per share reviewed during the year to ensure the arrangements outperformance of the weighted average of those of continued to meet best market practice.
the Companys five closest peers within the Global Growth Investment Trust sector Alliance Trust, Responsible ownership The Bankers Investment Trust, Scottish Investment F&C, in the absence of explicit instructions from the Trust, Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust and Board, is empowered to exercise discretion in the use Witan Investment Trust the Close Peer Group.
of the Companys voting rights.
All shareholdings are Note 4 on the accounts provides detailed voted at all meetings worldwide where practicable in information in relation to the respective management accordance with the Managers own corporate and performance fees incurred by the Company.
governance policy, which is to seek to maximise shareholder value by constructive use of votes at Change in the fee structure company meetings and by endeavouring to use its The fee structure has been changed with effect from influence as an investor with a principled approach to 1 January 2011 with the replacement of the Managers corporate governance.
Environmental factors are, where fixed fee by an ad valorem basis and the removal of appropriate, taken into consideration with regard to the performance fee arrangement.
The Manager will investment decisions taken on behalf of the Company.
now receive an annual fee equal to 0.365% of the F&Cs statement of compliance with The UK market capitalisation of the Company, calculated and Stewardship Code, issued by the Financial Reporting paid monthly.
As with the fixed fee, there will be a Council in July 2010, has been reviewed and endorsed deduction for the amounts earned from investments in by the Board, which encourages and supports the other investment vehicles managed by F&C.
Manager on its voting policy and its stance towards environmental, social and governance issues.
The Sub-managers fees statement is available on the Managers website at The Manager incurred investment management fees www.
The Board from the sub-managers appointed to manage the periodically receives a report on instances where the North America portfolio.
The Company reimburses Report and Accounts 2010 23
