HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Taxation of shares and dividends Taxation of shares and dividends Information on the taxation consequences of the HSBC Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the Taxation UK residents 2009 fourth interim dividend and the first, second and third interim dividends for 2010 was set out in The following is a summary, under current law, of the Secretarys letters to shareholders of 30 March, certain UK tax considerations that are likely to be 2 June, 1 September and 1 December 2010.
In no material to the ownership and disposition of shares.
case, was the difference between the cash dividend The summary does not purport to be a foregone and the market value of the scrip dividend comprehensive description of all the tax in excess of 15% of the market value.
Accordingly, considerations that may be relevant to a holder of the amount of the dividend income chargeable to tax, shares.
In particular, the summary deals principally and, the acquisition price of HSBC Holdings with shareholders who are resident solely in the UK US$0.50 ordinary shares the shares for UK for UK tax purposes and only with holders who hold capital gains tax purposes, was the cash dividend the shares as investments and who are the beneficial foregone.
owners of the shares, and does not address the tax treatment of certain classes of holders such as Taxation of capital gains dealers in securities.
Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their own advisers The computation of the capital gains tax liability regarding the tax consequences of an investment arising on disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings by in shares in light of their particular circumstances, shareholders subject to UK tax on capital gains can including the effect of any national, state or local be complex, partly depending on whether, for laws.
example, the shares were purchased since April 1991, acquired in 1991 in exchange for shares in Taxation of dividends The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, or acquired subsequent to 1991 in exchange Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by for shares in other companies.
However, dividends are paid with an associated tax credit which is available for set-off For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition by certain shareholders against any liability they cost for ordinary shares is adjusted to take account may have to UK income tax.
Currently, the of subsequent rights and capitalisation issues.
Any associated tax credit is equivalent to 10% of the capital gain arising on a disposal by a UK company combined cash dividend and tax credit, i. e. one-ninth may also be adjusted to take account of indexation of the cash dividend.
If in doubt, shareholders are recommended to consult their professional advisers.
For individual shareholders who are resident in the UK for taxation purposes and liable to UK Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax income tax at the basic rate, no further UK income Transfers of shares by a written instrument of tax liability arises on the receipt of a dividend from transfer generally will be subject to UK stamp duty HSBC Holdings.
Individual shareholders who are at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration paid for the liable to UK income tax at the higher rate or transfer, and such stamp duty is generally payable by additional rate are taxed on the combined amount of the transferee.
the dividend and the tax credit at the dividend upper rate currently 32.5% and the dividend additional An agreement to transfer shares, or any interest rate currently 42.5%, respectively.
The tax credit is therein, normally will give rise to a charge to stamp available for set-off against the dividend upper rate duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the and the dividend additional rate liability.
However, provided an instrument of UK resident shareholders are not entitled to any tax transfer of the shares is executed pursuant to the credit repayment.
agreement and duly stamped before the date on Although non-UK resident shareholders are which the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, generally not entitled to any repayment of the tax under the current practice of UK HM Revenue and credit in respect of any UK dividend received, some Customs it will not be necessary to pay the stamp such shareholders may be so entitled under the duty reserve tax, nor to apply for such tax to be provisions of a double taxation agreement between cancelled.
Stamp duty reserve tax is generally their country of residence and the UK.
However, in payable by the transferee.
most cases no amount of the tax credit is, in practice, Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the repayable.
UKs paperless share transfer system, are liable to 376 stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the Taxation of dividends consideration.
In CREST transactions, the tax Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by is calculated and payment made automatically.
A US holder must include cash Deposits of shares into CREST generally will not be dividends paid on the shares or ADSs in ordinary subject to stamp duty reserve tax, unless the transfer income on the date that such holder or the ADS into CREST is itself for consideration.
Following the depositary receives them, translating dividends paid case HSBC pursued before the European Court of in UK pounds sterling into US dollars using the Justice Case C-569 07 HSBC Holdings plc and exchange rate in effect on the date of receipt.
A US Vidacos Nominees v The Commissioners for HM holder that elects to receive shares in lieu of a cash Revenue & Customs HMRC now accepts that the dividend must include in ordinary income the fair charge to stamp duty reserve tax at 1.5% on the issue market value of such shares on the dividend payment of shares to a depositary receipt issuer or a clearance date, and the tax basis of those shares will equal such service located within the European Union is fair market value.
Subject to certain exceptions for positions that Taxation US residents are held for less than 61 days or are hedged, and The following is a summary, under current law, of subject to a foreign corporation being considered a the principal UK tax and US federal income tax qualified foreign corporation which includes not considerations that are likely to be material to the being classified for US federal income tax purposes ownership and disposition of shares or ADSs by a as a passive foreign investment company, certain holder that is a resident of the US for US federal dividends qualified dividends received by an income tax purposes a US holder and who is not individual US holder before 2013 generally will be resident or ordinarily resident in the UK for U tax subject to US taxation at a maximum rate of 15%.
The summary does not purport to be a Based on the companys audited financial statements comprehensive description of all of the tax and relevant market and shareholder data, HSBC considerations that may be relevant to a holder of Holdings does not anticipate being classified as a shares or ADSs.
In particular, the summary deals passive foreign investment company.
Accordingly, only with US holders that hold shares or ADSs as dividends paid on the shares or ADSs generally capital assets, and does not address the tax treatment should be treated as qualified dividends.
of holders that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, Taxation of capital gains dealers in securities or currencies, persons that hold Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other shares or ADSs as part of an integrated investment disposition of shares or ADSs normally will not be including a straddle comprised of a share or ADS subject to UK taxation unless at the time of the sale and one or more other positions, and persons that or other disposition the holder carries on a trade, own, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or voting stock of HSBC Holdings.
This discussion is agency or permanent establishment and the shares or based on laws, treaties, judicial decisions and ADSs are or have been used, held or acquired for the regulatory interpretations in effect on the date purposes of such trade, profession, vocation, branch hereof, all of which are subject to change.
Under the or agency or permanent establishment.
Such gains current income tax treaty between the UK and the will be included in income for US tax purposes, and US, US holders are no longer entitled to claim a will be long-term capital gains if the shares or ADSs special foreign tax credit in respect of dividends.
were held for more than one year.
A long-term capital gain realised by an individual holder before Holders and prospective purchasers should 2013 generally will be subject to US tax at a consult their own advisers regarding the tax maximum rate of 15%.
consequences of an investment in shares or ADSs in light of their particular circumstances, including Inheritance tax the effect of any national, state or local laws.
Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose Any US federal tax advice included in this domicile is determined to be the US for the purposes Annual Report is for informational purposes only: of the United States-United Kingdom Double it was not intended or written to be used, and cannot Taxation Convention relating to estate and gift taxes be used, for the purpose of avoiding US federal tax the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not for such penalties.
purposes a national of the UK will not, provided any US Federal estate or gift tax chargeable has been 377 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Taxation of shares and dividends paid, be subject to UK inheritance tax on the No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer individuals death or on a lifetime transfer of shares of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS, provided that or ADSs except in certain cases where the shares or the ADR and any separate instrument of transfer or ADSs i are comprised in a settlement unless, at the written agreement to transfer remain at all times time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in outside the UK, and provided further that any such the US and was not a national of the UK, ii is transfer or written agreement to transfer is not part of the business property of a UK permanent executed in the UK.
No stamp duty reserve tax will establishment of an enterprise, or iii pertains to be payable on a transfer of, or agreement to transfer, a UK fixed base of an individual used for the an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR.
performance of independent personal services.
In such cases, the Estate Tax Treaty generally provides US backup withholding tax and information a credit against US Federal tax liability for the reporting amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the Distributions made on shares or ADSs and proceeds shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance from the sale of shares or ADSs that are paid within tax and to US Federal estate or gift tax.
the US, or through certain financial intermediaries to US holders, are subject to information reporting and Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax may be subject to a US backup withholding tax ADSs unless, in general, the US holder complies with If shares are transferred to a clearance service or certain certification procedures or is a corporation or depository receipt ADR issuer located outside other person exempt from such withholding.
Holders the European Union which will include a transfer that are not US persons generally are not subject to of shares to the Depository UK stamp duty and or information reporting or backup withholding tax, stamp duty reserve tax will be payable.
The stamp but may be required to comply with applicable duty or stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable certification procedures to establish that they are not on the consideration for the transfer and is payable US persons in order to avoid the application of such at the aggregate rate of 1.5%.
information reporting requirements or backup withholding tax to payments received within the The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable US or through certain financial intermediaries.
on such a transfer will be reduced by any stamp duty paid in connection with the same transfer.
378 Cautionary statement regarding of public or private defined benefit pensions: forward-looking statements and consumer perception as to the continuing availability of credit and price competition in The Annual Report and Accounts 2010 contains the market segments we serve: certain forward-looking statements with respect to changes in government policy and regulation, HSBCs financial condition, results of operations including the monetary, interest rate and other and business.
policies of central banks and other regulatory Statements that are not historical facts, including authorities: initiatives to change the size, statements about HSBCs beliefs and expectations, scope of activities and interconnectedness of are forward-looking statements.
Words such as financial institutions in connection with the expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, implementation of stricter regulation of financial seeks, estimates, potential and reasonably institutions in key markets worldwide: revised possible, variations of these words and similar capital and liquidity benchmarks which could expressions are intended to identify forward-looking serve to deleverage bank balance sheets and statements.
These statements are based on current lower returns available from the current business plans, estimates and projections, and therefore undue model and portfolio mix: imposition of levies or reliance should not be placed on them.
Forwardtaxes designed to change business mix and risk looking statements speak only as of the date they are appetite: the practices, pricing or responsibilities made, and it should not be assumed that they have of financial institutions serving their consumer been revised or updated in the light of new markets: expropriation, nationalisation, information or future events.
confiscation of assets and changes in legislation relating to foreign ownership: changes in Written and or oral forward-looking statements bankruptcy legislation in the principal markets may also be made in the periodic reports to the US in which we operate and the consequences Securities and Exchange Commission, summary thereof: general changes in government policy financial statements to shareholders, proxy statements, that may significantly influence investor offering circulars and prospectuses, press releases decisions: extraordinary government actions as a and other written materials, and in oral statements result of current market turmoil: other made by HSBCs Directors, officers or employees to unfavourable political or diplomatic third parties, including financial analysts.
developments producing social instability or Forward-looking statements involve inherent legal uncertainty which in turn may affect risks and uncertainties.
Readers are cautioned that a demand for our products and services: the costs, number of factors could cause actual results to differ, effects and outcomes of product regulatory in some instances materially, from those anticipated reviews, actions or litigation, including any or implied in any forward-looking statement.
These additional compliance requirements: and the include, but are not limited to: effects of competition in the markets where we operate including increased competition from changes in general economic conditions in the non-bank financial services companies, markets in which we operate, such as continuing including securities firms: and or deepening recessions and fluctuations in employment beyond those factored into factors specific to HSBC, including our success consensus forecasts: changes in foreign in adequately identifying the risks we face, such exchange rates and interest rates: volatility in as the incidence of loan losses or delinquency, equity markets: lack of liquidity in wholesale and managing those risks through account funding markets: illiquidity and downward price management, hedging and other techniques.
pressure in national real estate markets: adverse Effective risk management depends on, among changes in central banks policies with respect other things, our ability through stress testing to the provision of liquidity support to financial and other techniques to prepare for events that markets: heightened market concerns over cannot be captured by the statistical models it sovereign creditworthiness in over-indebted uses: and our success in addressing operational, countries: adverse changes in the funding status legal and regulatory, and litigation challenges.
379 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
