Independent auditors report to the members of HSBC Infrastructure Company Limited We have audited the group and Company financial statements Basis of audit opinion the financial statements of HSBC Infrastructure Company We conducted our audit in accordance with International Limited for the year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Consolidated and Company Income Statements, the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the and Company Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity, the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements and the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the under the accounting policies set out therein.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 262 of the Companies Guernsey We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we information and explanations which we considered necessary might state to the Companys members those matters we are in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the financial In our opinion the financial statements: statements which give a true and fair view and are in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and adopted by the EU and are in compliance with applicable Companys affairs as at 31 March 2010 and of its profit for the Guernsey law are set out in the Statement of Directors year then ended: Responsibilities on page 37. are in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU: and Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008. accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view, are in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, and comply with the Companies Deborah J Smith Guernsey Law, 2008.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, For and on behalf of the Company has not kept proper accounting records, or if we KPMG Channel Islands Limited have not received all the information and explanations we require Chartered Accountants for our audit.
Guernsey We read the other information accompanying the financial statements and consider whether it is consistent with those 24 May 2010 statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
