Ten largest investments Set out below are details of the ten largest investments in the portfolio and details of each project.
As at 31 March 2010, the largest investment the Home Office project accounted for 16.2% of the portfolio.
Directors Valuation at 31 March 2010 at 31 March 2009 PROJECT Valuation as a Valuation as a percentage of percentage of Directors portfolio Directors portfolio valuation valuation million million Directors Valuation m 509.6 445.7 Barnet Hospital 3.5% 4.1% Central Middlesex Hospital 4.1% 4.6% Colchester Garrison 8.8% 11.0% Dutch High Speed Rail Link 14.7% 18.6% GMPA Police Stations 3.5% 2.8% Highland Schools 3.5% Home Office 16.2% 18.3% Kemble Water 4.8% 4.1% Romford Hospital 4.9% West Middlesex Hospital 3.4% 4.0% Total 67.4% 67.5% Barnet Hospital Colchester Garrison The Barnet General Hospital project is a 33 year concession to The project is a 35 year concession to provide a new facility for design, construct, operate and maintain the rebuilding of Barnet the Secretary of State for Defence in Colchester, Essex, UK.
General Hospital in North London for the Wellhouse National Colchester Garrison provides accommodation for approximately Health Service Trust.
Financial close was in February 1999.
The 3,500 military and 750 civilian personnel.
The project is located project involved capital expenditure of approximately 65m.
on the original garrison site and partly on an adjacent brown field Construction was completed in March 2002. site owned by the Ministry of Defence.
Capital expenditure on the project was approximately 550m.
Construction was Barnet Hospital Project Limited a joint venture company formed completed in April 2008 which was five months ahead of the by Bouygues UK Limited and Ecovert FM Limited, both original programme.
subsidiaries of Bouygues Construction S. A. was responsible for the design and construction.
Ecovert South Limited, also a Catering, cleaning and transport services are provided by subsidiary of Bouygues Construction S. A. is responsible for Sodexo Defence Services Limited.
WS Atkins Facilities maintenance and Compass Contract Services U. K. Limited Management Limited is responsible for estate and grounds trading as Medirest is responsible for soft facilities maintenance, contract management and security, waste management catering, portering, cleaning etc.
Healthcare Services Limited has installed and is maintaining medical imaging equipment and new IT and telecommunications.
During the year significant savings were achieved for the project and the MOD through an innovative financing initiative.
52m Central Middlesex Hospital from surplus land sale proceeds was repaid to bondholders 2 years earlier than scheduled with a 0.5% repayment premium.
The project is a 33 year concession to design, construct, finance The difference between the 5.4% bond interest coupon and 1% and maintain new hospital facilities, as well as refurbishing some to 2% cash on deposit interest rates less transaction costs existing facilities, on the Central Middlesex Hospital site in North provided the cost saving, which was shared 50:50 with the client.
The unit provides 214 beds and three main theatres.
The project involved capital expenditure of Dutch High Speed Rail Link approximately 75m: financial close occurred in November 2003.
Construction completion was in March 2006.
The largest PPP project signed to date in the Netherlands, the Dutch high speed rail link provides a high-speed connection from The building and maintenance contractor is Central Middlesex Schiphol Airport to the Belgian border.
The HSL Zuid project, as it Hospital Project Limited, a joint venture company formed by is known locally, was developed for the Dutch Ministry of Bouygues UK Limited and Ecovert FM Limited, both Transport, Public Works and Waste Management and the Ministry subsidiaries of Bouygues Construction S. A. of Finance under a 25 year concession.
The project involves HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010 27 Analysis of the Groups Portfolio continued capital expenditure of over 625m and includes track, noise Home Office attenuation, signalling, power distributions and communications The project is a 29 year concession commissioned by the UK Home systems.
Financial close was in October 2001.
Office to build, finance, operate and maintain a new headquarters building to replace their existing office accommodation with Certificates of Availability have been issued for both the North purpose-built serviced offices in Westminster, London.
The project and Southern sections.
Maintenance obligations are carried out involved capital expenditure of approximately 200m and the by a joint venture comprising Siemens Nederland BV, Koninklijke demolition of the existing offices on a 4.3 acre site, followed by BAM NBM NV and Fluor Infrastructure BV.
the construction of a building comprising three purpose-built interconnecting office blocks to accommodate up to 3,450 staff.
High speed train services not the responsibility of the project Construction was completed in January 2005. commenced successfully in the year.
The services being provided include health and safety, cleaning, GMPA Police Stations catering and energy management.
Operations are managed This 82m project involved the design, build, financing and by Ecovert FM Limited a facilities management subsidiary operation of new facilities for the Greater Manchester Police of Bouygues.
Authority as part of a 29 year concession.
The new facilities are a new traffic headquarters and 16 new police stations four Kemble Water divisional headquarters, five sub-divisional headquarters and This is a participation of 30m in the junior term loan facility for seven local community police stations.
All the facilities have now Kemble Water, the vehicle set up to acquire RWE Thames Water been constructed and are fully operational.
Kemble Water acquired the whole of Thames Water from RWE, including the regulated UK water Nearly 3,000 police officers have been able to move from 53 old business and non-regulated businesses this includes Thames stations into the 17 new buildings.
The new buildings cover Waters property, commercial, and international businesses.
38,600 square metres of floor space.
Hard and soft facilities management services such as cleaning, grounds maintenance The regulated business supplies water to approximately 8 million and helpdesk are being supplied by John Laing Integrated people 3.4 million properties and sewerage services to Services Ltd, a subsidiary of John Laing plc.
approximately 13 million people 5.3 million properties.
Measured by customer numbers, it is currently the largest water and Highland Schools sewerage company in the UK.
The Highland Schools PFI project is a 30 year concession with the Highland Council to design, build and operate eleven urban Romford Hospital and rural schools with a total capital value of 143m.
The project This project involves the design, build and finance of a new comprises five primary schools, three secondary schools, a hospital the Queens Hospital in Romford, Essex, followed by combined primary and secondary school, and a special needs the maintenance of the hospital and the provision of non-clinical school.
This all new build concession runs until 2037. services and a Managed Equipment Service for a term of 36 years that ends in 2040.
The project involved capital expenditure Morrison Construction commenced the building phase in 2006 of approximately 211m and its construction was completed in on the 11 new schools and community facilities built through the October 2006 by Bovis Lend Lease Limited.
Highland Councils second Public Private Partnership PPP programme.
Construction was completed during the year.
Soft and Hard Facilities management is the responsibility of Sodexo Limited and the Medical Equipment Services are Facilities management is the responsibility of Morrison Facilities provided by Siemens plc.
Services and the project is financed through long term fixed-rate guaranteed senior secured bonds and a European Investment West Middlesex Hospital Bank loan.
The contractual payment mechanism is an availability The project is a 35 year concession to design, construct, finance, payment based on availability of accommodation facilities and operate and maintain a new 228 bed hospital in West Middlesex, the level of service performance.
Financial close occurred in January 2001 and the project involved capital expenditure of approximately 60m.
Construction All the schools have been designed in consultation with the was completed on time in June 2003. community to include a range of facilities which are available to the public.
These facilities include library provision, sports and Building management services comprise the repair and recreational facilities and community meeting rooms.
maintenance of plumbing and security systems as well as health and safety services.
Catering, laundry, cleaning, porterage and security services are also being provided.
Operations are being managed by Ecovert FM Limited, the facilities management subsidiary of Bouygues Construction S. A.
