Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 105 Corporate governance Responsibility of Directors Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements Directors declaration in relation to relevant audit information The following statement sets out the responsibilities of the Directors Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys in relation to the financial statements of both the Group and the auditors, each of the Directors confirms that: Company.
The reports of the independent auditors for the Group to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there is no and the Company set out their responsibilities in relation to those relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors financial statements.
are unaware: and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements he or she has taken all steps that a Director might reasonably for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of be expected to have taken in order to make himself or herself affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the year and of the profit or loss of the Group and the Company for the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors Directors responsibility statement are required to: The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge and belief that: select appropriate accounting policies and apply them the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the consistently: applicable accounting standards identified above, give a true make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit state whether applicable accounting standards have been or loss of the Company and the Group: and followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed the Directors report which incorporates the Business review and explained: and includes a fair review of the development and performance of prepare the financial statements on the going concern the business and the position of the Group and the Company, basis, unless they consider that to be inappropriate.
together with a description of the principal risks and The applicable accounting standards referred to above are: uncertainties that they face.
a United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles The names of the Directors are listed in this Directors report UK GAAP for the Company: and b International Financial and their details appear on the Board of Directors page.
Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and implemented in the UK for the Group.
Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability to any person in relation to this Annual Report except to the extent that The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company keeps such liability could arise under English law.
Accordingly, any liability sufficient accounting records to disclose with reasonable accuracy to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable misleading statement or omission shall be determined in accordance them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the with section 90A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, and that the Company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration The responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also on 23 February 2011 and signed on its behalf by: responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of theCompany and the Group and, in that context, having proper regard to the establishment of appropriate systems of internal control with a view to the prevention and detection of fraud and Richard Burrows Ben Stevens other irregularities.
Chairman Finance Director and CIO The Directors are required to prepare financial statements and to provide the auditors with every opportunity to take whatever stepsand undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider tobe appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on www.
com in accordance with the UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
The Directors consider that they have pursued the actions necessary to meet their responsibilities as set out in this statement.
