Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 113 Financial statements Notes on the accounts 1 Accounting policies the estimation of and accounting for retirement benefit costs.
The determination of the carrying value of assets and liabilities, Basis of Accounting as well as the charge for the year, and amounts recognised in The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance other comprehensive income, involves judgments made in with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted conjunction with independent actuaries.
These involve estimates by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act about uncertain future events based on the environment in 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
different countries, including life expectancy of scheme members, salary and pension increases, inflation and expected returns on The financial statements have been prepared under the historical assets, as well as discount rates and asset values at the year end.
cost convention except as described in the accounting policy below The assumptions used by the Group and sensitivity analysis are on financial instruments.
described in note 12: The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRSs the estimation of amounts to be recognised in respect of and IFRIC interpretations with effect from 1 January 2010. taxation and legal matters, and the estimation of other provisions for liabilities and charges are subject to uncertain future events, The revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IAS 27 may extend over several years and so the amount and or timing Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements change the may differ from current assumptions.
The accounting policy for accounting for business combinations and transactions with taxation is explained below and the recognised deferred tax assets non-controlling interests.
These revised standards are only and liabilities, together with a note of unrecognised amounts, are to beapplied prospectively and so there is no restatement of shown in note 6 b and note 13.
Other provisions for liabilities transactions prior to the effective date.
IFRS 3 Revised has had and charges are as set out in note 22.
The accounting policy no impact on the current period.
IAS 27 Revised was applied to oncontingent liabilities, which are not provided for, is set out the acquisition of certain non-controlling interests in the year below and the contingent liabilities of the Group are explained with the difference between the fair value of the consideration in note 30: paidand the carrying value of the non-controlling interest the definition of adjusting items, which are separately disclosed recogniseddirectly in equity.
Goodwill is no longer recognised as memorandum information, is explained below and the on acquisition of non-controlling interests where there is no impact of these on the calculation of adjusted earnings is change in control.
described in note 7: Also in accordance with IAS 27 Revised, losses in the current the estimation of the fair values of acquired net assets arising in year applicable to non-controlling interests, where their share a business combination under IFRS 3 Revised and the allocation of accumulated losses exceed their interest in the equity of a of the purchase consideration between the underlying net assets subsidiary, are no longer allocated to the owners of the parent acquired, including intangible assets other than goodwill, on except to the extent that the Group has a binding obligation thebasis of their fair values.
These estimates are prepared in to cover the losses.
conjunction with the advice of independent valuation experts Annual Improvements to IFRS issued in April 2009 introduce where appropriate.
The relevant transactions for 2009 are anumber of minor changes including revised disclosures under described in note 26: and IFRS 8.
As a result of this amendment, the Group no longer the exemptions taken under IFRS 1 on the first time adoption presents a measure of total assets for each reportable segment ofIFRS at 1 January 2004 and, in particular, those relating to as information on total assets and liabilities is not reported to goodwill on business combinations which are explained in thechief operating decision maker.
In addition, a number of other interpretations and revisions to existing standards have been issued and endorsed which have Such estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience had no effect on reported profit or equity or on the disclosures and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable in the in the financial statements.
circumstances and constitute managements best judgment at the date of the financial statements.
In the future, actual experience The preparation of the Group financial statements requires maydeviate from these estimates and assumptions, which could management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the affect the financial statements as the original estimates and reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and assumptions are modified, as appropriate, in the year in which thedisclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial thecircumstances change.
The key estimates and assumptions are set out in theaccounting policies below, together with the related notes Basis of consolidation totheaccounts.
The consolidated financial information includes the financial statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. and its subsidiary The most significant items include: undertakings, together with the Groups share of the results of the review of asset values, especially goodwill and impairment itsassociates and joint ventures.
The key assumptions used in respect of goodwill and impairment testing are the determination of cash-generating units, the long-term growth rate for cash flow projections and the rate used to discount the cash flow projections.
These are described in note 9: 114 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 1 Accounting policies continued results in a loss of control of a subsidiary undertaking, the loss of significant influence over an associated company or the loss of joint A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group, where control control over a joint venture, the cumulative amount of the related isthe power to govern the financial and operating policies of the foreign exchange differences deferred in the separate component entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities.
ofequity are recognised in the income statement when the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
These related exchange differences Associates and joint ventures comprise investments in undertakings, comprise the exchange differences on all amounts deemed to be which are not subsidiary undertakings, where the Groups interest part of the netinvestment in the undertaking, which are recycled inthe equity capital is long term and over whose operating and tothe incomestatement when a disposal occurs.
For partial financial policies the Group exercises a significant influence and, disposals ofsubsidiary undertakings the related exchange differences inthe case of joint ventures, has joint control.
They are accounted arereclassified within equity.
For all other partial disposals the for using the equity method.
proportional share of the related exchange differences is recycled The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period tothe income statement.
are included from the date of acquisition of a controlling interest Foreign currency transactions are initially recognised in the atwhich date, for the purposes of consolidation, the purchase functional currency of each entity in the Group using the exchange consideration is allocated between the underlying net assets rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains acquired, including intangible assets other than goodwill, on and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and thebasis of their fair value.
Similarly, the results of associates and from the translation of foreign currency assets and liabilities at year joint ventures are included from the date of acquiring significant end rates of exchange are recognised in the income statement, influence or, in the case of joint ventures, joint control.
except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges, on The results of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures inter-company net investment loans and qualifying net investment which have been sold during the year are included up to the date hedges.
Foreign exchange gains or losses recognised in the income ofdisposal.
The profit or loss on sale is calculated by reference to statement are included in profit from operations or net finance costs thenet asset value at the date of disposal, adjusted for purchased depending on the underlying transactions that gave rise to these goodwill previously consolidated in the balance sheet.
Up to 31 December 2009, where accumulated losses applicable Revenue to anon-controlling interest exceeded their interest in the equity Revenue principally comprises sales of cigarettes, cigars, leaf and of asubsidiary, the excess was allocated to the Groups interest in other tobacco products to external customers.
Revenue excludes duty, thesubsidiary, except to the extent that the minority had a binding excise and other taxes and is after deducting rebates, returns and obligation and was able to make an additional investment to cover other similar discounts.
Revenue is recognised when the significant the losses.
From 1 January 2010, losses in the current year applicable risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to a third party.
to non-controlling interests are not reallocated unless the Group has Retirement benefit costs a binding obligation to cover the losses.
The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution Inter-company balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains schemes.
The net deficit or surplus for each defined benefit pension arising from inter-company transactions, are eliminated in preparing scheme is calculated in accordance with IAS 19, based on the the consolidated financial statements.
present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheetdate less the fair value of the scheme assets adjusted, where Foreign currencies appropriate, for any surplus restrictions or the effect of minimum The functional currency of the Parent Company is sterling and this funding requirements.
isalso the presentation currency of the Group.
The income and cashflow statements of Group undertakings expressed in currencies Actuarial gains and losses, changes in unrecognised scheme surpluses other than sterling are translated to sterling using exchange rates and minimum funding requirements are recognised in full through applicable to the dates of the underlying transactions.
ratesof exchange in each year are used where the average rate Past service costs resulting from enhanced benefits are expensed approximates the relevant exchange rate at the date of the underlying over the period to vesting and if they vest immediately, then they transactions.
Assets and liabilities of Group undertakings are translated are recognised at that time in the income statement.
atthe applicable rates of exchange at the end of each year.
Forhyperinflationary countries, the financial statements in local The Group also has certain post-retirement healthcare schemes currency are adjusted to reflect the impact of local inflation prior andthey are accounted for on a similar basis to the defined benefit totranslation into sterling.
The differences between retained profits of overseas subsidiary For defined benefit schemes, the actuarial cost charged to profit undertakings, associates and joint ventures translated at average from operations consists of current service cost, interest cost, andclosing rates of exchange are taken to reserves, as are differences expected return on plan assets, past service cost and the impact arising on the retranslation to sterling using closing rates of exchange ofany settlements or curtailments.
of overseas net assets at the beginning of the year.
Any differences Some benefits are provided through defined contribution schemes that have arisen since 1 January 2004 are presented as a separate and payments to these are charged as an expense as they fall due.
As permitted under IFRS 1, any differences prior to that date are not included in this separate component of equity.
Where a disposal of an investment in a Group undertaking Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 115 Financial statements 1 Accounting policies continued Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is considered Share-based payments tohave an indefinite life subject to impairment reviews.
The Group has equity-settled and cash-settled share-based Anyimpairment of goodwill is recognised immediately in compensation plans.
theincome statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of a atthe date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date subsidiary, associate or joint venture over the Groups share of the ofthe equity-settled share-based payments is expensed over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill is stated at vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of awards that will cost less accumulated impairment losses and amortisation prior eventually vest.
For plans where vesting conditions are based on to 1January 2004. total shareholder returns, the fair value at date of grant reflects The Groups policy up to and including 1997 was to eliminate theseconditions, whereas earnings per share vesting conditions goodwill against reserves.
Goodwill acquired from 1998 to arereflected in the calculation of awards that will eventually vest 31December 2003 was capitalised and amortised over its useful over the vesting period.
For cash-settled share-based payments, economic life.
As permitted under IFRS 1, in respect of acquisitions aliability equal to the portion of the services received is recognised prior to 1 January 2004, the classification and accounting treatment atits current fair value determined at each balance sheet date.
of business combinations was not amended on transition to IFRS.
Fairvalue is measured by the use of the Black-Scholes option pricing Goodwill previously written off direct to reserves is not recycled model, except where vesting is dependent on market conditions to the income statement on the disposal of the subsidiary, associate when the Monte-Carlo option pricing model is used.
The expected or joint venture to which it relates.
life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Inrespect of associates and joint ventures, goodwill is included in the carrying value of the investment in the associated company or Research and development joint venture.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, Research expenditure is charged to income in the year in which it the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination is incurred.
Development expenditure is charged to income in the of the profit or loss on disposal.
year it is incurred, unless it meets the recognition criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Intangible assets other than goodwill The intangible assets shown on the Group balance sheet consist Taxation mainly of trademarks acquired by the Groups subsidiary Taxation is that chargeable on the profits for the period, together undertakings and computer software.
Acquired trademarks are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax laws and impairment.
Trademarks with indefinite lives are not amortised enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date in the but are reviewed annually for impairment.
Intangible assets other countries where the Groups subsidiaries, associates and joint than goodwill classified as held-for-sale are not amortised.
Other ventures operate and generate taxable income.
trademarks are amortised on a straight-line basis over their remaining Deferred taxation is provided in full using the liability method for useful lives, consistent with the pattern of economic benefits temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and expected to be received, which do not exceed 20years.
Any liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amount used impairments of trademarks are recognised in the income statement fortaxation purposes.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary but increases in trademark values are not recognised.
differences arising on investments in Group undertakings, except Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is and impairment, and is amortised on a straight-line basis over controlled by the Group and it is probable that it will not reverse in periods ranging from three years to seven years.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
As required under IAS 12, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or deferred tax liability is settled.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or changes in equity.
The Group has exposures in respect of the payment or recovery ofanumber of taxes.
Liabilities or assets for these payments or recoveries are recognised at such time as an outcome becomes probable and when the amount can reasonably be estimated.
116 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 1 Accounting policies continued A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash flows which are largely independent of the cash The investments in associates and joint ventures shown in the Group flows from other assets or groups of assets.
At the acquisition date, balance sheet include trademarks arising from the combination of any goodwill acquired is allocated to the relevant cash-generating Brown & Williamson B&W and R J Reynolds RJR in 2004 to form unit or group of cash-generating units expected to benefit from Reynolds American Inc. RAI, as well as those arising on the acquisition theacquisition for the purpose of impairment testing of goodwill.
As the combination of B&W and RJR for Impairment of financial assets the Group involved the partial disposal of B&W and an investment Financial assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date, or in RAI, fair values were assigned to trademarks formerly owned by whenever events indicate that the carrying amount may not be RJR but not to those formerly owned by B&W.
Most of the carrying recoverable.
In the case of equity investments classified as availablevalue of the trademarks relates to trademarks which are deemed for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the tohave indefinite lives and each trademark is subject to an annual investment below its cost is considered as an indicator that the impairment test.
Certain minor trademarks are being amortised over investment is impaired.
Inventories Property, plant and equipment Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Cost is based on the weighted average cost incurred in acquiring depreciation and impairment.
Depreciation is calculated on a inventories and bringing them to their existing location and straight-line basis to write off the assets over their useful economic condition, which will include raw materials, direct labour and life.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets classified overheads, where appropriate.
Net realisable value is the estimated as held-for-sale.
Freehold and leasehold property are depreciated at selling price less costs to completion and sale.
Tobacco inventories rates between 2.5 per cent and 4 per cent per annum, and plant and which have an operating cycle that exceeds 12 months are classified equipment at rates between 7 per cent and 25 per cent per annum.
as current assets, consistent with recognised industry practice.
Capitalised interest Financial instruments Borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the construction or production of intangible assets or plant, property Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant and equipment that takes a substantial period of time to get ready instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such for its intended use or sale, and for which the commencement date provisions.
Such assets and liabilities are classified as current if they for capitalisation is on or after 1 January 2009, are capitalised as are expected to be realised or settled within 12 months after the partof the cost of the asset, in accordance with IAS 23 Revised balance sheet date.
If not, they are classified as non-current.
The Groups previous policy was to expense such borrowing costs as they were incurred.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value, plus directly attributable transaction costs where applicable, Leased assets with subsequent measurement as set out below.
Assets where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance leases and Non-derivative financial assets are classified on initial recognition are included as part of property, plant and equipment.
Finance as available-for-sale investments, loans and receivables or cash and lease assets are initially recognised at an amount equal to the cash equivalents as follows: lower oftheir fair value and the present value of the minimum Available-for-sale investments: available-for-sale investments are lease payments at inception of the lease, then depreciated over those non-derivative financial assets that cannot be classified as the shorter of the lease term and their estimated useful lives.
loans and receivables or cash and cash equivalents.
Leasing payments consist of capital and finance charge elements and the finance element is charged to the income statement.
Loans and receivables: these are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the income active market.
statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Cash and cash equivalents: cash and cash equivalents include cash Where arrangements are entered into which, while they are not in in hand and deposits held on call, together with other short-term the legal form of a lease, are in substance a lease under IFRIC 4, then highly liquid investments including investments in certain money they are recognised on the same basis as the leased assets above.
Cash equivalents normally comprise instruments with Impairment of non-financial assets maturities of three months or less at date of acquisition.
In the cash Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events indicate that flowstatement, cash and cash equivalents are shown net of bank the carrying amount of a cash-generating unit may not be recoverable.
overdrafts, which are included as current borrowings in the liabilities In addition, assets that have indefinite useful lives are tested annually section on the balance sheet.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 117 Financial statements 1 Accounting policies continued for derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges, the changes in their fair values are Apart from available-for-sale investments, non-derivative financial recognised in the income statement in the period in which assets are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, theyarise.
subject to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to amounts.
These estimates for irrecoverable amounts are recognised document prospectively the relationship between the item being when there is objective evidence that the full amount receivable will hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to not be collected according to the original terms of the asset.
Such demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged evidence might include financial difficulties of the debtor, defaults of item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will payment or significant overdue balances.
For interest-bearing assets, be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing their carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
 periodically to ensure that the hedge has remained, sale investments are stated at fair value, with changes in fair value and is expected to remain, highly effective.
being recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
When such investments are derecognised e. g. through disposal or become Hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging instrument is impaired, the accumulated gains and losses, previously recognised in derecognised e. g. through expiry or disposal, or no longer qualifies other comprehensive income, are reclassified to the income statement for hedge accounting.
Where the hedged item is a highly probable within finance income.
Dividend and interest income on availableforecast transaction, the related gains and losses remain in equity for-sale investments are included within finance income when the until the transaction takes place, when they are reclassified to the Groups right to receive payments is established.
income statement in the same manner as for cash flow hedges as described above.
When a hedged future transaction is no longer Fair values for quoted investments are based on observable market expected to occur, any related gains and losses, previously recognised prices.
If there is no active market for a financial asset, the fair value in other comprehensive income, are immediately reclassified to the is established by using valuation techniques principally involving income statement.
Derivative fair value changes recognised in the income statement are Non-derivative financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using either reflected in arriving at profit from operations if the hedged the effective interest method.
For borrowings, their carrying value item is similarly reflected or in finance costs.
includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised issue costs.
Dividends Derivative financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised, Final dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are andsubsequently measured, at fair value, which includes accrued recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in interest receivable and payable where relevant.
Changes in their the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys fairvalues are recognised as follows: shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, while interim dividend for derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges, the distributions are recognised in the period in which the dividends changes in their fair values are recognised directly in other are declared and paid.
comprehensive income, to the extent that they are effective, Segmental analysis with the ineffective portion being recognised in the income The Group is organised and managed on the basis of its geographic statement.
Where the hedged item results in a non-financial regions.
These are the reportable segments for the Group as they asset, the accumulated gains and losses, previously recognised form the focus of the Groups internal reporting systems and are inother comprehensive income, are included in the initial thebasis used by the chief operating decision maker, identified carrying value of the asset basis adjustment and recognised asthe Management Board, for assessing performance and inthe income statement in the same periods as the hedged allocatingresources.
Where the underlying transaction does not result in such an asset, the accumulated gains and losses are reclassified to the The Group is a single product business providing cigarettes and income statement in the same periods as the hedged item: other tobacco products.
While the Group has clearly differentiated for derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges, the brands, global segmentation between a wide portfolio of brands is carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted for the fair value not part of the regular internally reported financial information.
changes attributable to the risk being hedged, with the The prices agreed between Group companies for intra-group sales corresponding entry being made in the income statement.
of materials, manufactured goods, charges for royalties, commissions, Thechanges in fair value of these derivatives are also recognised services and fees, are based on normal commercial practices which inthe income statement: would apply between independent businesses.
Royalty income, less for derivatives that are designated as hedges of net investments in related expenditure, is included in the region in which the licensor foreign operations, the changes in their fair values are recognised isbased.
directly in other comprehensive income, to the extent that they are effective, with the ineffective portion being recognised in the income statement.
Where non-derivatives such as foreign currency borrowings are designated as net investment hedges, the relevant exchange differences are similarly recognised.
The accumulated gains and losses are reclassified to the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of: and 118 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 1 Accounting policies continued Future changes to accounting policies Certain changes to IFRS will be applicable for the Group accounts Adjusting items in future years.
Set out below are those which are considered to Adjusting items are significant items in the profit from operations, affect the Group.
net finance costs, taxation and the Groups share of the post-tax IFRS 9 Financial Instruments has been issued.
This standard results of associates and joint ventures which individually or, if of a represents the first phase of the IASBs project to replace IAS 39 similar type, in aggregate, are relevant to an understanding of the Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and has Groups underlying financial performance.
While the disclosure of mandatory application for accounting periods beginning on or after adjusting items is not required by IFRS, these items are separately 1 January 2013.
In its current form, it sets out the classification and disclosed either as memorandum information on the face of the measurement criteria for financial assets and financial liabilities.
It income statement and in the segmental analyses, or in the notes requires all financial assets, including assets currently classified under tothe accounts as appropriate.
The Group believes that these items IAS 39 as available-for-sale, to be measured at fair value through areuseful to users of the Group financial statements in helping profit and loss unless the assets can be classified as held at amortised themtounderstand the underlying business performance and are cost.
Qualifying equity investments held at fair value may have their used toderive the Groups principal non-GAAP measure which is fair value changes taken through other comprehensive income by adjusted diluted earnings per share.
Where the fair value option for certain financial liabilities is Provisions applied, the portion of fair value changes representing own credit Provisions are recognised when either a legal or constructive obligation risk would be recognised through other comprehensive income as a result of a past event exists at the balance sheet date, it is rather than the income statement.
The Group does not use the probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required fairvalue option for financial liabilities.
The effect of applying the to settle the obligation and a reasonable estimate can be made standard in its current form is not considered to have a material of the amount of the obligation.
impact on the Groups reported profit or equity.
These changes havenot been endorsed by the European Union and will only become Contingent liabilities and contingent assets applicable once that endorsement has occurred.
Subsidiaries and associates and joint ventures companies are defendants in tobacco-related and other litigation.
Provision for this The Annual Improvements to IFRS issued in May 2010 have varying litigation would be made at such time as an unfavourable outcome application dates commencing with annual periods ending on or became probable and the amount could be reasonably estimated.
The main effect of these amendments is to amend certain disclosures regarding credit and other risks in respect of Contingent assets are possible assets whose existence will only be financial instruments.
These changes have not been endorsed by confirmed by future events not wholly within the control of the the European Union and will only become applicable once that entity and are not recognised as assets until the realisation of endorsement hasoccurred.
In addition, a number of other interpretations and revisions to The Group records its external legal fees and other external existing standards have been issued which will be applicable to defencecosts for tobacco-related and other litigation as these theGroup financial statements in future years and which will have costsare incurred.
no material effect on reported profit or equity or on the disclosures Repurchase of share capital in the financial statements.
When share capital is repurchased the amount of consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction from equity.
Repurchased shares which are not cancelled, or shares purchased for the employee share ownership trusts, are classified astreasury shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 119 Financial statements 2 Segmental analyses As the chief operating decision maker, the Management Board reviews external revenues and adjusted profit from operations to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources.
Interest income, interest expense and taxation are centrally managed and accordingly such items are not presented by segment as they are excluded from the measure of segment profitability.
The Management Board reviews current and prior year segmental revenue, adjusted profit from operations of subsidiaries and adjusted post-tax results of associates and joint ventures at constant rates of exchange.
The constant rate comparison provided for reporting segment information is based on a retranslation, at prior year exchange rates, of the current year results of the Groups overseas entities but, other than in exceptional circumstances, does not adjust for transactional gains and losses in operations which are generated by movements in exchange rates.
As a result, the 2010 segmental results were translated using the 2009 average rates of exchange.
The 2009 comparative figures are also stated at the 2009 average rates of exchange.
The analyses of revenue for the 12 months to 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009, based on location of sales, are as follows: 2010 2009 Revenue Translation Revenue Constant rates exchange Current rates Revenue m m m m Asia-Pacific 3,448 311 3,759 3,270 Americas 3,202 296 3,498 3,156 Western Europe 3,486 67 3,419 3,884 Eastern Europe 1,726 40 1,686 1,628 Africa and Middle East 2,401 120 2,521 2,270 Revenue 14,263 620 14,883 14,208 The analyses of profit from operations and the Groups share of the post-tax results of associates and joint ventures, reconciled to profit before taxation, are as follows: 2010 2009 Adjusted Adjusted segment segment Segment result result result Adjusted Constant Translation Current Adjusting Current segment Adjusting Segment rates exchange rates items rates result items result m m m m m m m m Asia-Pacific 1,195 137 1,332 56 1,276 1,148 59 1,089 Americas 1,248 134 1,382 36 1,346 1,186 51 1,135 Western Europe 1,081 27 1,054 236 818 994 188 806 Eastern Europe 428 70 358 358 409 16 393 Africa and Middle East 793 65 858 338 520 724 46 678 Profit from operations 4,745 239 4,984 666 4,318 4,461 360 4,101 Net finance costs 480 504 Asia-Pacific 194 14 208 9 199 148 148 Americas 407 5 412 63 349 391 58 333 Africa and Middle East 2 2 2 2 2 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 603 19 622 72 550 541 58 483 Profit before taxation 4,388 4,080 The adjustments to profit from operations and the Groups share of the post-tax results of associates and joint ventures are explained in notes 3 e to 3 h and in note 5, respectively.
Translation exchange in Eastern Europe includes exceptional transactional exchange losses in respect of the Groups subsidiary in Uzbekistan.
120 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 2 Segmental analyses continued Adjusted profit from operations at constant rates of 4,745 million 2009: 4,461 million excludes impairment of intangibles and property, plant and equipment, as well as amortisation of trademarks.
These are treated as adjusting items as explained in notes 3 b and 3 e to g and are excluded from segmental profit from operations at constant rates as follows: 2010 2009 Adjusting Adjusting items items Adjusted Adjusted comprising Depreciation, comprising depreciation depreciation impairment amortisation Adjusted impairment Depreciation, and and and and depreciation and amortisation amortisation Translation amortisation amortisation impairment and amortisation and Constant rates exchange Current rates of trademarks Current rates amortisation of trademarks impairment m m m m m m m m Asia-Pacific 91 7 98 26 124 112 21 133 Americas 98 9 107 107 104 18 122 Western Europe 125 1 124 104 228 124 96 220 Eastern Europe 50 1 51 51 53 7 60 Africa and Middle East 60 2 62 325 387 53 23 76 424 18 442 455 897 446 165 611 External revenue and non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and retirement benefit assets are analysed between the UK and all foreign countries at current rates of exchange as follows: United Kingdom All foreign countries Group 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Revenue is based on location of sale m m m m m m External revenue 103 83 14,780 14,125 14,883 14,208 United Kingdom All foreign countries Group 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m m m Intangible assets 110 65 12,348 12,167 12,458 12,232 Property, plant and equipment 159 130 2,958 2,880 3,117 3,010 Investments in associates and joint ventures 2,666 2,521 2,666 2,521 Included in the external revenue from foreign countries is 1,696 million 2009: 1,529 million attributable to Brazil, being the only subsidiary contributing more than 10 per cent of the Groups external revenue in 2010 and 2009.
The main acquisitions comprising the goodwill balance of 11,656 million 2009: 11,331 million in intangible assets is provided in note 9.
Included in investments in associates and jointventures are amounts of 1,872 million 2009: 1,805 million attributable to the investment in Reynolds American and 747 million 2009:670 million attributable to the investment in ITC.
Further information can be found in note 11. Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 121 Financial statements 2 Segmental analyses continued Segmental analysis of revenue and profit for 2010 for the regional structure change that will be applicable from 2011 Due to the decision to reduce the management structure from five regions to four regions from 1 January 2011, markets which currently comprise the Eastern Europe region will be merged into the Africa and Middle East region and the Western Europe region.
Russia, Ukraine, Moldova, Belarus, Caucasus and Central Asia will form part of the new Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa region EEMEA while Romania, Bulgaria, Serbia, Montenegro, Albania and Kosovo will become part of the Western Europe region.
The following analysis of revenue and adjusted profit from operations is being provided as additional information and will be the comparative information used by the Management Board in 2011 to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources.
2010 Revenue Current rates m Asia-Pacific 3,759 Americas 3,498 Western Europe 3,695 Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa 3,931 Revenue 14,883 2010 Adjusted segment profit Adjusting Segment result Current rates items Current rates m m m Asia-Pacific 1,332 56 1,276 Americas 1,382 36 1,346 Western Europe 1,103 236 867 Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa 1,167 338 829 Profit from operations 4,984 666 4,318 Net finance costs 480 Asia-Pacific 208 9 199 Americas 412 63 349 Western Europe Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa 2 2 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 622 72 550 Profit before taxation 4,388 The adjustments to profit from operations and the Groups share of the post-tax results of associates and joint ventures are explained in notes 3 e to 3 h and in note 5, respectively.
122 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 3 Profit from operations a Employee benefit costs 2010 2009 m m Wages and salaries 2,099 1,880 Social security costs 245 225 Other pension and retirement benefit costs note 12 119 137 Share-based payments note 27 87 75 2,550 2,317 b Depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs 2010 2009 m m Intangibles amortisation of trademarks note 3 f 62 58 amortisation of other intangibles 66 67 impairment 300 53 Property, plant and equipment depreciation 376 379 impairment 93 54 897 611 Impairment of goodwill and trademarks is as explained in note 3 g. Impairment in respect of other intangibles and property, plant and equipment are shown as part of restructuring costs see note 3 e. c Other operating income This represents income arising from the Groups activities which falls outside the definition of revenue and includes gains on disposal oftrademarks as well as property disposals, service fees and other shared costs charged to third parties, manufacturing fees and trademarkincome.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 123 Financial statements 3 Profit from operations continued d Other operating expenses include: 2010 2009 m m Research and development expenses excluding employee benefit costs and depreciation 55 51 Exchange differences 62 17 Rent of plant and equipment operating leases minimum lease payments 39 37 contingent rents 2 sublease payments 1 3 Rent of property operating leases minimum lease payments 84 83 contingent rents 1 1 sublease payments 2 3 Fees payable for audit services pursuant to legislation: fees payable to  LLP for Parent Company and Group audit 1.8 1.7 fees payable to other  firms and associates for local statutory and Group reporting audits 7.9 8.6 Audit fees payable to  firms and associates 9.7 10.3 Audit fees payable to other firms 0.4 0.5 Total audit fees payable 10.1 10.8 Fees payable to  firms and associates for other services: other services pursuant to statutory legislation 0.2 0.2 tax advisory services 5.6 4.3 tax compliance 1.0 1.2 services relating to information technology 2.1 1.2 other non-audit services 0.5 0.9 9.4 7.8 The total fees payable to  firms and associates included above are 19.1 million 2009: 18.1 million.
Total research and development costs including employee benefit costs and depreciation were 117 million 2009: 112 million.
As a result of restrictions on accessing foreign exchange at the official exchange rate in Uzbekistan, the Group has revalued monetary items, mostly comprising foreign currency payables, in its subsidiary in Uzbekistan at a more conservative rate.
This rate represents the rate at which management expects to settle these items and has resulted in the recognition of net exchange losses of 38 million.
These are included in exchange differences of 62 million within other operating expenses in 2010. e Restructuring and integration costs Restructuring costs reflect the costs incurred as a result of initiatives to improve the effectiveness and the efficiency of the Group as a globally integrated enterprise.
These initiatives include a review of the Groups manufacturing operations, overheads and indirect costs, organisational structure and systems and software used.
The costs of these initiatives together with the costs of integrating acquired businesses into existing operations, are included in profit from operations under the following headings: 2010 2009 m m Employee benefit costs 163 143 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs 100 107 Other operating expenses 68 61 Other operating income 20 7 311 304 124 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 3 Profit from operations continued Restructuring and integration costs in 2010 principally relate to: the continuation of factory closure and downsizing activities in Denmark and Australia respectively: the closure of the Jawornik factory in Poland, the Tire factory in Turkey and the Lecce factory in Italy.
The costs also cover a voluntary separation scheme and closure of the printing unit in Argentina and the continued integration of Bentoel into existing operations: as well as other restructuring initiatives directly related to improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the Group as a globally integrated enterprise.
These include the combining of the Groups businesses in Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands and charges for bringing employee benefit costs in the Groups subsidiary in Canada in line with the Groups global practices.
In addition, the Group has recognised impairment charges as a result of the continued review of its software assets in light of the development of global software solutions.
Restructuring and integration costs in 2010 also include a payment of US$21 million to Reynolds American relating to the early termination and settlement of all disputes at issue in respect of the Contract Manufacturing Agreement dated 30 July 2004, as explained in note 29.
Restructuring and integration costs in 2009 principally relate to: costs in respect of the planned closure of the Soeborg factory in Denmark: the planned downsizing of the manufacturing plant in Australia: the continued integration of ST, Tekel and Bentoel with existing operations: as well as other restructuring initiatives directly related to improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the Group as a globally integrated enterprise.
The costs for these other initiatives include redundancies, principally in respect of restructuring activities in the Groups subsidiary in Canada, and impairment charges for certain software assets where the development of global software solutions has resulted in these assets having minimal or limited future economic benefits.
Other operating income in 2010 includes gains from sale of surplus land and buildings in Turkey and Croatia as well as the release of deferred income from a disposal in 2007.
In 2009, other operating income also includes gains on property disposals and the release ofdeferred income from a disposal in 2007. f Amortisation of trademarks The acquisitions of Bentoel, Tekel and ST resulted in the capitalisation of trademarks which are amortised over their expected useful lives, which do not exceed 20 years.
The amortisation charge of 62 million 2009: 58 million is included in depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs in profit from operations.
g Impairment of goodwill and trademarks Goodwill and trademarks recognised as a result of the Tekel acquisition in 2008 have been impaired by 249 million and 44 million respectively.
Although cost saving initiatives in the acquisition plan have been delivered successfully, the impairment charge arises from intense pricing competition in 2010 following unforeseen and significant excise increases in Turkey in 2009 and further increases effective from January 2010 which resulted in the growth of illicit trade and a loss of volumes and market share.
The basis for determining the deterioration in the recoverable amounts of the trademarks and goodwill is explained in note 9. h Gains on disposal of businesses and trademarks The acquisition of the cigarette and snus businesses of Skandinavisk Tobakskompagni ST in 2008 was subject to regulatory approval which was received on the condition that the Group divest a small number of local trademarks, primarily in Norway.
The disposal of the trademarks was dealt with in two packages, with the first package sold and completed in February 2009.
In March 2009, contracts were exchanged in respect of the second package with completion in May 2009.
The total proceeds from the two packages resulted in a gain of 2 million which is included in other operating income in profit from operations for the year ended 31 December 2009. Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 125 Financial statements 4 Net finance costs 2010 2009 m m m m Finance costs interest payable 583 602 fair value changes 209 4 exchange differences 285 25 507 581 Finance income interest and dividend income 60 85 exchange differences 33 8 27 77 Net finance costs 480 504 Net finance costs comprise: Interest payable bank borrowings 81 80 finance leases 2 2 facility fees 8 4 other 492 516 583 602 Interest receivable 58 83 Dividend income 2 2 60 85 Fair value changes cash flow hedges transferred from equity 16 86 fair value changes on hedged items 78 7 fair value hedges 166 65 ineffective portion of fair value hedges 21 13 instruments held-for-trading 302 3 209 4 Exchange differences 252 17 43 13 480 504 IFRS requires derivatives which do not meet the tests for hedge accounting under IAS 39 to be classified as instruments held-for-trading with fair value changes included in the income statement.
These derivatives principally consist of other derivatives shown in note 16 d andforward foreign currency contracts which have not been designated as hedges due to their fair value changes offsetting with other components of net finance costs.
Other interest payable includes interest on the bonds and notes detailed in note 21.
Facility fees relate principally to the Groups central undrawn banking facility of 2 billion a 1.75 billion facility up to December 2010, as well as the Groups 450 million term loan facility a700 million facility up to December 2010.
Both facilities were renegotiated and agreed during December 2010.
Included within interest receivable is 1 million 2009: 3 million in respect of available-for-sale investments.
Included within dividend income is 2 million 2009: 2 million in respect of available-for-sale investments.
Included within exchange differences is a loss of 14 million 2009: 25 million loss in respect of items subject to fair value hedges.
126 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 5 Associates and joint ventures 2010 2009 Total Groups share Total Groups share m m m m Gross turnover including duty, excise and other taxes 12,834 4,924 11,506 4,477 Duty, excise and other taxes 4,205 1,620 3,687 1,431 Revenue 8,629 3,304 7,819 3,046 Profit from operations 2,473 938 2,183 843 Net finance costs 152 63 159 66 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 2,321 875 2,024 777 Taxation on ordinary activities 846 322 759 291 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 1,475 553 1,265 486 Attributable to: Owners of parent company 550 483 Non-controlling assets 3 3 553 486 Analysed as: adjusted share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 622 541 trademark amortisation and impairments 3 1 154 65 health plan credit 38 16 Canadian settlements 140 59 dilution in shareholding 30 9 restructuring costs 7 3 22 9 550 483 Dividends listed investments 460 328 unlisted investments 6 3 466 331 The share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures is after the following adjusting items which are excluded from the calculation of adjusted earnings per share as set out in note 7.
In the year ended 31 December 2010, Reynolds American recognised a trademark impairment charge of US$6 million as well as trademark amortisation of US$4 million.
The Groups share of these charges amounted to 1 million net of tax.
In the year ended 31 December 2010, a subsidiary of Reynolds American, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company Inc. RJRTC, entered into a comprehensive settlement agreement with the Canadian federal, provincial and territorial governments to resolve all the governments civil claims related to smuggling in Canada during the 1980s and 1990s.
As part of the civil settlement, RJRTC agreed to pay the governments CA$325 million.
In a separate matter, a subsidiary of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings Inc. Northern Brands International Inc. entered into a plea agreement with the Ministry of the Attorney General of Ontario.
As a result of its plea to one count of conspiracy to aid others in the sale and possession of contraband cigarettes in the early 1990s, Northern Brands paid a fine of CA$75 million.
The Groups share of these charges amounted to 59 million net of tax.
During the year, the Groups interest in ITC decreased from 31.92 per cent to 31.43 per cent as a result of ITC issuing ordinary shares under the Companys Employee Stock Option Scheme.
This dilution in the Groups share of ITC results in a charge of 9 million which, under IAS 28 Revised Investments in Associates, is treated as a partial disposal and included in the income statement.
Reynolds American also recognised restructuring charges in the year ended 31 December 2010 from the closure of one factory in August 2010 and the planned closure of another in mid 2011.
As a result of these actions, Reynolds American has recorded charges mostly relating to asset impairment and to a lesser extent, severance costs.
The Groups share of these charges amounted to 6 million net of tax.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 127 Financial statements 5 Associates and joint ventures continued In the year ended 31 December 2010, RJRTC received a payment of US$21 million as a result of the agreement to terminate early the Contract Manufacturing Agreement dated 30 July 2004 between RJRTC and BATUS Japan Inc. a wholly owned Group subsidiary, and settle all disputes at issue between the parties as explained in note 29.
The Groups share of this receipt amounted to 3 million net of tax and is treated as an adjusting item.
The receipt net of tax is included as part of restructuring costs in the table above.
In the year ended 31 December 2009, Reynolds American recognised a trademark impairment charge of US$394 million, triggered by the increase in federal excise taxes on tobacco products and changes in pricing.
It also recognised trademark amortisation of US$5 million.
The Groups share of these charges amounted to 65 million net of tax.
During 2009, Reynolds American reviewed its post-retirement medical plans resulting in a past service credit which is amortised under US GAAP.
However, under IFRS, it must be recognised in full in the income statement in 2009.
The Groups share of this credit amounted to 16 million net of tax.
Reynolds American also recognised a charge of US$56 million in 2009 in connection with severance and related costs of around 400 employees in order to better align staffing levels with business requirements and enable Reynolds Americans manufacturing operations to phase in new productivity programmes.
The Groups share of this charge amounted to 9 million net of tax.
6 Taxation on ordinary activities a Summary of tax on ordinary activities 2010 2009 m m UK corporation tax credit charge 16 16 Comprising: current year tax expense 16 594 adjustments in respect of prior periods 16 16 double taxation relief 16 594 Overseas tax 1,294 1,147 Comprising: current year tax expense 1,270 1,104 adjustments in respect of prior periods 24 43 Total current tax 1,278 1,163 Deferred tax 30 39 Comprising: deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 30 42 deferred tax relating to changes in tax rates 3 1,248 1,124 b Franked Investment Income Group Litigation Order British American Tobacco is the principal test claimant in an action in the United Kingdom against HM Revenue and Customs in the Franked Investment Income Group Litigation Order FII GLO.
There are 26 corporate groups in the FII GLO.
The case concerns the treatment for UKcorporate tax purposes of profits earned overseas and distributed to the UK.
The claim was filed in 2003 and the case was heard in the European Court of Justice ECJ in 2005 and a decision of the ECJ received in December 2006.
In July 2008, the case reverted to a trial in theUK High Court for the UK Court to determine how the principles of the ECJ decision should be applied in a UK context.
The High Court judgment in November 2008 concluded, amongst many other things, that dividends received from EU subsidiaries should be, and should have been, exempt from UK taxation.
It also concluded that certain dividends received before 5 April 1999 from the EU and, in some limited circumstances after 1993 from outside the EU, should have been treated as franked investment income with the consequence that advance corporation tax need not have been paid.
Claims for the repayment of UK tax incurred where the dividends were from the EU can be made back to 1973.
The tentative conclusion reached by the High Court would, if upheld, produce an estimated receivable of about 1.2 billion for British American Tobacco.
128 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 6 Taxation on ordinary activities continued The case was heard by the Court of Appeal in October 2009 and the judgment handed down on 23 February 2010.
The Court of Appeal has determined that various questions should be referred back to the ECJ for further clarification.
In addition, the Court determined that the claim should be restricted to six years and not cover claims dating back to 1973.
This time restriction would, if upheld, reduce the value of the claim to between zero and 10 million.
Based on advice received, the Company believes it has realistic prospects of success on further appeal.
The Company sought leave to appeal from the Supreme Court in the UK and the Supreme Court has agreed to hear the appeal on time limits although no date has yet been set for the hearing.
Several questions are to be referred back to the ECJ for further clarification.
No potential receipt has been recognised in the current year or the prior year, in the results of the Group, due to the uncertainty of the amounts and eventual outcome.
c Factors affecting the tax charge The taxation charge differs from the standard 28 per cent rate of corporation tax in the UK.
The major causes of this difference are listedbelow: 2010 2009 m % m % Profit before tax 4,388 4,080 Less: share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 550 483 3,838 3,597 Tax at 28% on the above 1,075 28.0 1,007 28.0 Factors affecting the tax rate: Tax at standard rates other than UK corporation tax rate 4 0.1 47 1.3 Other national tax charges 25 0.7 26 0.7 State and local taxes 52 1.4 52 1.4 Permanent differences 10 0.3 22 0.6 Overseas withholding taxes 123 3.2 91 2.5 Double taxation relief on UK profits 16 0.4 10 0.3 Unutilised tax losses 2 0.1 15 0.4 Adjustments in respect of previous periods 8 0.2 59 1.6 Net deferred tax credits at other tax rates 3 0.1 50 1.4 Deferred tax attributable to a increase in the rate of corporate income tax 3 0.1 1,248 32.5 1,124 31.1 Given the deterioration in the results of the Groups operations in Turkey as explained in note 3 g, the Group has also written off deferred tax assets of 35 million in respect of unutilised losses in Turkey in 2010.
This has been treated as an adjusting item in the adjusted earnings per share calculation as set out in note 7.
The tax charge for 2009 includes a one-off tax charge of 24 million following an adverse decision by the Australian Courts in December 2009.
This was in respect of a tax case pursued by the Australian Tax Office concerning the utilisation of capital losses.
During 2010, this adverse decision was upheld by the Full Federal Court of Australia.
The Group has now sought leave to appeal to the Australian High Court.
d Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income 2010 2009 m m Current tax 23 43 Deferred tax 24 28 Credited charged to other comprehensive income 1 71 The tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income is disclosed in note 20. Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 129 Financial statements 7 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are based on profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders of 2,879 million 2009: 2,713 million and1,983 million 2009: 1,980 million ordinary shares of 25p each, being the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year excluding shares held as treasury shares.
For the calculation of diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares in issue is increased to 1,994 million 2009:1,991million to reflect the potential dilutive effect of employee share schemes.
2010 2009 Weighted Weighted average average number of Earnings number of Earnings Earnings shares per share Earnings shares per share m m pence m m pence Basic earnings per share 2,879 1,983 145.2 2,713 1,980 137.0 Share options 11 0.8 11 0.7 Diluted earnings per share 2,879 1,994 144.4 2,713 1,991 136.3 Earnings have been affected by a number of adjusting items, which are described in notes 3, 5 and 6.
To illustrate the impact of these items, an adjusted earnings per share calculation is shown below.
Adjusted earnings per share calculation Diluted Basic 2010 2009 2010 2009 Earnings Earnings Earnings Earnings Earnings per share Earnings per share Earnings per share Earnings per share Notes m pence m pence m pence m pence Unadjusted earnings per share 2,879 144.4 2,713 136.3 2,879 145.2 2,713 137.0 Effect of restructuring and integration costs 3e 311 15.6 304 15.3 311 15.7 304 15.4 Tax and non-controlling interests on restructuring and integrationcosts 75 3.8 71 3.6 75 3.8 71 3.6 Effect of impairment of goodwill and trademarks 3g 293 14.7 293 14.8 Tax on impairment of goodwill and trademarks 58 2.9 58 2.9 Effect of deferred tax asset writtenoff 6c 35 1.8 35 1.8 Amortisation of trademarks 3f 62 3.1 58 2.9 62 3.1 58 2.9 Tax on amortisation oftrademarks 15 0.8 15 0.8 15 0.8 15 0.8 Effect of disposal of businesses and trademarks 3h 2 0.1 2 0.1 Tax relating to disposal of businesses and trademarks 1 0.1 1 0.1 Effect of associates' adjustingitems 5 72 3.6 58 2.9 72 3.6 58 2.9 Adjusted earnings per share 3,504 175.7 3,046 153.0 3,504 176.7 3,046 153.8 130 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 7 Earnings per share continued Headline earnings per share as required by the JSE Limited The presentation of headline earnings per share, as an alternative measure of earnings per share, is mandated under the JSE Listing Requirements.
It is calculated in accordance with Circular 3 2009 Headline Earnings, as issued by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Headline earnings per share are calculated as shown below: Diluted Basic 2010 2009 2010 2009 Earnings Earnings Earnings Earnings Earnings per share Earnings per share Earnings per share Earnings per share m pence m pence m pence m pence Unadjusted earnings per share 2,879 144.4 2,713 136.3 2,879 145.2 2,713 137.0 Effect of impairment of intangibles and property, plant and equipment 393 19.7 107 5.4 393 19.8 107 5.5 Tax and non-controlling interests on impairment of intangibles and property, plant and equipment 81 4.1 21 1.1 81 4.1 21 1.1 Effect of gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4 0.2 4 0.2 Effect of gains on disposal of non-current assets held-for-sale 16 0.8 16 0.8 Tax and non-controlling interests on disposal of non-current assets held-for-sale 3 0.1 3 0.1 Effect of disposal of businesses and trademarks 5 0.3 5 0.3 5 0.3 5 0.3 Tax and non-controlling interests on disposal of businesses and trademarks 2 0.1 1 0.1 2 0.1 1 0.1 Effect of gains reclassified from the available-for-sale reserve 3 0.2 3 0.2 Share of associates' trademark and other asset impairments net of tax 7 0.4 65 3.3 7 0.4 65 3.3 Dilution in shareholding in associate 9 0.5 9 0.5 Headline earnings per share 3,191 160.0 2,853 143.3 3,191 160.9 2,853 144.1 8 Dividends and other appropriations 2010 2009 Pence Pence per share m per share m Ordinary shares Interim 2010 paid 29 September 2010 33.2 662 2009 paid 29 September 2009 27.9 557 Final 2009 paid 6 May 2010 71.6 1,431 2008 paid 6 May 2009 61.6 1,241 104.8 2,093 89.5 1,798 The Directors have recommended to shareholders a final dividend of 81.0 pence per share for the year ended 31 December 2010.
If approved, this dividend will be paid to shareholders on 5 May 2011.
This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and therefore, in accordance with IAS 10, it has not been included as a liability in these Financial Statements.
The total estimated dividend to bepaid is 1,607 million which takes the total dividends declared in respect of 2010 to 2,269 million 2009: 1,988 million representing 114.2pence per share 2009: 99.5 pence per share.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 131 Financial statements 9 Intangible assets Assets in Computer Trademarks the course of Goodwill software and licences development Total m m m m m 1 January 2010 Cost 11,331 502 806 63 12,702 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 361 109 470 Net book value at 1 January 2010 11,331 141 697 63 12,232 Differences on exchange 574 1 9 1 567 Additions internal development 4 60 64 separately acquired 12 5 7 24 Reallocations 48 48 Amortisation charge 64 64 128 Impairment 249 7 44 300 Disposals 1 1 31 December 2010 Cost 11,656 551 802 83 13,092 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 417 217 634 Net book value at 31 December 2010 11,656 134 585 83 12,458 1 January 2009 Cost 11,391 388 758 85 12,622 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 251 53 304 Net book value at 1 January 2009 11,391 137 705 85 12,318 Differences on exchange 260 11 49 6 314 Additions internal development 30 10 40 acquisitions of subsidiaries and non-controlling interests 200 1 95 296 separately acquired 24 7 43 74 Reallocations 81 81 Amortisation charge 65 61 126 Impairment 54 54 Disposals 2 2 31 December 2009 Cost 11,331 502 806 63 12,702 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 361 109 470 Net book value at 31 December 2009 11,331 141 697 63 12,232 Included in computer software and assets in the course of development are internally developed assets with a carrying value of 150 million 2009: 138 million.
The costs of internally developed assets include capitalised expenses of employees working full time on software development projects, third party consultants as well as software licence fees from third party suppliers.
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and non-controlling interests in 2009 relate to the acquisition of Bentoel as explained in note 26.
Included in the net book value of trademarks and licences are trademarks relating to the acquisition of ST 412 million 2009: 469 million, Tekel 61 million 2009: 113 million and Bentoel 94 million 2009: 99 million.
As a result of a loss of volumes in 2010, the Tekel trademarks have been impaired by 44 million as explained in note 3 g. The recoverable amount of the Tekel trademarks has been determined on a value-in-use basis over their remaining useful economic lives applying the same assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount of the Groups Turkey cash-generating unit as described below.
The impairment charges for computer software in 2010 and 2009 are explained in note 3 e. 132 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 9 Intangible assets continued Impairment testing for intangible assets with indefinite lives including goodwill Goodwill of 11,656 million 2009: 11,331 million included in intangible assets in the balance sheet is mainly the result of the following acquisitions: Rothmans Group 5,176 million 2009: 4,833 million : Imperial Tobacco Canada 2,576 million 2009: 2,370 million : ETI Italy 1,412 million 2009: 1,463 million : ST principally Scandinavia 1,062 million 2009: 1,103 million : Tekel Turkey 333 million 2009: 579 million and Bentoel Indonesia 220 million 2009: 205 million.
The principal allocations of goodwill in the Rothmans acquisition are to the cash-generating units of Eastern and Western Europe, and South Africa, with the remainder mainly relating to operations in the domestic and export markets in the United Kingdom and operations in Asia-Pacific.
The goodwill on the ST transaction has been allocated between the cash-generating units of ST and Western Europe.
In 2010 and 2009, goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to 16 individual cash-generating units four in Western Europe, one in Eastern Europe, two in Africa and Middle East, five in Asia-Pacific and four in the Americas.
The carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to the cash-generating units of Canada 2,576 million 2009: 2,370 million, Italy 1,419million 2009: 1,471 million, Western Europe includes Rothmans and other acquisitions 1,214 million 2009: 1,208 million, Eastern Europe includes Rothmans and other acquisitions 1,070 million 2009: 1,062 million, ST principally Scandinavia 954 million 2009: 991 million, South Africa 1,069 million 2009: 932 million, Australia includes Rothmans and other acquisitions 877 million 2009: 746 million, Singapore 532 million 2009: 471 million, Malaysia 488 million 2009: 426 million and Turkey 333 million 2009: 579million are considered significant in comparison with the total carrying amount of goodwill.
The recoverable amount of all cash-generating units has been determined on a value-in-use basis.
The key assumptions for the recoverable amount of all units are the long-term growth rate and the discount rate.
The long-term growth rate used is purely for the impairment testing of goodwill under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and does not reflect long-term planning assumptions used by the Group for investment proposals or for any other assessments.
The discount rate is based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, taking intoaccount the cost of capital and borrowings, to which specific market-related premium adjustments are made.
These adjustments are derivedfrom external sources and are based on the spread between bonds or credit default swaps or similar indicators issued by the US or comparable governments and by the local government, adjusted for the Groups own credit market risk.
For ease of use and consistency in application, these results are periodically calibrated into bands based on internationally recognised credit ratings.
These assumptions have been applied to the individual cash flows of each unit as compiled by local management in the different markets.
The valuations use cash flows based on detailed financial budgets prepared by management covering a one year period, with growth in year 2 of 6 per cent.
Cash flows for the years 3 to 10 are extrapolated from year 2 cash flows at 5 per cent per annum, including 2 per cent inflation, whereafter a total growth rate of 2 per cent per annum has been assumed.
The extrapolated growth rates are considered conservative given the Groups history of growth, its well balanced portfolio of brands and the industry in which it operates.
The long-term real growth does not exceed the expected long-term average growth rate for the combined markets in which the cash-generating units operate.
In some instances, such as recent acquisitions or start-up ventures, the valuation is expanded to reflect the medium term plan of management, spanning five years or beyond.
The recoverable amount of the Turkey cash-generating unit has been determined on a value-in-use basis using a 10 year cash flow forecast with cash flows after year 10 extrapolated as described above.
A forecast period of 10 years is considered appropriate to take account of the assumptions of volume stabilisation in Turkey in the medium to longer term and the time period to improve the contribution of higher margin brands.
In addition the forecast assumes no further unforeseen significant increases in excise and the compound annual growth over the 10 year period is 3.2 per cent.
As explained in note 3 g, the carrying value of goodwill allocated to the Groups cash-generating unit of Turkey has been impaired by 249 million in 2010.
Pre-tax discount rates of between 7.8 per cent and 18.7 per cent 2009: 7.9 per cent to 18.7 per cent were used, based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, together with any premium applicable for economic and political risks.
The pre-tax discount rates used for the cash-generating units which are significant in comparison with the total carrying amount of goodwill are 9.7 per cent for Canada 2009: 9.7 per cent, 11.0 per cent for Italy 2009: 11.4 per cent, 9.3 per cent for Western Europe 2009: 9.3 per cent, 10.6 per cent for Eastern Europe 2009: 10.6 per cent, 8.7 per cent for ST principally Scandinavia 2009: 8.7 per cent, 11.5 per cent for South Africa 2009: 11.5 per cent, 9.3 per cent for Australia 2009: 9.3 per cent, 7.8 per cent for Singapore 2009: 7.9 per cent, 10.0 per cent for Malaysia 2009: 10.0 per cent and 11.9 per cent for Turkey 2009: 13.1 per cent.
Other than the impairment charge recognised in respect of Tekel goodwill, no other goodwill impairment charges were recognised in 2010 or 2009.
If discounted cash flows for the Turkey cash-generating unit should fall by 10 per cent, or the discount rate was increased at a post-tax rate of 1 per cent, there would be further impairment of 55 million and 69 million respectively.
If discounted cash flows for any of the other cash-generating units should fall by 10 per cent, or the discount rate was increased at a post-tax rate of 1 per cent, there would be no impairment.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 133 Financial statements 10 Property, plant and equipment Assets in the Freehold Leasehold Plant and course of property property equipment construction Total m m m m m 1 January 2010 Cost 1,101 237 4,466 336 6,140 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 421 95 2,614 3,130 Net book value at 1 January 2010 680 142 1,852 336 3,010 Differences on exchange 34 3 80 21 138 Additions separately acquired 20 6 137 354 517 Reallocations 30 5 307 342 Depreciation 30 7 344 381 Impairment 30 64 94 Disposals 3 8 37 48 Net reclassifications as held-for-sale 24 1 25 31 December 2010 Cost 1,144 250 4,820 369 6,583 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 467 109 2,890 3,466 Net book value at 31 December 2010 677 141 1,930 369 3,117 1 January 2009 Cost 1,014 257 4,565 316 6,152 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 351 95 2,630 3,076 Net book value at 1 January 2009 663 162 1,935 316 3,076 Differences on exchange 17 12 107 11 147 Additions separately acquired 23 4 139 305 471 acquisitions of subsidiaries 20 47 11 78 Reallocations 33 247 280 Depreciation 26 11 351 388 Impairment 16 36 52 Disposals 21 5 26 Net reclassifications as held-for-sale 1 1 2 31 December 2009 Cost 1,101 237 4,466 336 6,140 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 421 95 2,614 3,130 Net book value at 31 December 2009 680 142 1,852 336 3,010 Assets held under finance leases 31 December 2010 Cost 3 72 75 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 2 56 58 Net book value at 31 December 2010 1 16 17 31 December 2009 Cost 3 117 120 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 2 87 89 Net book value at 31 December 2009 1 30 31 134 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 10 Property, plant and equipment continued The Groups finance lease arrangements relate principally to the lease of vending machines by the Groups Japanese subsidiary.
Assets held under finance leases are secured under finance lease obligations included in note 21.
2010 2009 m m Cost of freehold land within freehold property on which no depreciation is provided 98 92 Leasehold property comprises net book value of long leasehold 106 102 net book value of short leasehold 35 40 141 142 Contracts placed for future expenditure 7 11 Bank borrowings are secured by property, plant and equipment to the value of 24 million 2009: 14 million.
11 Investments in associates and joint ventures 2010 2009 m m 1 January 2,521 2,552 Differences on exchange 105 258 Differences on exchange reclassified and reported in share of profit after taxation 2 Share of profit after taxation note 5 550 483 Dividends note 5 466 331 Actuarial losses gains relating to pensions and other post-retirement benefits note 20 54 61 Other equity movements 12 14 31 December 2,666 2,521 Non-current assets 4,278 3,984 Current assets 1,774 1,884 Non-current liabilities 1,801 1,980 Current liabilities 1,585 1,367 2,666 2,521 Reynolds American Inc. Group's share of market value 5,105 million 2009: 4,019 million 1,872 1,805 ITC Ltd. Group's share of market value 6,020 million 2009: 4,036 million 747 670 Other listed associates Group's share of market value 44 million 2009: 35 million 13 12 Unlisted 34 34 2,666 2,521 The Groups share of non-current assets above include 1,508 million 2009: 1,463 million of goodwill and 500 million 2009: 485 million of trademarks arising from the Reynolds American transaction in 2004.
In addition, the non-current assets above includes 664 million 2009: 653 million of goodwill and 310 million 2009: 302 million of trademarks arising from the acquisition of Conwood by Reynolds American in 2006.
Details of the Groups contingent liabilities are set out in note 30.
In addition to US litigation involving Group companies, which is covered by the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company RJRT indemnity referred to in note 30, Reynolds American Inc. RAI group companies are named inlitigation which does not involve Group companies.
While it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any particular case or of the amount of any possible adverse verdict, it is not impossible that the results of operations or cash flows of RAI, in particular quarterly or annual periods, could be materially affected by this and by the final outcome of any particular litigation.
However, having regard to the contingent liability disclosures on litigation made by RAI in its public financial reports, the Directors are satisfied with the carrying value included above for RAI.
The Groups share of the RAI results for the year to 31 December 2010 includes 50 million 2009: 33 million in respect of external legal fees and other external product liability defence costs.
Additional information on associates as well as principal subsidiary undertakings is provided in the Principal subsidiary undertakings and Principal associate undertakings sections to the Annual Report.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 135 Financial statements 12 Retirement benefit schemes The Groups subsidiary undertakings operate around 180 retirement benefit arrangements worldwide.
These arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned.
The majority of scheme members belong to defined benefit schemes, most of which are funded externally and many of which are closed to new entrants.
The Group also operates a number of definedcontribution schemes.
The liabilities arising in the defined benefit schemes are determined in accordance with the advice of independent, professionally qualified actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
All schemes are formally valued at least every three years.
The principal pension schemes are in the UK, Germany, Canada, the Netherlands and Switzerland.
Together these schemes account for 85per cent of the total obligations of the Groups defined benefit schemes.
In addition, the Group operates significant schemes in Canada which provide employees with certain other retirement benefits such as healthcare.
The liabilities in respect of these benefits are also assessed by qualified independent actuaries, applying the projected unit creditmethod.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m m m Present value of funded scheme liabilities 5,338 5,222 27 28 5,365 5,250 Fair value of funded scheme assets 5,114 4,618 20 16 5,134 4,634 224 604 7 12 231 616 Minimum funding obligations 29 75 29 75 Unrecognised funded scheme surpluses 51 52 51 52 304 731 7 12 311 743 Present value of unfunded scheme liabilities 174 148 163 134 337 282 Unrecognised past service cost 1 1 478 878 170 146 648 1,024 The above net liability is recognised in the balance sheet as follows: retirement benefit scheme liabilities 600 983 170 146 770 1,129 retirement benefit scheme assets 122 105 122 105 478 878 170 146 648 1,024 The total accumulated net actuarial losses taken through other comprehensive income at 31 December 2010 were 693 million 2009:886million for subsidiaries, and 350 million 2009: 296 million net of tax for associates and joint ventures.
In Jamaica, the pension scheme holds shares in Carreras Group Ltd a Group subsidiary with a fair value of 6 million 2009: 3 million.
136 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m m m Defined benefit schemes current service cost 69 65 1 3 70 68 interest cost 300 271 11 9 311 280 expected return on scheme assets 298 259 2 1 300 260 past service cost 4 17 4 17 settlements and curtailments 2 4 2 1 4 5 73 98 8 12 81 110 Defined contribution schemes 38 27 38 27 Total amount recognised in the income statement note 3 a 111 125 8 12 119 137 The above charges are recognised within employee benefit costs in 2010 and 2009 in note 3 a and include a credit of 2 million in 2010 2009: 11 million charge in respect of pension costs reported as part of the restructuring costs charged in arriving at profit from operations see note 3 e. The movements in scheme liabilities are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m m m Present value at 1 January 5,370 4,752 162 143 5,532 4,895 Exchange differences 104 86 13 6 117 80 Current service cost 72 68 1 3 73 71 Interest cost 304 277 11 10 315 287 Past service costs vested 4 16 4 16 Contributions by scheme members 3 3 3 3 Benefits paid 327 313 9 8 336 321 Settlements and curtailments 5 1 2 1 7 Acquisition of subsidiaries 12 12 Scheme changes 4 4 Actuarial losses gains 13 646 14 7 1 653 Present value at 31 December 5,512 5,370 190 162 5,702 5,532 Funded schemes 5,338 5,222 27 28 5,365 5,250 Unfunded schemes 174 148 163 134 337 282 5,512 5,370 190 162 5,702 5,532 The actuarial losses and gains in both years principally relate to changes in assumptions regarding discount rates and inflation rates, offset in 2010 by the effect of net experience gains.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 137 Financial statements 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued The movement in funded scheme assets are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 4,618 4,169 16 13 4,634 4,182 Exchange differences 93 94 3 2 96 92 Expected return on scheme assets 302 264 2 1 304 265 Company contributions 218 214 7 6 225 220 Contributions by scheme members 5 6 5 6 Benefits paid 316 298 8 7 324 305 Actuarial gains 194 357 1 194 358 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 5,114 4,618 20 16 5,134 4,634 The actuarial gains and losses in both years principally relate to movements in the market value of scheme assets.
Contributions to defined benefit schemes are determined after consultation with the respective trustees and actuaries of the individual externally funded schemes and taking into account regulatory requirements.
Contributions in 2011 are expected to be 197 million for pension schemes and 2 million for healthcare schemes, compared to 218million and 7 million respectively in 2010.
Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m m m Actual return on scheme assets 496 621 2 2 498 623 The movements in the unrecognised funded scheme surpluses are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m m m Unrecognised funded scheme surpluses at 1 January 52 61 52 61 Exchange differences 4 10 4 10 Movement in year 5 1 5 1 Unrecognised funded scheme surpluses at 31 December 51 52 51 52 The movement in minimum funding obligations are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m m m Minimum funding obligations at 1 January 75 75 Exchange differences 7 7 Movement in year 53 75 53 75 Minimum funding obligations at 31 December 29 75 29 75 Movements in unrecognised scheme surpluses and minimum funding obligations are recognised in other comprehensive income.
138 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued The principal actuarial assumptions weighted to reflect individual scheme differences used in the following principal countries are asfollows: UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland % % % % % 31 December 2010 Rate of increase in salaries 4.9 2.5 3.5 3.1 1.5 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.4 1.5 1.3 1.9 Nil Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.9 Nil Nil 1.9 Discount rate 5.4 4.8 4.7 5.1 3.0 General inflation 3.4 1.5 2.5 1.9 0.4 For healthcare inflation in Canada, the assumption is 9.0 per cent reducing to 5.0 per cent by 2018.
For the remaining pension schemes, typical assumptions are that real salary increases will be from 0 per cent to 4 per cent per annum and discount rates will be from 1 per cent to 8 per cent above inflation.
Pension increases, where allowed for, are generally assumed to be in line with inflation.
UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland % % % % % 31 December 2009 Rate of increase in salaries 5.0 2.5 4.0 3.1 1.6 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.5 1.5 Nil 1.9 Nil Rate of increase in deferred pensions 3.5 Nil Nil 1.9 Discount rate 5.7 5.3 5.4 5.2 3.5 General inflation 3.5 1.5 3.0 1.9 1.0 For healthcare inflation in Canada, the assumption is 9.5 per cent reducing to 5.0 per cent by 2018.
For the remaining pension schemes, typical assumptions are that real salary increases will be from 0 per cent to 5 per cent per annum and discount rates will be from 1 per cent to 7 per cent above inflation.
Discount rates are determined by reference to normal yields on high quality corporate bonds at the balance sheet date.
For countries where there is not a deep market in such corporate bonds, the yield on government bonds is used.
Mortality assumptions are subject to regular review.
In the UK, Canada, Germany and Switzerland the same tables were used for both years.
In the UK, for post-retirement mortality assumptions the PXA92 year of birth table rated up two years for active and deferred members, with a 1.2 per cent underpin on future improvements and the PXA92 year of birth table rated up three years for current pensioners with no underpin on future improvements, all with the medium cohort effect, have been used.
In Canada UP94 tables, in Germany Heubeck tables 2005G and in Switzerland EVK 2000 mortality tables have been used.
In the Netherlands AG Prognosetafel 2010-2060 mortality tables have been used 2009: AG GBM V 2005-2050 tables.
Based on the above, the weighted average life expectancy, in years, for mortality tables used to determine benefit obligations is as follows: UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female 31 December 2010 Member age 65 current life expectancy 19.6 22.4 18.3 22.4 19.7 22.1 19.7 24.5 17.8 20.6 Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 23.3 26.7 21.0 25.0 21.2 22.9 21.3 24.8 20.6 23.3 31 December 2009 Member age 65 current life expectancy 19.6 22.4 18.2 22.3 19.5 22.0 18.1 21.1 17.8 20.6 Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 23.2 26.6 20.9 24.9 21.1 22.8 19.8 21.9 20.6 23.3 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 139 Financial statements 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued The expected rates of return on scheme assets in the following principal countries are as follows: UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland % % % % % 31 December 2010 Equities 7.2 8.0 9.0 7.6 7.2 Bonds 4.8 5.0 4.0 4.2 2.7 Property 7.2 5.5 6.1 5.3 Other assets 7.2 Nil 4.0 1.7 For the remaining pension schemes, typical expected long-term real rates of return ranged from 1 per cent to 11 per cent.
UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland % % % % % 31 December 2009 Equities 7.5 8.0 9.0 7.7 7.2 Bonds 5.1 5.0 4.5 4.1 3.0 Property 7.5 5.5 6.6 4.5 Other assets 7.5 Nil 3.8 5.5 For the remaining pension schemes, typical expected long-term real rates of return ranged from 1 per cent to 10 per cent.
Expected rates of return are determined taking into account the current level of expected returns on risk-free investments, the historical level of risk premium associated with other invested assets, and the expectations for future returns on such assets.
140 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued Valuation of post-retirement schemes involves judgments about uncertain future events.
Sensitivities in respect of the key assumptions used to measure the principal pension schemes as at 31 December 2010 are set out below.
These sensitivities show the hypothetical impact of achange in each of the listed assumptions in isolation, with the exception of the sensitivity to inflation which incorporates the impact of certain correlating assumptions such as salary increases.
While each of these sensitivities holds all other assumptions constant, in practice such assumptions rarely change in isolation and the impacts may offset to some extent.
1 year 1 year 0.25 percentage 0.25 percentage increase decrease point increase point decrease m m m m Rate of mortality decrease increase in profit before taxation 7 7 increase decrease of scheme liabilities 119 121 Rate of inflation decrease increase in profit before taxation 9 8 increase decrease of scheme liabilities 116 113 Discount rate increase decrease in profit before taxation 2 2 decrease increase of scheme liabilities 141 148 Expected return on scheme assets increase decrease in profit before taxation 10 10 2.5 percentage 2.5 percentage point increase point decrease m m Market value of scheme assets increase decrease in profit before taxation 6 6 increase decrease of scheme assets 103 103 The effect on the profit before taxation reflects the impact on current service cost, interest cost and expected return on scheme assets where relevant, for 2011.
The effect on scheme assets and liabilities is as at 31 December 2010.
A 1 percentage point change in healthcare inflation would have the following effects: 1 percentage 1 percentage point increase point decrease m m 31 December 2010 Effect on total of current service cost and interest cost 1 1 Effect on healthcare scheme liabilities 24 20 The history of the present value of the scheme liabilities, fair value of the scheme assets, the scheme net deficits and experience gains and losses are as follows: 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m Historical information Scheme liabilities 5,702 5,532 4,895 4,497 4,421 Scheme assets 5,134 4,634 4,182 4,223 3,950 Scheme net deficits 568 898 713 274 471 Experience gains losses on scheme liabilities 191 75 156 6 35 Experience gains losses on scheme assets 194 358 857 94 141 Experience losses and gains on scheme liabilities are presented as part of actuarial gains and losses.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 141 Financial statements 13 Deferred tax Deferred tax assets comprise: Excess of depreciation Other over capital Retirement Fair value temporary Stock relief allowances Tax losses benefits losses gains differences Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 33 62 51 109 6 268 529 Exchange differences 1 2 6 1 13 21 Credited charged to the income statement 2 28 15 20 13 4 Write-off of unutilised losses in Turkey note 6 c 35 35 Credited charged to other comprehensive income 2 14 19 9 22 Other 3 8 3 28 36 At 31 December 2010 31 70 42 117 4 313 577 At 1 January 2009 29 56 64 144 17 245 555 Exchange differences 1 4 5 5 2 17 Credited charged to the income statement 5 11 9 8 14 13 Charged credited to other comprehensive income 4 16 6 17 35 Other 1 3 6 3 26 13 At 31 December 2009 33 62 51 109 6 268 529 Deferred tax liabilities comprise: Excess of capital Undistributed allowances earnings of Other over associates and Retirement Fair value temporary Stock relief depreciation subsidiaries benefits losses gains differences Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 8 215 161 117 1 204 706 Exchange differences 1 7 6 3 1 12 Credited charged to the income statement 6 38 7 7 28 60 Credited to other comprehensiveincome 2 2 Other 3 11 6 2 1 6 19 At 31 December 2010 12 195 166 117 2 183 675 At 1 January 2009 13 207 160 162 1 219 762 Exchange differences 12 6 14 21 53 Credited charged to the income statement 5 19 8 21 26 25 Credited charged to other comprehensive income 8 2 3 7 Subsidiaries acquired 31 31 Other 1 1 2 2 2 2 At 31 December 2009 8 215 161 117 1 204 706 2010 2009 m m Net deferred tax liabilities 98 177 142 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 13 Deferred tax continued The net deferred tax liabilities are reflected in the Group balance sheet as follows, after offsetting assets and liabilities where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and where the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
2010 2009 m m Deferred tax assets 411 350 Deferred tax liabilities 509 527 98 177 Deferred tax expected to be recovered within 12 months: 2010 2009 m m Deferred tax assets 162 99 Deferred tax liabilities 121 95 41 4 At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of 421 million 2009: 597 million which have no expiry date and unused tax losses of 538 million 2009: 331 million which will expire within the next 10 years.
No amount of deferred tax has been recognised in respect of these unused losses.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has not recognised a deferred tax asset in respect of deductible temporary differences of 795 million 2009: 1,092 million.
These unrecognised deductible temporary differences have no expiry date.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax credits of 80 million 2009: 80 million which have no expiry date.
No amount of deferred tax has been recognised in respect of these unused tax credits.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of undistributed earnings of subsidiaries which would be subject to dividend withholding tax was 2 billion 2009: 2 billion.
No liability has been recognised in respect of this withholding tax because the Group is in a position to control the timing of these distributions and it is probable that these distributions will not be made in the foreseeable future.
14 Trade and other receivables 2010 2009 m m Trade receivables 1,831 1,732 Loans and other receivables 644 609 Prepayments and accrued income 206 174 2,681 2,515 Current 2,409 2,344 Non-current 272 171 2,681 2,515 Amounts receivable from related parties including associated undertakings are shown in note 29.
Trade and other receivables have been reported in the balance sheet net of allowances as follows: 2010 2009 m m Gross trade and other receivables 2,741 2,586 Allowance account 60 71 Net trade and other receivables per balance sheet 2,681 2,515 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 143 Financial statements 14 Trade and other receivables continued The movements in the allowance account are as follows: 2010 2009 m m 1 January 71 74 Differences on exchange 3 1 Provided in the year 8 21 Amounts reversed during the year 8 5 Amounts in respect of receivables written off 14 20 31 December 60 71 Impairment of trade receivables, including write-offs and allowances, charged during the year is included as part of other operating expenses.
For 2010, the net impairment charged was 3 million 2009: 24 million of which nil 2009: 16 million, is reflected in the above table.
As at 31 December 2010, trade and other receivables of 58 million 2009: 57 million were past their contractual payment date but not impaired.
These relate to a number of external parties where there is no expectation of default.
The aged analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Less than three months 52 39 Between three and six months 4 8 Between six months and one year 2 6 Greater than one year 4 The Group holds bank guarantees, other guarantees and credit insurance in respect of some of the past due debtor balances.
Trade and other receivables are predominantly denominated in the functional currencies of subsidiary undertakings apart from the following: 2010 2009 m m US dollar 126 118 UK sterling 108 92 Euro 29 30 Other currencies 39 52 Trade and other receivables also include certain interest-bearing amounts and their effective interest rates are as follows: 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m % % Euro 3 4 4.0 4.0 Other currencies 11 12 7.4 7.8 There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other receivables and their fair value, due to the short-term duration of the majority of trade and other receivables.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the Grouphas a large number of internationally dispersed customers.
144 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 15 Available-for-sale investments 2010 2009 m m 1 January 83 106 Differences on exchange 1 2 Additions and advances 1 251 Revaluations 4 3 Disposals and repayments 275 31 December 87 83 Current 58 57 Non-current 29 26 87 83 The classification of these investments under the IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy is given in note 24.
Investments have the following maturities: As per balance sheet 2010 2009 m m Equity investments 30 28 Non-equity investments within one year 44 44 beyond one year and within two years 11 6 beyond two years and within three years 1 5 beyond five years 1 87 83 There is no material difference between the maturity profile of investments in the table above and the maturity profile on a contractual gross basis where the values in each year include the investments maturing in that year together with forecast interest receipts on all investments which are due for all or part of that year.
Investments are denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary undertaking or other currencies as shown below: 2010 2009 m m Functional currencies 83 79 US dollar 2 2 Other currencies 2 2 87 83 Non-equity investments of 57 million 2009: 55 million are principally denominated in UK sterling and have an effective interest rate of 1.4 per cent 2009: 4 per cent.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 145 Financial statements 16 Derivative financial instruments The fair values of derivatives are determined based on market data primarily yield curves, implied volatilities and exchange rates to calculate the present value of all estimated flows associated with each derivative at the balance sheet date.
In the absence of sufficient market data, fair values would be based on the quoted market price of similar derivatives.
The classification of these assets and liabilities under the IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy is given in note 24.
2010 2009 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Fair value hedges interest rate swaps 139 8 108 1 cross-currency swaps 5 51 5 79 Cash flow hedges forward foreign currency contracts 36 96 28 38 Net investment hedges forward foreign currency contracts 52 60 59 39 Cash flow hedges and net investment hedges bifurcated cross-currency swaps 11 10 Held-for-trading forward foreign currency contracts 21 92 31 50 others 9 12 8 14 Total 273 319 249 221 Current 145 227 156 127 Non-current 128 92 93 94 273 319 249 221 Derivatives in respect of net debt 171 149 149 127 other 102 170 100 94 273 319 249 221 As explained in note 4, some derivative financial instruments are not designated as hedges and so are required to be classified as held-for-trading.
146 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 16 Derivative financial instruments continued The maturity dates of all derivative financial instruments as recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 2010 2009 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Within one year 145 227 156 127 Between one and two years 11 18 7 2 Between two and three years 36 5 23 Between three and four years 31 31 6 Between four and five years 4 2 Beyond five years 50 69 28 84 273 319 249 221 For cash flow hedges, including bifurcated hedges, the timing of expected cash flows is as follows: 2010 2009 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Within one year 75 77 33 36 Between one and two years 2 18 50 2 Between two and three years 1 2 77 96 85 38 Less: bifurcated cross-currency swap designated as a net investment hedge 30 47 47 96 38 38 The Group has a receive 465 million fixed rate pay DKK3,468 million fixed rate cross-currency swap which has been bifurcated into a receive 465 million fixed rate pay 368 million fixed rate cross-currency swap designated as a cash flow hedge and a receive 368 million fixed rate pay DKK3,468 million fixed rate cross-currency swap designated as a net investment hedge.
The above table includes the timing of expected cash flows on the bifurcated cross-currency swap designated as a cash flow hedge.
The Groups cash flow hedges are principally in respect of sales or purchases of inventory and certain debt instruments.
The timing of expected cash flows in respect of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is broadly expected to be comparable to the timing of when the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 147 Financial statements 16 Derivative financial instruments continued The tables below set out the maturities of the Groups derivative financial instruments on an undiscounted contractual basis, based on spot rates.
The maturity dates of all gross settled derivative financial instruments are as follows: 2010 2009 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Inflow Outflow Inflow Outflow Inflow Outflow Inflow Outflow m m m m m m m m Within one year forward contracts 4,182 4,075 6,987 7,219 4,437 4,327 4,769 4,904 cross-currency swaps 430 419 18 8 25 26 18 8 other 1,379 1,373 1,371 1,381 1,282 1,276 1,273 1,284 Between one and two years forward contracts 167 164 364 378 270 261 167 168 cross-currency swaps 1 18 9 446 435 18 13 Between two and three years forward contracts 39 40 44 41 14 13 cross-currency swaps 1 18 14 1 1 18 17 Between three and four years cross-currency swaps 1 1 18 16 1 1 18 18 Between four and five years cross-currency swaps 1 1 18 18 1 1 18 19 Beyond five years cross-currency swaps 20 16 343 419 22 17 361 458 6,182 6,049 9,194 9,502 6,529 6,386 6,674 6,902 The maturity dates of net settled derivative financial instruments are as follows: 2010 2009 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Within one year 54 1 43 10 Between one and two years 40 7 35 2 Between two and three years 19 2 18 6 Between three and four years 15 1 3 7 Between four and five years 8 3 3 7 Beyond five years 22 32 15 158 26 117 8 The above analysis of derivatives settled on a net basis primarily relates to the Groups interest rate swaps.
In summary by type, the fair value of derivative financial instruments is as follows: 2010 2009 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Interest rate swaps 139 8 108 1 Cross-currency swaps 16 51 15 79 Forward foreign currency contracts 109 248 118 127 Others 9 12 8 14 273 319 249 221 148 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 16 Derivative financial instruments continued a Interest rate swaps 2010 Interest rate % Maturity Principal Assets Liabilities date currency m m Original Swapped m m Fixed to floating 2012 EUR 337 289 3.6 note a 14 2013 EUR 400 343 5.1 note a 31 2013 GBP 150 150 5.8 note a 12 2014 GBP 500 500 6.0 note a 20 2014 GBP 250 250 6.0 note a 20 2019 GBP 250 250 6.4 note a 39 2020 EUR 600 514 4.0 note a 8 Floating to fixed 2017 EUR 600 514 note a 3.7 3 139 8 2009 Interest rate % Maturity Principal Assets Liabilities date currency m m Original Swapped m m Fixed to floating 2012 EUR 750 666 3.6 note a 33 2013 EUR 400 355 5.1 note a 31 2013 GBP 150 150 5.8 note a 8 2014 GBP 500 500 6.0 note a 1 2014 GBP 250 250 6.0 note a 11 2015 EUR 650 578 4.9 note a 1 2019 GBP 250 250 6.4 note a 24 108 1 Note a : The floating rate interest rates are based on LIBOR or local equivalent plus a margin ranging between 35 and 268 basis points 2009: 32 and 268 basis points.
These swaps have been used to manage the interest rate profile of external borrowings and are reflected in the repricing table in note 21. b Cross-currency swaps 2010 Principal Principal Interest original Interest swapped Maturity Original rate currency Swapped rate currency Assets Liabilities date currency % m m currency % m m m m Fixed to fixed 2011 EUR 5.9 465 398 DKK 6.2 3,468 399 11 Fixed to floating 2016 GBP 5.5 325 325 EUR note b 473 405 51 2019 EUR 4.6 20 17 USD note b 22 14 5 16 51 2009 Principal Principal Interest original Interest swapped Maturity Original rate currency Swapped rate currency Assets Liabilities date currency % m m currency % m m m m Fixed to fixed 2011 EUR 5.9 465 413 DKK 6.2 3,468 414 10 Fixed to floating 2016 GBP 5.5 325 325 EUR note b 473 420 79 2019 EUR 4.6 20 18 USD note b 22 14 5 15 79 Note b : The floating rate interest rates are based on LIBOR or local equivalent plus a margin ranging between 82 and 83 basis points for 2010 and 2009. Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 149 Financial statements 16 Derivative financial instruments continued c Forward foreign currency contracts Forward foreign currency contracts are denominated in the following currencies: Fair values of assets 2010 2009 Currencies purchased forward Currencies purchased forward GBP USD EUR Others Total GBP USD EUR Others Total m m m m m m m m m m Currencies sold forward AUD 3 3 EUR 11 10 4 25 29 5 1 35 GBP 5 10 14 29 2 1 5 8 JPY 11 11 RUR 1 1 USD 36 2 7 45 46 1 3 50 Other currencies 6 1 2 1 10 9 1 10 53 16 14 26 109 87 19 3 9 118 Fair values of liabilities 2010 2009 Currencies purchased forward Currencies purchased forward GBP USD EUR Others Total GBP USD EUR Others Total m m m m m m m m m m Currencies sold forward AUD 37 6 1 44 11 5 1 17 BRL 4 4 CAD 15 2 17 17 2 19 CHF 24 9 33 3 1 4 EUR 27 6 1 34 7 7 14 GBP 6 2 8 2 7 2 11 JPY 52 52 6 6 NOK 4 4 4 1 5 SGD 2 2 USD 13 1 14 13 1 1 15 ZAR 22 1 23 18 1 1 20 Other currencies 8 2 4 1 15 3 5 6 14 146 78 22 2 248 74 28 21 4 127 150 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 16 Derivative financial instruments continued Forward foreign currency contracts have been used to hedge both internal and external forecast transactions as well as the hedging of internal and external assets and liabilities.
Certain contracts were used to manage the currency profile of external borrowings and are reflected in the currency table in note 21, and their nominal values are as follows: 2010 2009 Purchase Sell Purchase Sell m m m m Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell CHF 181 189 167 165 Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell CAD 292 299 401 413 Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell AUD 1,074 1,048 942 947 Forward contracts to purchase EUR, sell DKK 177 177 Forward contracts to purchase EUR, sell SEK 130 132 175 177 Forward contracts to purchase EUR, sell NOK 160 164 156 160 Forward contracts to purchase EUR, sell GBP 372 367 218 221 d Others 2010 2009 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Others: Bund forwards note i 5 7 4 7 Interest derivative note ii 5 7 Sinking fund policy note iii 4 4 9 12 8 14 Notes: i Forward contracts to purchase and sell German government securities with a nominal value of 1.6 billion 2009: 1.4 billion taken out to manage internal financing arrangements and maturing within one year.
ii Remaining impact of an interest derivative with a nominal value of 1 billion maturing in 2013. iii Investment in sinking fund policy with a nominal value of ZAR 33 million 2009: ZAR 46 million.
17 Inventories 2010 2009 m m Raw materials and consumables 1,893 1,587 Finished goods and work in progress 1,531 1,443 Goods purchased for resale 184 231 3,608 3,261 Inventories pledged as security for liabilities amount to 17 million 2009: 10 million.
Write-offs taken to other operating expenses in the Group income statement comprise 45 million 2009: 63 million, including amounts relating to restructuring costs.
18 Income tax receivable and payable Income tax balances shown on the Group balance sheet as current assets and current liabilities, while subject to some uncertainty as to the extent and timing of cash flows, are largely expected to be received or paid within 12 months at the balance sheet date for both 2010 and 2009. Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 151 Financial statements 19 Cash and cash equivalents 2010 2009 m m Cash and bank balances 943 965 Cash equivalents 1,386 1,196 2,329 2,161 Cash equivalents mainly comprise short-term deposits and investments in money market funds with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary undertaking or other currencies as shown below: 2010 2009 m m Functional currency 2,131 1,687 US dollar 102 128 UK sterling 10 6 Euro 14 262 Other currencies 72 78 2,329 2,161 The currency in which cash and cash equivalents are held, together with the effective interest rates applicable to cash and cash equivalents are as follows: Values Rates 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m % % US dollar 305 221 0.8 0.9 UK sterling 652 437 0.5 0.4 Euro 95 340 0.4 0.4 Canadian dollar 3 43 1.0 0.4 Australian dollar 86 53 4.5 3.3 Other currencies 1,188 1,067 5.3 5.3 2,329 2,161 In the Group cash flow statement, net cash and cash equivalents are shown after deducting bank overdrafts and accrued interest, as follows: 2010 2009 m m Cash and cash equivalents as above 2,329 2,161 Less accrued interest 1 1 overdrafts 145 181 Net cash and cash equivalents 2,183 1,979 Cash and cash equivalents include restricted amounts of 82 million 2009: 80 million, principally due to exchange control regulations in certain countries.
152 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity Attributable to owners of the parent Share premium, capital Total redemption attributable to NonShare and merger Other Retained owners of the controlling Total capital reserves reserves earnings parent interests equity m m m m m m m 1 January 2010 506 3,907 1,032 2,168 7,613 299 7,912 Comprehensive income andexpense Profit for the year 2,879 2,879 261 3,140 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 484 484 18 502 associates 105 105 105 Differences on exchange reclassified and reported in profit for the year 3 3 3 Cash flow hedges net fair value losses 106 106 106 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 55 55 55 reclassified and reported in net assets 3 3 3 Available-for-sale investments net fair value gains 4 4 4 Net investment hedges net fair value losses 31 31 31 differences on exchange on borrowings 71 71 3 74 Retirement benefit schemes actuarial gains losses in respect of subsidiaries note 12 198 198 5 193 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries note 12 57 57 1 58 actuarial losses in respect of associates net of tax note 11 54 54 54 Tax on other items recognised directly in other comprehensive income note 6 d 14 16 2 1 1 Other changes in equity Employee share options value of employee services 67 67 67 proceeds from shares issued 3 4 7 7 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares 2,093 2,093 2,093 to non-controlling interests 234 234 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 66 66 66 Non-controlling interests acquisitions note 29 12 12 12 Other movements 26 26 26 31 December 2010 506 3,910 1,600 3,190 9,206 342 9,548 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 153 Financial statements 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Attributable to owners of the parent Share premium, capital Total redemption attribuatable NonShare and merger Other Retained to owners of controlling Total capital reserves reserves earnings the parent interests equity m m m m m m m 1 January 2009 506 3,905 955 1,578 6,944 271 7,215 Comprehensive income and expense Profit for the year 2,713 2,713 243 2,956 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 142 142 24 166 associates 258 258 258 Cash flow hedges net fair value losses 72 72 72 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 67 67 67 reclassified and reported in net assets 1 1 1 Available-for-sale investments net fair value gains 3 3 3 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 3 3 3 Net investment hedges net fair value gains 238 238 238 differences on exchange on borrowings 12 12 12 Retirement benefit schemes actuarial losses in respect of subsidiaries note 12 292 292 3 295 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries note 12 75 75 1 76 actuarial gains in respect of associates net of tax note 11 61 61 61 Tax on other items recognised directly in other comprehensive income note 6 d 51 8 59 12 71 Other changes in equity Employee share options value of employee services 61 61 61 proceeds from shares issued 2 5 7 7 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares 1,798 1,798 1,798 to non-controlling interests 240 240 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownershiptrusts 94 94 94 Non-controlling interests acquisitions note 26 1 1 Non-controlling interests capital injection note 29 16 16 Other movements 17 17 17 31 December 2009 506 3,907 1,032 2,168 7,613 299 7,912 Details relating to the allotted share capital, and movements therein, are included in note 4 of the Parent Company financial statements.
154 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Share premium account, capital redemption reserves and merger reserves comprise: Share Capital premium redemption Merger account reserves reserves Total m m m m 1 January 2009 56 101 3,748 3,905 31 December 2009 58 101 3,748 3,907 31 December 2010 61 101 3,748 3,910 The share premium account includes the difference between the value of shares issued and their nominal value.
The increase of 3 million 2009: 2 million relates solely to ordinary shares issued under the Companys share option schemes.
These schemes are described in the Remuneration Report.
On the purchase of own shares as part of the share buy-back programme for shares which are cancelled, a transfer is made from retained earnings to the capital redemption reserve equivalent to the nominal value of shares purchased.
Purchased shares which are not cancelled are classified as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
Total equity attributable to owners of the parent is stated after deducting the cost of treasury shares which include 523 million 2009: 523 million for shares repurchased and not cancelled and 227 million 2009: 249 million in respect of the cost of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts.
In 1999, shares were issued for the acquisition of the Rothmans International B. V. Group, and the difference between the fair value of shares issued and their nominal value was credited to merger reserves.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 155 Financial statements 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Movements in other reserves and retained earnings which is after deducting treasury shares shown above comprise: Retained earnings AvailableTranslation Hedging for-sale Revaluation Total other Treasury reserve reserve reserve reserve Other reserves shares Other m m m m m m m m 1 January 2010 275 6 11 179 573 1,032 772 2,940 Comprehensive income and expense Profit for the year 2,879 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 484 484 associates 105 105 Differences on exchange reclassified and reported in profit for the year 3 3 Cash flow hedges net fair value losses 106 106 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 55 55 reclassified and reported in net assets 3 3 Available-for-sale investments net fair value gains 4 4 Net investment hedges net fair value losses 31 31 differences on exchange on borrowings 71 71 Retirement benefit schemes actuarial gains in respect of subsidiaries note 12 198 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries note 12 57 actuarial losses in respect of associates net of tax note 11 54 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income note6 d 33 19 14 16 Other changes in equity Employee share options value of employee services 67 proceeds from shares issued 4 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares 2,093 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownershiptrusts 66 Non-controlling interests acquisitions 12 Other movements 84 58 31 December 2010 868 35 15 179 573 1,600 750 3,940 156 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Retained earnings AvailableTranslation Hedging for-sale Revaluation Total other Treasury reserve reserve reserve reserve Other reserves shares Other m m m m m m m m 1 January 2009 188 4 11 179 573 955 745 2,323 Comprehensive income and expense Profit for the year 2,713 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 142 142 associates 258 258 Cash flow hedges net fair value losses 72 72 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 67 67 reclassified and reported in net assets 1 1 Available-for-sale investments net fair value gains 3 3 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 3 3 Net investment hedges net fair value gains 238 238 differences on exchange on borrowings 12 12 Retirement benefit schemes actuarial losses in respect of subsidiaries note 12 292 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries note12 75 actuarial gains in respect of associates net of tax note 11 61 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income note6 d 47 4 51 8 Other changes in equity Employee share options value of employee services 61 proceeds from shares issued 5 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares 1,798 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 94 Other movements 62 45 31 December 2009 275 6 11 179 573 1,032 772 2,940 The translation reserve is as explained in the accounting policy on foreign currencies in note 1.
The hedging reserve and the available-for-sale reserve are as explained in the accounting policy on financial instruments in note 1.
The revaluation reserve relates to the acquisition of the cigarette and snus business of ST in 2008.
Of the amounts released from the hedging reserve during the year, losses of 4 million 2009: 4 million loss and losses of 38 million 2009: 9 million gain were reported within revenue and raw materials and consumables respectively, together with a gain of 3 million 2009: 14 million gain reported in other operating expenses and a loss of 16 million 2009: 86 million loss reported within net finance costs.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 157 Financial statements 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Other reserves comprise: a 483 million which arose in 1998 from merger accounting in a Scheme of Arrangement and Reconstruction whereby British American Tobacco p. l. c. acquired the entire share capital of B.
A. T Industries p. l. c. and the share capital of that companys principal financial services subsidiaries was distributed, so effectively demerging them: and b In the Rothmans transaction, convertible redeemable preference shares were issued as part of the consideration.
The discount on these shares was amortised by crediting other reserves and charging retained earnings.
The 90 million balance in other reserves comprises the accumulated balance in respect of the preference shares converted during 2004.
The tax attributable to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Translation reserve Differences on exchange 4 42 Net investment hedges difference on exchange on borrowings 29 5 33 47 Hedging reserve Cash flow hedges net fair value losses gains 27 4 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 8 19 4 Retained earnings actuarial losses gains in respect of subsidiaries 31 31 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries 15 23 16 8 Owners of the parent 2 59 Non-controlling interests 1 12 Total tax recognised in other comprehensive income for the period note 6 d 1 71 158 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 21 Borrowings Maturity Interest 2010 2009 Currency dates rates m m Eurobonds Euro 2011 to 2021 3.6% to 5.9% 5,064 5,500 UK sterling 2013 to 2040 5.5% to 7.3% 2,626 2,297 Bonds issued pursuant to Rule 144A and RegS under theUS Securities Act as amended US dollar 2013 to 2018 8.1% to 9.5% 637 620 Floating rate notes Euro 2010 floating rate 467 Other notes Malaysian ringgit 2012 to 2014 4.1% to 4.5% 136 119 Indonesian rupiah 2012 10.5% 96 90 Other currencies 26 25 Syndicated bank loans US dollar 2012 floating rate 442 427 Euro 2012 to 2013 floating rate 382 613 Euro commercial paper 187 Bank loans 629 519 Other loans 47 2 Finance leases 20 35 Overdrafts 145 181 10,250 11,082 The floating rate interest rates referred to in the table above are based on EURIBOR or USD LIBOR plus a margin ranging between 28 and 105 basis points 2009: 28 and 225 basis points.
Included within non-current borrowings are 2,595 million 2009: 3,019 million of borrowings subject to fair value hedges where their amortised cost has been increased by 150 million 2009: 96 million in the table above.
The fair value of borrowings is estimated to be 10,963 million 2009: 11,646 million and has been determined using quoted market prices or discounted cash flow analysis.
2010 2009 m m Amounts secured on Group assets 61 59 Amounts secured include finance leases of 20 million 2009: 35 million and the remaining amounts are secured on certain property and inventory of the Group note 10 and note 17.
Borrowings are repayable as follows: Per balance sheet Contractual gross maturities 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Within one year 1,334 1,370 1,389 1,404 Between one and two years 1,057 1,083 1,382 1,440 Between two and three years 1,232 1,895 1,740 2,463 Between three and four years 617 844 1,021 1,199 Between four and five years 1,067 624 1,430 996 Beyond five years 4,943 5,266 7,061 7,264 10,250 11,082 14,023 14,766 The contractual gross maturities in each year include the borrowings maturing in that year together with forecast interest payments on all borrowings which are outstanding for all or part of that year.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 159 Financial statements 21 Borrowings continued Borrowings are denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary undertaking or other currencies as shown below: Functional US UK Canadian Australian Other currency dollar sterling Euro dollar dollar currencies Total m m m m m m m m 31 December 2010 Total borrowings 5,111 1,277 329 3,524 1 8 10,250 Effect of derivative financial instruments cross-currency swaps 14 325 10 399 78 forward foreign currency contracts 1,180 662 299 1,048 485 10 3,931 1,291 4 2,852 300 1,048 892 10,318 31 December 2009 Total borrowings 4,718 1,155 328 4,863 18 11,082 Effect of derivative financial instruments cross-currency swaps 14 325 10 413 92 forward foreign currency contracts 1,289 726 413 947 679 24 3,429 1,169 3 4,127 413 947 1,110 11,198 Details of the derivative financial instruments included in these tables are given in note 16.
The exposure to interest rate changes when borrowings are repriced is as follows: Within Between Between Between Between Beyond 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m 31 December 2010 Total borrowings 2,179 616 851 617 1,067 4,920 10,250 Effect of derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps 1,782 289 493 750 250 cross-currency swaps 419 342 77 4,380 327 358 133 1,067 4,328 10,327 31 December 2009 Total borrowings 1,439 1,442 1,467 844 624 5,266 11,082 Effect of derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps 2,749 666 505 750 828 cross-currency swaps 434 343 91 4,622 1,442 801 339 126 4,095 11,173 Details of the derivative financial instruments included in these tables are given in note 16.
160 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements No Not te es on th s on the a e ac cc co oun unfit ts s c co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 21 Borrowings continued Effective interest rates are as follows: 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m % % US dollar 1,346 1,223 5.5 5.7 UK sterling 2,646 2,284 6.3 6.3 Euro 5,473 6,780 5.1 4.6 Canadian dollar 9 13 5.4 5.6 Other currencies 776 782 6.8 6.0 10,250 11,082 The values and rates shown above do not reflect the effect of the interest rate and cross-currency swaps detailed in note 16.
Finance lease liabilities per the balance sheet and on a contractual gross maturity basis are payable as follows: 2010 2009 Principal Interest Total Principal Interest Total m m m m m m Within one year 11 1 12 17 1 18 Between one and two years 5 5 10 1 11 Between two and three years 2 2 4 4 Between three and four years 1 1 2 2 Between four and five years 1 1 Beyond five years 1 1 1 1 20 1 21 35 2 37 Borrowings facilities 2010 2009 m m Undrawn committed facilities expiring within one year 282 436 between one and two years 130 between two and three years 1,651 between three and four years between four and five years 2,000 2,282 2,217 In December 2010 the Group negotiated a new central banking facility of 2 billion with a final maturity date of December 2015.
The existing central banking facility of 1.75 billion, with a final maturity date of March 2012 was cancelled at the same time.
The new facility was undrawn as at 31 December 2010.
The Group defines net debt as follows: 2010 2009 m m Borrowings note 21 10,250 11,082 Derivatives in respect of net debt: assets note 16 171 149 liabilities note 16 149 127 Cash and cash equivalents note 19 2,329 2,161 Current available-for-sale investments note 15 58 57 7,841 8,842 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 161 Financial statements 22 Other provisions for liabilities and charges Restructuring Employee of existing related Other businesses benefits provisions Total m m m m 1 January 2010 195 38 223 456 Differences on exchange 3 6 9 Provided in respect of the year 76 12 26 114 Utilised during the year 68 4 46 118 Other movements 4 1 5 8 31 December 2010 207 48 214 469 Analysed on the balance sheet as current 138 16 128 282 non-current 69 32 86 187 207 48 214 469 The restructuring provisions relate to the restructuring and integration costs incurred and reported as adjusting items in the income statement.
The principal restructuring activities in 2010 and 2009 are as described in note 3 e. While some elements of the non-current provisions of 69 million will unwind over several years, as termination payments are made over extended periods in some countries, it is estimated that over 50 per cent will unwind in 2011 and over 80 per cent within five years.
In the prior year, the Group presented provisions in respect of acquired businesses separately from provisions for restructuring of existing businesses.
Provisions for restructuring of acquired businesses mostly relate to those which were part of the integration of the Rothmans businesses in 1999 and the reorganisation of the Italian business acquired in 2003.
These provisions are no longer significant in either the current or prior year and are now presented as part of provisions for restructuring of existing businesses.
Employee related benefits mainly relate to long-term employee benefits other than post-retirement benefits.
As the principal components ofthese provisions are long service awards and jubilee payments due after a certain service period, they will unwind over several years.
Itisestimated that approximately 40 per cent of the non-current provisions of 32 million will unwind within five years.
Other provisions comprise balances set up in the ordinary course of general business that cannot be classified within the other categories, such as sales returns, onerous contracts, together with amounts in respect of supplier, excise and other disputes.
The nature of the amounts provided in respect of disputes is such that the extent and timing of cash flows is difficult to estimate and the ultimate liability may vary from the amounts provided.
Amounts provided above are shown net of reversals of unused provisions which include 12 million for restructuring of existing businesses, 3 million for employee benefits and 59 million for other provisions.
162 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 23 Trade and other payables 2010 2009 m m Trade payables 712 650 Duty, excise and other taxes 3,306 2,909 Accrued charges and deferred income 1,088 943 Social security and other taxation 15 19 Sundry payables 407 386 5,528 4,907 Current 5,335 4,727 Non-current 193 180 5,528 4,907 Accrued charges and deferred income include 30 million 2009: 19 million in respect of interest payable.
Amounts payable to related parties including associated undertakings are shown in note 29.
There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other payables and their fair value, due to the short-term duration of the majority of trade and other payables.
Trade and other payables are predominantly denominated in the functional currencies of subsidiary undertakings with less than 5 per cent in other currencies.
24 Financial instruments Management of financial risks One of the principal responsibilities of Treasury is to manage the financial risks arising from the Groups underlying operations.
Specifically, Treasury manages, within an overall policy framework set by the Groups Main Board and Corporate Finance Committee CFC, the Groups exposure to funding and liquidity, interest rate, foreign exchange and counterparty risks.
The Groups treasury position is monitored by the CFC which meets regularly throughout the year and is chaired by the Group Finance Director.
The approach is one of risk reduction within an overall framework of delivering total shareholder return.
The Group defines capital as net debt see note 21 and equity see note 20.
The only externally imposed capital requirement for the Group is interest cover as described under interest rate risk below.
The Group assesses its financial capacity by reference to cash flow, net debt and interest cover.
Group policies include a set of financing principles and key performance indicators including the monitoring of credit ratings, interest cover and liquidity.
These provide a framework within which the Groups capital base is managed and, in particular, the policies on dividends as a percentage of long-term sustainable earnings and share buy-back are decided.
The key objective of the financing principles is to appropriately balance the interests of equity and debt holders in driving an efficient financing mix for the Group.
The Group manages its financial risks in line with the classification of its financial assets and liabilities in the Groups balance sheet and related notes.
The Groups management of specific risks is dealt with as follows: Liquidity risk It is the policy of the Group to maximise financial flexibility and minimise refinancing risk by issuing debt with a range of maturities, generally matching the projected cash flows of the Group and obtaining this financing from a wide range of providers.
The Group has a target average centrally managed debt maturity of at least 5 years with no more than 20 per cent of centrally managed debt maturing in a single rolling year.
As at 31 December 2010, the average centrally managed debt maturity was 7.4 years 2009: 6.6 years and the highest proportion of centrally managed debt maturing in a single rolling year was 12.5 per cent 2009: 18.4 per cent.
It is Group policy that short-term sources of funds including drawings under the 1 billion Euro commercial paper ECP programme are backed by undrawn committed lines of credit and cash.
The ECP programme was undrawn at 31 December 2010 2009: 187 million outstanding.
In December 2010, the Group negotiated a new central banking facility of 2 billion with a final maturity date of December 2015.
This facility is provided by 22 banks.
On 25 June 2010, the terms of 470 million of the 1 billion bond maturing in 2011 were modified by extending the maturity to 2020: atthe same time, the Group issued an additional 130 million bond with a maturity of 2020.
In addition, 413 million of the Groups 750million bond maturing in 2012 was purchased and cancelled.
At the same time, the Group issued a new 275 million bond with amaturity of 2040. Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 163 Financial statements 24 Financial instruments continued In May 2010, the Group repaid a 525 million bond.
The repayment was financed from debt issued in November 2009.
In 2010, the Groups subsidiary in Brazil received proceeds of 410 million 2009: 293 million from short-term borrowings in respect of advance payments on leaf export contracts and repaid 297 million 2009: 241 million in the year.
In November 2009, the terms of 481 million of the 1 billion bond maturing in 2013 were modified by extending the maturity to 2021.
Atthe same time, the Group issued an additional 169 million bond with a maturity of 2021.
In addition, 199 million of the 350 million bond maturing in 2013 was purchased and cancelled: at the same time the Group issued a new 500 million bond with a maturity of 2034.
In September 2009 and October 2009, the Group repaid its 359 million and 759 million credit facilities used to finance the acquisition of Tekel in 2008.
The 759 million facility was refinanced by a new 700 million term loan facility with a maturity date of 31 October 2012 withan option to extend it to October 2013, at the discretion of the banking participants in the syndicated facility.
In December 2010, the 700 million term loan facility was partly prepaid and the remaining term loan facility of 450 million was extended to October 2013 with the Group able to negotiate improved pricing.
In February 2009, the Group repaid a 900 million bond which was financed by bond issues during 2008 and cash generated from operations.
In May 2009, the Group repaid Malaysian ringgit MYR 100 million which was refinanced in August 2009 by a new MYR250 million bond, due 2014.
The additional proceeds were used to repay MYR150 million in November 2009.
During 2009, the Group also issued a new 250million bond maturing in June 2022.
The Group utilises cash pooling and zero balancing bank account structures in addition to inter-company loans and borrowings to ensure that there is the maximum mobilisation of cash within the Group.
The key objectives of Treasury in respect of cash and cash equivalents areto protect the principal value of cash and cash equivalents, to concentrate cash at the centre to minimise the required long-term debt issuance, and to optimise the yield earned.
The amount of debt issued by the Group is determined by forecasting the net debt requirement after the mobilisation of cash.
The Group continues to target investment-grade credit ratings: as at 31 December 2010 the ratings from Moodys and S&P were Baa1 BBB 2009: Baa1 BBB and these ratings were maintained throughout the year.
The strength of the ratings has underpinned the debt issuance during 2010 and 2009 and, despite the impact of the turbulence in financial markets, the Group is confident of its ability to successfully access the debt capital markets, as demonstrated with the issue of bonds in the euro and sterling markets in 2010 and 2009.
As part of its short-term cash management, the Group invests in a range of cash and cash equivalents, including money market funds, which are regarded as highly liquid and are not exposed to significant changes in fair value.
These are kept under continuous review as described in the credit risk section below.
At 31 December 2010, cash and cash equivalents include 642 million invested in money market funds 2009: 669 million.
Subsidiary companies are funded by share capital and retained earnings, loans from the central finance companies on commercial terms, orthrough local borrowings by the subsidiaries in appropriate currencies.
All contractual borrowing covenants have been met and none ofthem is expected to inhibit the Groups operations or funding plans.
Currency risk The Group is subject to exposure on the translation of the net assets of foreign currency subsidiaries and associates into its reporting currency, sterling.
The Groups primary balance sheet translation exposures are to the US dollar, Canadian dollar, euro, Danish krone, Turkish lira, South African rand, Russian rouble, Brazilian real and Australian dollar.
These exposures are kept under continuous review.
The Groups policy on borrowings is to broadly match the currency of these borrowings with the currency of cash flows arising from the Groups underlying operations.
Within this overall policy, the Group aims to minimise all balance sheet translation exposure where it is practicable and cost-effective to do so through matching currency assets with currency borrowings.
The main objective of these policies is to protect shareholder value by increasing certainty and minimising volatility in earnings per share.
At 31 December 2010, the currency profile of the Groups gross debt, after taking into account derivative contracts, was 13 per cent 2009: 11 per cent US dollar, 47 per cent 2009: 54 per cent euro, 3 per cent 2009: 4 per cent Canadian dollar, 11 per cent 2009: 6 per cent sterling, 10 per cent 2009: 8 per cent Australian dollar and 16 per cent 2009: 17 per cent other currencies.
The Group faces currency exposures arising from the translation of profits earned in foreign currency subsidiaries and associates and joint ventures: these exposures are not normally hedged.
Exposures also arise from: i foreign currency denominated trading transactions undertaken by subsidiaries.
These exposures comprise committed and highly probable forecast sales and purchases, which are offset wherever possible.
The remaining exposures are hedged within the Treasury policies and procedures with forward foreign exchange contracts and options, which are designated as hedges of the foreign exchange risk of the identified future transactions: and ii forecast dividend flows from subsidiaries to the centre.
To ensure cash flow certainty, the Group hedges such flows using forward foreign exchange contracts designated as net investment hedges of the foreign exchange risk arising from the investments in these subsidiaries.
164 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 24 Financial instruments continued IFRS 7 requires a sensitivity analysis that shows the impact on the income statement and on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income of hypothetical changes of exchange rates in respect of non-functional currency financial assets and liabilities held across the Group.
All other variables are held constant although, in practice, market rates rarely change in isolation.
Financial assets and liabilities held in the functional currency of the Groups subsidiaries, as well as non-financial assets and liabilities and translation risk, are notincluded in the analysis.
The Group considers a 10 per cent strengthening or weakening of the functional currency against the non-functional currency of its subsidiaries as a reasonably possible change.
The impact is calculated with reference to the financial asset or liability held as at the year end, unless this is unrepresentative of the position during the year.
A 10 per cent strengthening of functional currencies against non-functional currencies would result in pre-tax profit being 36 million higher 2009: 24 million lower and items recognised directly in other comprehensive income being 273 million higher 2009: 268 million higher.
A 10 per cent weakening of functional currencies against non-functional currencies would result in pre-tax profit being 44million lower 2009: 26 million higher and items recognised directly in other comprehensive income being 333 million lower 2009:328 million lower.
The exchange sensitivities on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income relate to hedging of certain net asset currency positions in the Group, but does not include sensitivities in respect of exchange on non-financial assets, as well as on cash flow hedges inrespect of future transactions debt.
Interest rate risk The objectives of the Groups interest rate risk management policy are to lessen the impact of adverse interest rate movements on the earnings, cash flow and economic value of the Group and to safeguard against any possible breach of its financial covenants.
Additional objectives are to minimise the cost of hedging and the associated counterparty risk.
The Group targets an interest cover ratio, as calculated under its key central banking facilities, of greater than 5 and for 2010 it is 11.2 times 2009: 9.9 times.
The only externally imposed capital requirement the Group has is in respect of its centrally managed banking facilities, which require a gross interest cover of 4.5.
In order to manage its interest rate risk, the Group maintains both floating rate and fixed rate debt.
The Group sets targets within overall guidelines for the desired ratio of floating to fixed rate debt on both a gross and net basis at least 50 per cent fixed on a net basis in the short to the medium-term as a result of regular reviews of market conditions and strategy by the Corporate Finance Committee and the board of the main central finance company.
At 31 December 2010, the relevant ratios of floating to fixed rate borrowings were 33:67 2009:48:52 on a gross basis and 9:91 2009: 30:70 on a net basis.
Underlying borrowings are arranged on both a fixed rate and a floatingrate basis and, where appropriate, the Group uses derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps, to vary the fixed and floating mix.
Theinterest rate profile of liquid assets is taken into account in determining the net interest rate exposure.
IFRS 7 requires a sensitivity analysis that shows the impact on the income statement and on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income of hypothetical changes of interest rates in respect of financial assets and liabilities of the Group.
For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis, financial assets and liabilities with fixed interest rates are not included.
The Group considers a 100 basis point change in interest rates a reasonably possible change except where rates are less than 100 basis points.
In these instances it is assumed that the interest rates increase by 100 basis points and decrease tozero for the purpose of performing the sensitivity analysis.
The impact is calculated with reference to the financial asset or liability held asat the year end, unless this is unrepresentative of the position during the year.
A 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in pre-tax profit being 12 million lower 2009: 35 million lower.
A 100 basis point decrease in interest rates, or less where applicable, would result in pre-tax profit being 8 million higher 2009: 34 million higher.
The effect of these interest rate changes on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income is not material in either year.
Credit risk The Group has no significant concentrations of customer credit risk.
Subsidiaries have policies in place requiring appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
The process for monitoring and managing credit risk once sales to customers have been made varies depending on local practice in the countries concerned.
Certain territories have bank guarantees, other guarantees and credit insurance provided in the Groups favour in respect of Group trade receivables, the issuance and terms of which are dependent on local practices in the countries concerned.
All derivatives are subject to ISDA agreements or equivalent documentation.
Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit risk on the amounts due from the related counterparties.
Generally the Group targets a long-term counterparty credit rating of at least A A2.
However the Group recognises that due to the need to operate over alarge geographic footprint, sovereign risk can be the determining factor on the suitability of a counterparty.
From time to time the Group may invest in short-dated corporate commercial paper and for this, the Group identifies specific counterparties with a minimum short-term rating of A1 P1.
Counterparty credit risk is managed on a global basis by limiting the aggregate amount and duration of exposure to any one counterparty, taking into account its credit rating.
The credit ratings of all counterparties are reviewed regularly.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 165 Financial statements 24 Financial instruments continued The Group ensures that it has sufficient counterparty credit capacity of requisite quality to undertake all anticipated transactions throughout its geographic footprint, while at the same time ensuring that there is no geographic concentration in the location of counterparties.
The maximum exposure to the credit risk of financial assets at the balance sheet date is reflected by the carrying values included in the Groups balance sheet.
In addition, the Group has issued guarantees to third parties, part of which has been recognised on the balance sheet in accordance with IAS 39.
The unrecognised portion of these guarantees amounts to 64 million 2009: 84 million.
Price risk The Group is exposed to equity price risk on equity investments held by the Group, which are included in available-for-sale investments on the Group balance sheet, but the quantum of such is not material.
Hedge accounting In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document prospectively the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is reperformed periodically to ensure that the hedge has remained, and is expected to remain highly effective.
Fair value estimation The fair values of financial assets and liabilities with maturities of less than one year, other than derivatives, are assumed to approximate their book values.
For other financial instruments which are measured at fair value in the balance sheet, the basis for fair values is described below.
Fair value hierarchy The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value in accordance with the IFRS 7 classification hierarchy: 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale investments note 15 6 55 26 87 Derivatives relating to interest rate swaps note 16 139 139 cross-currency swaps note 16 16 16 forward foreign currency contracts note 16 109 109 others note 16 4 5 9 Assets at fair value 10 324 26 360 Liabilities at fair value Derivatives relating to interest rate swaps note 16 8 8 cross-currency swaps note 16 51 51 forward foreign currency contracts note 16 248 248 others note 16 12 12 Liabilities at fair value 319 319 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale investments note 15 5 54 24 83 interest rate swaps note 16 108 108 cross-currency swaps note 16 15 15 forward foreign currency contracts note 16 118 118 others note 16 4 4 8 Assets at fair value 9 299 24 332 Liabilities at fair value interest rate swaps note 16 1 1 cross-currency swaps note 16 79 79 forward foreign currency contracts note 16 127 127 others note 16 14 14 Liabilities at fair value 221 221 166 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 24 Financial instruments continued Level 1 financial instruments are traded in an active market and fair value is based on quoted prices at the year end.
This category includes listed equity shares of 9 million 2009: 8 million.
Level 2 financial instruments are not traded in an active market but the fair values are based on quoted market prices, broker dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
Level 2 financial instruments include certain money market securities and most OTC derivatives.
The fair values of level 3 financial instruments have been determined using a valuation technique where at least one input which could have a significant effect on the instruments valuation is not based on observable market data.
Level 3 financial instruments primarily consist of an equity investment in an unquoted entity which is valued using the discounted cash flows of estimated future dividends.
The valuation assumes the following: future dividends grow by 2 per cent 2009: 2 per cent and a 100 basis points decrease in the growth rate would result in the valuation being 2 million lower 2009: 2 million lower : and discount rate of 8 per cent 2009: 8 per cent and a 100 basis points decrease in the discount rate would result in the valuation being 4million higher 2009: 4 million higher.
The following table presents the changes in level 3 financial instruments: Available-for-sale investments 2010 2009 m m Beginning of year 24 24 Gains included in other comprehensive income 3 2 Differences on exchange 1 2 End of year 26 24 25 Cash flow Cash generated from operations 2010 2009 m m Profit from operations 4,318 4,101 Adjustments for amortisation and impairment of trademarks 106 58 amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets 322 120 gains on disposal of businesses and trademarks 5 2 depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 469 433 increase in inventories 280 125 increase decrease in trade and other receivables 127 30 increase in trade and other payables 497 174 decrease in net retirement benefit liabilities 153 127 increase decrease in provisions for liabilities and charges 17 38 other non-cash items 43 21 Cash generated from operations 5,207 4,645 Profit from operations includes charges in respect of Group restructuring and integration costs referred to in note 3 e. These are also reflected in the movements in depreciation, amortisation, impairment, inventories, receivables, payables and provisions above and in the proceeds of disposal of property, plant and equipment shown in the Group cash flow statement.
The net cash outflow in respect of the Groups restructuring costs was 193 million 2009: 173 million, of which 219 million 2009: 187 million is included in cash generated from operations above.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 167 Financial statements 25 Cash flow continued Cash flows from investing activities a Purchases and proceeds on disposals of investments The purchases and disposals of investments which comprise available-for-sale investments and loans and receivables comprises a net cash outflow in respect of current investments of 1 million 2009: 37 million inflow.
b Purchase of Bentoel In 2009, the net cash outflow of 370 million on the purchase of Bentoel reflects the settlement of the purchase consideration for an initial 85 per cent stake followed by the acquisition of a further 14 per cent from non-controlling interests, together with related acquisition costs and the acquired cash and cash equivalents and overdrafts.
c Purchase of Tekel cigarette assets The 12 million outflow in 2009 in respect of the acquisition of Tekel cigarette assets reflected the final payment made at the conclusion of the acquisition.
d Proceeds from ST trademark disposals The cash inflow in 2009 reflects proceeds of 188 million from the disposal of a small number of ST trademarks in Norway, the payment of the related disposal costs of 3 million and a 2 million refund of the original purchase price.
e Purchases of other subsidiaries and associates In 2009, the 1 million outflow principally arises from equity investments in associate companies.
f Proceeds on disposal of subsidiaries The proceeds on disposal of subsidiaries reflects the consideration received, less cash and cash equivalents disposed of, from the sale of the Groups Belgian distribution business, Lyfra NV, as explained in note 26 a.
Cash flows from financing activities a Purchase of non-controlling interests The cash outflow of 12 million in 2010 arises from the acquisition of non-controlling interests in Bentoel of shareholders who did not wish to participate in the merger of Bentoel and BAT Indonesia as well as non-controlling interests in subsidiaries in the Eastern Europe region.
As a result of the revision to IAS 27, the purchase of non-controlling interests is now classified under IAS 7 as a financing activity.
This change is applied prospectively from 1 January 2010. b Cash flows from borrowings In May 2010, the Group repaid a 525 million bond.
On 25 June 2010, the terms of 470 million of the 1 billion bond maturing in 2011 were modified by extending the maturity to 2020: at the same time, the Group issued an additional 130 million bond with a maturity of 2020.
In addition, 413 million of the Groups 750 million bond maturing in 2012 was purchased and cancelled.
At the same time, the Group issued a new 275 million bond with a maturity of 2040.
During the year the Groups subsidiary in Brazil received proceeds of 410 million 2009: 293 million from short-term borrowings in respect of advance payments on leaf export contracts and repaid 297 million 2009: 241 million.
During 2009, the Group had re-established its euro commercial paper programme ECP.
However, the ECP programme was undrawn at 31December 2010 whereas, at 31 December 2009 187 million of ECP was outstanding.
During June 2009, the Group also issued a new 250 million bond maturing in June 2022.
The 759 million was refinanced by a new 700 million term loan facility with a maturity date of 31 October 2012 with an option to extend it to October 2013, at the discretion of the banking participants in the syndicated facility.
In December 2010, the 700 million term loan facility was partly repaid and the remaining term loan facility of 450 million was extended to October 2013 with the Group able to negotiate improved pricing.
168 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 25 Cash flow continued c Derivative financial instruments The movement relating to derivative financial instruments is in respect of derivatives taken out to hedge cash and cash equivalents and external borrowings, derivatives taken out to hedge inter company loans and borrowings and derivatives treated as net investment hedges.
Derivatives taken out as cash flow hedges in respect of financing activities are also included in the movement relating to derivative financial instruments, while other such derivatives in respect of operating and investing activities are reflected along with the underlying transactions.
26 Business combinations and disposals a Lyfra NV On 7 April 2010, the Group announced that it had agreed to sell its Belgium distribution business, Lyfra NV, to Landewyck Group S. a. r. l. Thetransaction was completed on 25 June 2010 for a consideration of 16 million and resulted in a gain of 5 million.
Lyfra contributed 215 million to revenue 473 million for the year to 31 December 2009 and 1 million to profit from operations to 25 June 2010 1million for the year to 31 December 2009 in the Western Europe Region.
b PT Bentoel Internasional Investama Tbk On 17 June 2009, the Group acquired from PT Rajawali Corpora and other shareholders an 85 per cent stake in Indonesias fourth largest cigarette maker PT Bentoel Internasional Investama Tbk Bentoel for US$494 million 303 million.
A public tender offer for the remaining shares was completed on 26 August 2009, resulting in the acquisition of a further 14 per cent share in the company, for IDR855,783 million 52 million, bringing the total shareholding in the Bentoel Group to 99.7 per cent.
This transaction resulted in goodwill of 188 million.
On 20 October 2009, it was announced that Bentoel and BAT Indonesia would enter into a merger plan whereby BAT Indonesia would merge into Bentoel.
This was completed with an effective date of 1 January 2010.
The Bentoel name has been retained and the company remains listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange.
As part of the merger, certain non-controlling interests were acquired for 3 million and the total shareholding in the merged group is 99.14 per cent.
c Items classified as held-for-sale At 31 December 2010, held-for-sale assets comprise mainly land and buildings in Turkey and Canada which are being actively marketed for sale.
At 31 December 2009, the external assets and liabilities of Lyfra NV comprising 12 million of inventories, 2 million of current trade and other receivables and 16 million of current trade and other payables were presented as held-for-sale.
The remainder of held-for-sale assets at 31 December 2009 comprised plant, property and equipment of 3 million.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 169 Financial statements 27 Share-based payments During the period ended 31 December 2010, the following material share-based payment arrangements existed, which are described below: Long-Term Deferred Share Sharesave Share Option Share Reward Type of arrangement Incentive Plan Bonus Scheme Scheme Scheme Scheme Timing of grant Annually in March Annually in March See note a See note b Annually in April Number of options shares granted in 2010 2,655,631 2,281,867 n a n a 155,654 Number of options 3 year 104,361 shares granted in 2009 3,809,739 3,567,941 5 year 115,004 n a 253,678 Fair value per share for 2010 grant 15.62 19.78 n a n a 22.78 Fair value per share 3 year 3.89 for 2009 grant 11.00 13.47 5 year 4.15 n a 16.07 Both equity and Both equity and Both equity and Method of settlement cash-settled grants cash-settled grants Equity cash-settled grants Equity Contractual life 10 years 3 years 3.5 or 5.5 years 10 years 3 years Vesting conditions See note c See note d See note e See note f See note g Notes: a In 2009, grants under the Sharesave Scheme were made in November.
The Rules of the Scheme stipulate that Sharesave grants may be made within 42days of a financial announcement.
The Interim Management Statements reported by the Group for its results to 31 March and 30 September are not deemed to be financial announcements for the Rules of the Scheme and accordingly no grant has been made in November of the current year.
The next grant date will be in March 2011. b The granting of options under this scheme ceased with the last grant made in March 2004.
Eligible individuals are entitled to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Share Bonus Scheme.
c Nil-cost options exercisable three years from date of grant, with payout subject to performance conditions based on earnings per share relative to inflation 50 per cent of grant and total shareholder return, combining the share price and dividend performance of the Company by reference to two comparator groups 50 per cent of grant.
Participants are not entitled to dividends prior to the exercise of the options.
For grants made in 2005 and thereafter, a cash equivalent dividend will accrue through the vesting period and will be paid on vesting.
d Free shares released three years from date of grant and may be subject to forfeit if participant leaves employment before the end of the three year holding period.
Participants receive a separate payment equivalent to a proportion of the dividend during the holding period.
e Options granted by invitation at a 20 per cent discount to the market price.
Options are exercisable at the end of a three year or five year savings contract.
The maximum amount that can be saved by a participant in this way is 3,000 in any tax year.
f Options exercisable three years from date of grant and subject to earnings per share performance condition relative to inflation.
Participants are not entitled to receive dividends in the period prior to the exercise of the options.
g Free shares granted maximum 3,000 in any year subject to a three year holding period and may be subject to forfeit if the employee leaves within this period.
Participants are entitled to receive dividends during the holding period which are reinvested to buy further shares.
During the period, the Company operated a Partnership Share Scheme, which was open to all eligible employees, where employees can allocate part of their pre-tax salary to purchase shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. The maximum amount that can be allocated in this way to any individual is 1,500 in any tax year.
The shares purchased are held in a UK-based trust and are normally capable of transfer to participants tax free after a five year holding period.
Further details on the operation of share-based payment arrangements can be found in the Remuneration Report.
170 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 27 Share-based payments continued Share option schemes Details of the movements for equity-settled share option schemes during the years ended 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 covering the Share Option and Sharesave Schemes were as follows: 2010 2009 Weighted Weighted average average exercise price exercise price Number per share Number per share of options of options Outstanding at start of year 2,435,584 9.55 3,289,947 8.34 Granted during the period 219,365 15.55 Exercised during the period 869,236 7.06 1,016,568 7.60 Forfeited during the period 54,769 12.70 57,160 12.72 Outstanding at end of year 1,511,579 10.87 2,435,584 9.55 Exercisable at end of year 629,598 7.13 1,203,109 6.79 In addition to the above options, the movement in nil-cost equity-settled options from the Long-Term Incentive Plan was as follows: 2010 2009 Number Number of options of options Outstanding at start of year 7,559,620 6,712,197 Granted during the period 2,383,433 3,451,451 Exercised during the period 2,201,780 2,271,963 Forfeited during the period 449,008 330,835 Changed to cash-settled share-based payment arrangement 1,230 Outstanding at end of year 7,292,265 7,559,620 Exercisable at end of year 391,775 619,141 During 2010, equity-settled awards in respect of nil 2009: 1,230 options were modified to a cash-settled basis.
The weighted average British American Tobacco p. l. c. share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 22.27 2009: 17.58.
A detailed breakdown of the range of exercise prices for options outstanding for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 is shown in the table below: 2010 2009 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average Number average average Number remaining exercise outstanding remaining exercise outstanding contractual life price per share at end contractual life price per share Range of exercise prices at end of year in years of year in years Nil-cost 7,292,265 8.2 n a 7,559,620 8.2 n a 2.53 to 4.99 n a n a 60,672 0.2 2.54 5.00 to 6.99 301,069 1.8 6.09 815,533 2.1 6.22 7.00 to 8.99 328,529 3.3 8.09 532,909 4.2 8.09 9.00 to 12.49 208,288 0.9 10.67 306,281 1.6 10.93 12.50 to 15.99 673,693 2.6 14.42 720,189 3.6 14.41 8,803,844 7.2 1.87 9,995,204 6.9 2.33 The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share option schemes shares granted during 2010 was 15.62 2009: 10.58. Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 171 Financial statements 27 Share-based payments continued Assumptions used in the Black-Scholes models to determine the fair value of share options at grant date were as follows: 2010 2009 Long-Term Sharesave Long-Term Sharesave Incentive Plan Schemes Incentive Plan Schemes Share price at date of grant 22.58 n a 15.79 19.43 Exercise price nil-cost n a nil-cost 15.55 Volatility % 25 n a 24 25 Average expected term to exercise years 3.5 n a 3.5 3.2 5.2 Risk-free rate % 2.1 n a 2.1 1.6 2.6 Expected dividend yield % 4.4 n a 5.3 4.6 No Sharesave Scheme grants were awarded in 2010, as explained in note 27 a.
Where two figures have been quoted for the Sharesave Schemes, the first number represents the assumptions for the three-year savings contract and the second number for the five-year savings contract.
Market condition features were incorporated into the Monte-Carlo models for the total shareholder return elements of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, in determining fair value at grant date.
Assumptions used in these models were as follows: 2010 2009 Average share price volatility FTSE 100 comparator group 38 35 Average share price volatility FMCG comparator group 25 24 Average correlation FTSE 100 comparator group 37 38 Average correlation FMCG comparator group 33 32 The expected British American Tobacco p. l. c. share price volatility was determined taking account of the daily share price movements over afive year period.
The respective FMCG and FTSE 100 share price volatility and correlations were also determined over the same periods.
The average expected term to exercise used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural conditions, forfeiture and historical experience.
The risk-free rate has been determined from market yield curves for government gilts with outstanding terms equal to the average expected term to exercise for each relevant grant.
The expected dividend yield was determined by calculating the yield from the last two declared dividends divided by the grant share price.
For grants containing earnings per share performance conditions, the payout calculation is based on the expectations published in analysts forecasts.
Other equity share-based payment arrangements other than share options Details of the movements of other equity share-based payment arrangements during the years ended 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009, covering the Deferred Share Bonus and Share Reward Schemes, were as follows: 2010 2009 Number Number of shares of shares Outstanding at start of year 6,481,964 5,069,083 Granted during the period 2,116,406 3,326,759 Exercised during the period 2,386,182 1,847,581 Forfeited during the period 36,913 57,921 Changed to cash-settled share-based payment arrangement 8,376 Outstanding at end of year 6,175,275 6,481,964 Exercisable at end of year 216,737 240,408 In 2009, equity-settled awards in respect of 8,376 shares were modified to a cash-settled basis.
The shares outstanding for the year ended 31 December 2010 had a weighted average contractual life of 1.3 years 2009: 1.4 years.
172 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 27 Share-based payments continued The fair value for other equity share-based payment arrangements granted during the period was determined using the Black-Scholes model with the following input assumptions at their grant date: 2010 2009 Deferred Share Deferred Share Bonus Reward Share Bonus Share Reward Scheme Scheme Scheme Scheme Grant price 22.58 22.79 15.79 16.07 Expected volatility % 25 25 24 24 Average expected term to exercise years 3.0 5.0 3.0 5.0 Risk-free rate % 1.8 2.8 2.0 2.3 Expected dividend yield % 4.4 4.4 5.3 5.2 The weighted average fair value of other equity share-based payment arrangements granted during 2010 was 19.98 2009: 13.67.
Cash-settled share-based payment arrangements The Group issues to certain employees cash-settled share-based payments that require the Group to pay the intrinsic value of these share-based payments to the employee at the date of exercise.
The Group has recorded liabilities at the end of 2010 of 27.2million 2009: 25.7 million of which 3.7 million 2009: 5.7 million was in respect of vested grants.
Fair value was determined from the Black-Scholes and Monte-Carlo models, using assumptions revised at the balance sheet date for cash-settled share-based payment arrangements.
The Group recorded total expenses of 20.2 million in 2010 2009: 14.0 million.
Details of movements for cash-settled arrangements in respect of the Share Option Scheme during the years ended 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009, were as follows: 2010 2009 Weighted Weighted average average exercise price exercise price Number per share Number per share of options of options Outstanding at start of year 110,076 6.85 213,189 6.51 Granted during the period n a n a n a n a Exercised during the period 49,994 6.42 103,113 6.15 Outstanding at end of year 60,082 7.21 110,076 6.85 Exercisable at end of year 60,082 7.21 110,076 6.85 In addition to the above, the movement in other nil-cost cash-settled arrangements during the years ended 31 December 2010 and 31December 2009, covering the Long-Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Share Bonus Scheme, was as follows: 2010 2009 Number Number of shares of shares Outstanding at start of year 2,193,023 2,015,771 Granted during the period 593,313 853,148 Exercised during the period 829,730 644,496 Forfeited during the period 85,095 41,006 Changed from equity-settled share-based arrangement 9,606 Outstanding at end of year 1,871,511 2,193,023 Exercisable at end of year 106,934 209,736 As explained in the sections for Share Option Schemes and Other equity share-based payment arrangements, in 2009, 9,606 awards in respect of shares were changed from an equity-settled to a cash-settled basis.
Assumptions used to determine the fair value of cash-settled share-based payment arrangements at date of grant, can be found in the sections relating to share option schemes and other equity share-based payment arrangements.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 173 Financial statements 27 Share-based payments continued The weighted average British American Tobacco p. l. c. share price at the date of exercise for cash-settled share-based arrangements exercised during the period was 22.53 2009: 17.17.
A detailed breakdown of the range of exercise prices for cash-settled share-based payment arrangements outstanding for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 are shown in the table below: 2010 2009 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average Number remaining exercise price Number remaining exercise price outstanding contractual life per share outstanding contractual life per share Range of exercise prices at end of year in years at end of year in years Nil-cost 1,871,511 4.6 n a 2,193,023 5.9 n a 5.60 to 5.98 25,176 2.3 5.98 51,281 3.2 5.98 6.39 to 8.09 34,906 1.9 6.96 58,795 3.1 6.93 1,931,593 4.6 0.20 2,303,099 5.6 0.54 Share-based payment expense The amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of share-based payments were as follows: 2010 2009 m m Equity-settled share-based payments 67 61 Cash-settled share-based payments 20 14 Total amount recognised in the income statement note 3 a 87 75 28 Group employees The average number of persons employed by the Group and its associates during the year, including Directors, was 92,285 2009: 97,078.
2010 2009 Number Number Asia-Pacific 15,848 16,414 Americas 16,423 16,626 Western Europe 14,476 14,785 Eastern Europe 6,828 7,568 Africa and Middle East 6,856 7,028 Subsidiary undertakings 60,431 62,421 Associates 31,854 34,657 92,285 97,078 Details of Directors remuneration, share options and retirement benefits are given in the Remuneration report.
Included within the employee numbers for Europe are certain employees in the UK in respect of central functions.
Some of the costs of these employees are allocated or charged to the various regions and markets in the Group.
174 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 29 Related party disclosures The Group has a number of transactions and relationships with related parties, as defined in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, all of which are undertaken in the normal course of business.
Transactions and balances with associates relate mainly to the sale and purchase of cigarettes and tobacco leaf.
Amounts receivable from associates in respect of dividends included in the table below were 77 million 2009: 68 million.
The Groups share of dividends from associates was 466 million 2009: 331 million.
Legal fees recovered from Reynolds American Inc. included in other net income amounted to 1 million 2009: nil.
2010 2009 m m Transactions revenue 38 47 purchases 442 365 other net income 460 329 Amounts receivable at 31 December 99 78 Amounts payable at 31 December 21 34 On 26 May 2010, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group, BATUS Japan Inc. entered into an American blend Cigarette Manufacturing Agreement referred to as the 2010 Agreement with a wholly-owned subsidiary of Reynolds American, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company referred to as RJRTC, with an effective date of 1 January 2010.
Under this Agreement, RJRTC has been appointed as BATUS Japans exclusive manufacturer of all BATUS Japans requirements for certain American-blend cigarettes intended to be distributed and sold in Japan for the five year period expiring on 31 December 2014, subject to the early termination and extension provisions set out in the agreement.
The 2010 Agreement is based on arms length terms and conditions.
On the same date, RJRTC and BATUS Japan entered into a letter agreement terminating the existing Contract Manufacturing Agreement dated 30 July 2004 referred to as the 2004 Agreement, as amended between the parties, with effect from midnight on 31 December 2009.
The 2004 Agreement was scheduled to expire on 31 December 2014, subject to early termination and extension provisions.
Under the terms of the letter agreement, certain sections and sub-sections of the 2004 Agreement will survive the termination, and, in consideration for RJRTC agreeing to terminate the agreement and in settlement of all disputes at issue between the parties, BATUS Japan agreed to pay RJRTC US$21 million.
The payment has been presented as an adjusting item and is included within the Groups restructuring and integration costs in note 3 e. The Groups share of the income net of tax included within the post-tax results of Reynolds American is also presented as an adjusting item and is credited against restructuring costs see note 5.
In 2010, the Group acquired non-controlling interests of shareholders in Indonesia and Eastern Europe for 3 million see note 26 and 9million respectively.
These transactions are shown as a 12 million reduction to reserves in note 20.
As explained in note 26 a, the Group sold its Belgian distribution business, Lyfra NV, to Landewyck Group S. a. r. l. in 2010 for a consideration of 16 million.
The Groups German subsidiary has an available-for-sale investment in Landewyck Group S. a. r. l. In 2009, a capital injection was made into BAT Algeria where a shareholder SOCALTA Societ Algerienne fide Trading Alimentaire contributed 16 million as shown in note 20.
This contribution by a non-controlling interest was assisted by a loan from another Group subsidiary of 4 million.
The key management personnel of British American Tobacco consist of the members of the Board of Directors of British American Tobacco p. l. c. and the members of the Management Board.
No such person had any material interest during the year in a contract of significance other than a service contract with the Company or any subsidiary company.
The term key management personnel in this context includes the respective members of their households.
2010 2009 m m The total compensation for key management personnel, including Directors, was: salaries and other short-term employee benefits 22 18 post-employment benefits 3 3 share-based payments 12 9 37 30 There were no other long-term benefits applicable in respect of key personnel other than those disclosed in the Remuneration report in the Annual Report.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 175 Financial statements 30 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments RJRT assumed all liabilities of B&W except liabilities to the extent relating to businesses and assets not contributed by The Group is subject to contingencies pursuant to requirements that it B&Wto RJRT and other limited categories of liabilities and complies with relevant laws, regulations and standards.
Failure to comply contributed subsidiaries or otherwise to the extent related could result in restrictions in operations, damages, fines, increased tax, to B&Ws tobacco business as conducted in the United States increased cost of compliance, interest charges, reputational damage, on orprior to 30 July 2004: and or other sanctions.
These matters are inherently difficult to quantify.
RJRT agreed to indemnify B&W and each of its associates otherthan Reynolds American Inc. and its subsidiaries against, In cases where the Group has an obligation as a result of a past event amongother matters, all losses, liabilities, damages, expenses, existing at the balance sheet date, it is probable that an outflow of judgments, attorneys fees, etc.
to the extent relating to or economic resources will be required to settle the obligation and the arising from such assumed liabilities or the assets contributed amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated, a provision would byB&W to RJRT the RJRT Indemnification.
be recognised based on best estimates and management judgment.
The scope of the RJRT Indemnification includes all expenses and There are, however, contingent liabilities in respect of litigation, taxes contingent liabilities in connection with litigation to the extent in some countries and guarantees for which no provisions were made.
relating to or arising from B&Ws US tobacco business as conducted The Group has exposures in respect of the payment or recovery of a on or prior to 30 July 2004, including smoking and health tobacco number of taxes.
The Group is and has been subject to a number of litigation, whether the litigation is commenced before or after tax audits covering amongst others, excise tax, value added taxes, 30July 2004 the Tobacco Litigation.
sales taxes, corporate taxes, withholding taxes and payroll taxes.
Pursuant to the terms of the RJRT Indemnification, RJRT is liable for The estimated costs of known tax obligations have been provided in any possible judgments, the posting of appeal bonds or security, these accounts in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
and all other expenses of and responsibility for managing the In some countries, tax law requires that full or part payment of defence of the Tobacco Litigation.
RJRT has assumed control of the disputed tax assessments be made pending resolution of the dispute.
defence of the Tobacco Litigation involving B&W, to which RJRT is To the extent that such payments exceed the estimated obligation, also a party in most but not all of the same cases.
Accordingly, they would not be recognised as an expense.
In some cases disputes RJRT uses or plans to use the same law firm or firms to represent are proceeding to litigation.
both B&W and RJRT in any single or similar case except in certain limited circumstances as RJRTs interests are typically aligned with While the amounts that may be payable or receivable could be B&Ws interests, as RJRT has substantial experience in managing material to the results or cash flows of the Group in the period in recognised external legal counsel in defending the Tobacco which they are recognised, the Board does not expect these amounts Litigation, and external counsel have independent professional to have a material effect on the Groups financial condition.
responsibilities to represent the interests of B&W.
In addition, in Product liability litigation accordance with the terms of the RJRT Indemnification, associates Group companies, notably Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc. ofB&W have retained control of the defence in certain Tobacco formerly Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation B&W as well Litigation cases with respect to which such associates are entitled as other leading cigarette manufacturers, are defendants, principally toindemnification.
in the United States, in a number of product liability cases.
In a Included in the US litigation section below are all significant cases number of these cases, the amounts of compensatory and punitive where B&W and or a UK company is named as a defendant and all damages sought are significant.
cases where RJRT is named as a defendant as a successor to B&W Indemnity the RJRT Successor Cases.
The RJRT Successor Cases are covered In 2004, B&W completed the combination of the assets, liabilities by the indemnity explained above.
Of the RJRT Successor Cases, and operations of its US tobacco business with R. J. Reynolds Tobacco the section below includes details of all cases where there has been Company RJRT, a wholly-owned subsidiary of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco an adverse judgment and also notes favourable judgments.
Holdings, Inc. pursuant to which Reynolds American Inc. was formed US litigation the Business Combination.
As part of the Business Combination, The total number of US product liability cases pending at 31December B&W contributed to RJRT all of the assets and liabilities of its US 2010 naming B&W was approximately 9,458 2009: approximately cigarette and tobacco business, subject to specified exceptions, in 9,991.
Of these, 6,303 cases are RJRT Successor Cases.
For all of these exchange for a 42 per cent equity ownership interest in Reynolds cases, British American Tobacco Group companies have the protection American Inc. As a result of the Business Combination: of the indemnity above.
British American Tobacco Investments B&W discontinued the active conduct of any tobacco business Limited Investments has been served as a co-defendant in five of inthe United States: those cases 2009: six.
No other UK based Group company has been B&W contributed to RJRT all of its assets other than the capital served as a co-defendant in any US product liability case pending as stock of certain subsidiaries engaged in non-US businesses and at 31 December 2010.
In 2010, there were no US product liability other limited categories of assets: cases tried to verdict against B&W.
No product liability case in which a UK-based Group company is a defendant was tried in 2010, and one case in which a UK-based Group company is a defendant started 176 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 30 Contingent liabilities and financial In another recoupment suit National Committee to Preserve Social Security & Medicare, the plaintiffs, two taxpayer advocacy groups commitmentscontinued and a Medicare recipient diagnosed with lung cancer, alleged that trial in January 2011 City of St. Louis see below.
Since many of the defendants including B&W are liable for the payment of these pending cases seek unspecified damages, it is not possible to Medicare beneficiaries medical costs for diseases attributable to quantify the total amounts being claimed, but the aggregate amounts smoking, pursuant to the Medicare as Secondary Payer Statute involved in such litigation are significant, possibly totalling in the MSP.
On 5 March 2009, the district court in the Eastern District billions of US dollars.
The cases fall into four broad categories: ofNew York issued an order granting the defendants motion to dismiss the plaintiffs complaint in its entirety, and denying the a Medical reimbursement cases plaintiffs cross motion for summary judgment.
The district court These civil actions seek to recover amounts spent by government ruled that MSP plaintiffs can only recover Medicare funds where entities and other third party providers on healthcare and welfare analleged tortfeasors liability has been established prior to the costs claimed to result from illnesses associated with smoking.
plaintiffs seeking relief under the MSP, and that the plaintiffs in Although B&W continues to be a defendant in healthcare cost National Committee had failed to establish such liability.
The plaintiffs recovery cases involving plaintiffs such as hospitals and Native filed a notice of appeal to the US Court of Appeals for the Second American tribes see below, the vast majority of such cases Circuit on 20 May 2009.
On 4 February 2010, the defendants filed a have been dismissed on legal grounds.
motion to dismiss the appeal.
On 23 June 2010, the Second Circuit Further, on 23 November 1998, the major US cigarette manufacturers denied the defendants motion to dismiss the appeal.
On 8October including B&W and RJRT and the attorneys general of 46 US states 2010, a summary order was entered by the Second Circuit that and five US territories executed the Master Settlement Agreement vacated the judgment of the district court and remanded the case MSA, which settled medical reimbursement lawsuits that had been with instructions to dismiss the complaint for lack of subject matter brought by these states and territories.
Under the terms of the MSA, jurisdiction.
On 22 December 2010, the district court entered an the settling cigarette manufacturers agreed, among other things, to order of dismissal for lack of subject matter jurisdiction and directed pay approximately US$246 billion to the settling states and territories the Clerk of Court to enter judgment in accordance with the and to four states that reached separate settlements of their medical instructions from the Second Circuit.
The Clerk of Court entered reimbursement actions over 25 years, and agreed to various judgment in defendants favour on 23 December 2010. restrictions on US tobacco advertising and marketing.
The MSA b Class actions includes a credit for any amounts paid by participating manufacturers At 31 December 2010, B&W was named as a defendant in eight in subsequent suits brought by the states political subdivisions.
2009: eight separate actions attempting to assert claims on behalf At 31 December 2010, three US medical reimbursement suits were of classes of persons allegedly injured or financially impacted pending against B&W 2009: two.
One of these suits was brought through smoking or where classes of tobacco claimants have been by an Indian tribe in the Indian Tribal Court in South Dakota.
If the classes are or remain certified and the possibility of Another reimbursement suit City of St. Louis is pending against class-based liability is eventually established, it is likely that individual B&W, Investments and several other defendants in the state court in trials will be necessary to resolve any claims by individual plaintiffs.
In City of St. Louis, the plaintiffs, approximately 40 public Class action suits have been filed in a number of states against and non-profit hospitals in Missouri, are seeking reimbursement individual cigarette manufacturers and their parent corporations, ofpast and future alleged smoking-related healthcare costs.
On alleging that the use of the terms lights and ultralights constitutes 26October 2007, the plaintiffs filed a motion requesting the court unfair and deceptive trade practices.
to give collateral estoppel effect to the factual findings in the US The Schwab class-action complaint Schwab was filed in the US Department of Justice case, which motion was denied on 2 June District Court for the Eastern District of New York on 11 May 2004 2010.
On 1 December 2009, certain defendants, including B&W against several defendants, including B&W and certain UK-based andInvestments, filed additional motions for summary judgment.
The complaint challenges the defendants practices Ina series of orders issued from April 2010 through October 2010, with respect to the marketing, advertising, promotion and sale of the court granted summary judgment as to the plaintiffs claims for light cigarettes.
After six years of litigation, including before appellate fraudulent misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, failure courts, the parties on 13 July 2010 filed a stipulation of dismissal.
towarn whether sounding in strict liability or negligence and improper marketing, and entered judgment in favour of the defendants, The Cleary class action complaint was filed in the state court in including B&W and Investments, on these claims.
The court also Chicago, Illinois on 3 June 1998 against several defendants, including dismissed the plaintiffs claims for prejudgment interest, future B&W, B.
A. T Industries p. l. c. Industries and Investments.
Industries damages, and damages allegedly arising out of exposure to was dismissed on jurisdictional grounds by an intermediate appellate environmental tobacco smoke ETS, thus reducing the damages court on 17 March 2000.
The Third Amended Complaint, filed on claims from the US$2 billion originally sought to approximately 3March 2009, alleged that all defendants fraudulently concealed US$600 million.
The claims remaining for trial are product defect facts regarding the addictive nature of nicotine, that certain US whether sounding in strict liability or negligence, restitution, civil defendants but not Investments marketed tobacco products to conspiracy, aiding and abetting and punitive damages.
The trial of underage consumers, and that defendant Philip Morris fraudulently this case began on 31 January 2011, and is expected to last marketed Marlboro Lights cigarettes.
The plaintiffs sought disgorgement approximately four to six months.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 177 Financial statements 30 Contingent liabilities and financial the trial court entered an amended judgment in the case.
The court found that the defendants are jointly and severally liable for funding commitmentscontinued the cost of a court-supervised smoking cessation program and ordered the defendants to deposit approximately US$263 million of profits.
The case was removed to the federal district court on together with interest from 30 June 2004, into a trust for the 13March 2009, and the federal district court denied the plaintiffs funding of the programme.
On 23 April 2010, the Louisiana Court motion to remand the case back to the state court via order dated ofAppeals amended but largely affirmed the trial courts amended 1July 2009.
On 1February 2010, the court granted summary judgment.
Pursuant to the judgment, the defendants are required judgment dismissing the plaintiffs fraudulent concealment claim, todeposit US$242 million with the court, with interest from 21 July and permitted the plaintiffs to reinstate that claim via a new plaintiff.
In September 2010, the defendants application for The court also granted summary judgment dismissing the plaintiffs writ of certiorari or review by the Supreme Court of Louisiana along youth marketing claims and permitted the Marlboro Lights claim to with the defendants motion to stay execution of the judgment was proceed against defendant Philip Morris.
On 24 September 2010, the US Supreme Court granted the court denied the plaintiffs motion for class certification of all three defendants motion to stay the judgment pending the US Supreme putative classes, but granted the plaintiffs leave to reinstate the Courts disposition of the defendants petition for a writ of certiorari, certification motion as to the putative class alleging the fraudulent which was filed on 2December 2010. concealment claim if the plaintiffs identified a new plaintiff to represent that putative class.
On 18 April 2010, the plaintiffs filed Black is a lights class action filed in November 2000 in the Circuit amotion for leave to file a Fourth Amended Complaint, which was Court, City of St. Louis, Missouri.
B&W removed the case to the US granted on 22 April 2010.
The Fourth Amended Complaint alleged District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri on 23 September that all defendants fraudulently concealed facts regarding the 2005.
On 25 October 2005, the plaintiffs filed a motion to remand, addictive nature of nicotine, and that defendant Philip Morris which was granted on 17 March 2006.
On 16 April 2008, the court fraudulently marketed Marlboro Lights cigarettes.
The plaintiffs stayed the case pending US Supreme Court review in Good v. Altria sought disgorgement of profits.
On 7 May 2010, the defendants Group, Inc. A nominal trial date of 10 January 2011 was scheduled, filed a motion to dismiss the plaintiffs Fourth Amended Complaint, but trial did not proceed at that time.
which motion was granted on 22 June 2010.
On 20 August 2010, Brown is a case filed in June 1997 in the Superior Court, San Diego the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal in the US Court of Appeals for County, California.
On 11 April 2001, the court granted in part the the Seventh Circuit.
Briefing on the plaintiffs appeal commenced plaintiffs motion for certification of a class composed of residents inDecember 2010 and is expected to conclude in February 2011. ofCalifornia who smoked at least one of the defendants cigarettes In a medical monitoring class action brought on behalf of Louisiana from 10 June 1993 through 23 April 2001, and who were exposed to smokers Scott the jury returned a verdict on 28 July 2003 in favour the defendants marketing and advertising activities in California.
of the defendants on the plaintiffs claim for medical monitoring and The plaintiffs seek to recover restitution, disgorgement of profits and found that cigarettes were not defectively designed.
However, the other equitable relief under the California Business and Professions jury also made certain findings against the defendants on claims Code.
Certification was granted as to the plaintiffs claims that the relating to fraud, conspiracy, marketing to minors and smoking defendants violated the section of the California Business and cessation.
Notwithstanding these findings, this portion of the trial Professions Code pertaining to unfair competition.
The court, however, did not determine liability as to any individual class member or class refused to certify the class under the California Legal Remedies Act representative.
On 21 May 2004, the jury returned a verdict in the and on the plaintiffs common law claims.
On 7 March 2005, the amount of US$591 million, requiring the defendants to fund a court granted the defendants motion to decertify the class.
On cessation programme to help eligible class members stop smoking.
5September 2006, the California Court of Appeal affirmed the On 29 September 2004, the defendants posted a US$50 million judges order decertifying the class.
On 1 November 2006, the bond, pursuant to legislation that limits the amount of the bond plaintiffs petition for review with the California Supreme Court was to US$50 million collectively for MSA signatories, and noticed their granted.
On 18 May 2009, the California Supreme Court reversed appeal.
RJRT posted US$25 million the portions for RJRT and B&W the decision issued by the trial court and affirmed by the California towards the bond.
On 7 February 2007, the Louisiana Court of Court of Appeal that decertified the class to the extent that it was Appeals upheld the class certification and found the defendants based upon the conclusion that all class members were required to responsible for funding smoking cessation for eligible class members.
demonstrate standing, and remanded the case to the trial court The appellate court also ruled, however, that no class member who forfurther proceedings regarding whether the class representatives began smoking after 1 September 1988 could receive any relief, have, or can demonstrate, standing.
On 10 March 2010, the andthat only those smokers whose claims accrued on or before California Superior Court found that the plaintiffs lights claims 1September 1988 would be eligible for the smoking cessation were not pre-empted by the Federal Cigarette Labelling and programme.
In addition, the appellate court rejected the award of Advertising Act, rendered the courts 30 September 2004 ruling prejudgment interest, and struck eight of the twelve components onthe issue no longer viable, and denied the defendants second ofthe smoking cessation programme.
The defendants application motion for summary judgment.
The plaintiffs filed a tenth amended to the Louisiana Supreme Court for a writ of certiorari was denied on complaint on 10 September 2010.
The defendants petition to the US Supreme Court RJRT and B&W, filed answers to the tenth amended complaint on for a writ of certiorari was denied on 10 June 2008.
Trial is scheduled to begin on 6 May 2011.
178 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 30 Contingent liabilities and financial On 16 July 2003, the plaintiffs filed a motion for rehearing which was denied on 22 September 2003.
On 12 May 2004, the Florida commitmentscontinued Supreme Court agreed to review this case and, on 6 July 2006, it upheld the intermediate appellate courts decision to decertify the Howard is a lights class action filed in February 2000 in the class and vacated the jurys punitive damages verdict.
Further, the CircuitCourt, Madison County, Illinois.
A judge certified a class on Florida Supreme Court permitted the judgments entered for two 18December 2001.
On 6 June 2003, the trial judge issued an order of the three Engle class representatives to stand, but dismissed the staying all proceedings pending resolution of Price v. Philip Morris, judgment entered in favour of the third Engle class representative.
Inc. a lights class action against Philip Morris, Inc. in the Illinois Finally, the Florida Supreme Court has permitted putative Engle class state court.
The plaintiffs appealed this stay order to the Illinois Fifth members to file individual lawsuits against the Engle defendants District Court of Appeals, which affirmed the Circuit Courts stay within one year of the courts decision subsequently extended order on 19 August 2005.
There is currently no activity in the case.
The courts order precludes defendants from Jones is a case filed in December 1998 in the Circuit Court, Jackson litigating certain issues of liability against the putative Engle class County, Missouri.
The defendants removed the case to the US members in these individual actions.
On 7August 2006, the defendants District Court for the Western District of Missouri on 16 February filed a motion for rehearing before the Florida Supreme Court, 1999.
The action was brought by tobacco product users and which was granted in part and denied in part, on 21 December purchasers on behalf of all similarly situated Missouri consumers.
The Florida Supreme Courts 21December 2006 ruling did The plaintiffs allege that their use of the defendants tobacco not amend any of the earlier decisions major holdings, which included products has caused them to become addicted to nicotine.
The decertifying the class, vacating the punitive damages judgment, and plaintiffs seek to recover an unspecified amount of compensatory permitting individual members of the former class to file separate and punitive damages.
The case was remanded to the Circuit Court suits.
Instead, the ruling addressed the claims on which the Engle on 17 February 1999.
There has been limited activity in this case.
jurys phase one verdict will be applicable to the individual lawsuits that were permitted to stand.
On 1 October 2007, the United States Parsons is a case filed in February 1998 in the Circuit Court, Ohio Supreme Court denied the defendants request for certiorari review County, West Virginia.
The plaintiff sued asbestos manufacturers, of the Florida Supreme Courts decision.
UScigarette manufacturers, including B&W, among other defendants, seeking to recover US$1 million in compensatory and As at 31 December 2010, B&W have been served in approximately punitive damages individually and an unspecified amount for the 49 Engle progeny cases in both state and federal courts in Florida.
class in both compensatory and punitive damages.
The class was These cases include approximately 105 plaintiffs.
RJRT as a successor brought on behalf of persons who allegedly have personal injury to B&W are named in approximately 6,286 Engle progeny cases.
claims arising from their exposure to respirable asbestos fibres and The plaintiffs counsel included multiple plaintiffs in most of the cases cigarette smoke.
The case has been stayed pending a final resolution filed, so case totals have increased over the past year as Florida courts of the plaintiffs motion to refer tobacco litigation to the judicial panel ordered cases originally filed as multi-plaintiff actions to be severed.
onmultidistrict litigation filed in In Re: Tobacco Litigation in the In the first phase three trial of an individual Engle class member Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia.
On 26 December 2000, Lukacs, the jury awarded the plaintiff US$37.5 million in compensatory three defendants, Nitral Liquidators, Inc. Desseaux Corporation of damages B&Ws share: US$8.4 million on 11 June 2002.
On 1 April North American and Armstrong World Industries, filed bankruptcy 2003, the jury award was reduced to US$25.1million B&Ws share: petitions in the US Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware.
US$5.6 million but no final judgment was entered into because the Pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code, Parsons is automatically stayed trial court postponed the entry of final judgment until the Engle with respect to all defendants.
The trial court, on 14 August 2008, Young is a case filed in November 1997 in the Circuit Court, Orleans issuedan order entering judgment for the plaintiff that awarded Parish, Louisiana.
The plaintiffs brought an ETS class action on behalf US$24.8 million to the plaintiff plus interest, for which the of all residents of Louisiana who, though not themselves cigarette defendants would be jointly and severally liable.
On 17October smokers, have been exposed to second-hand smoke from cigarettes 2008, the plaintiff withdrew her request for punitive damages.
which were manufactured by the defendants, and who allegedly On12 November 2008, the trial court entered final judgment.
suffered injury as a result of that exposure.
The plaintiffs seek to On1December 2008, the defendants filed a notice of appeal.
recover an unspecified amount of compensatory and punitive damages.
On17March 2010, the Third District Court of Appeal affirmed On 13 October 2004, the trial court stayed this case pending the the ruling of the trial court.
The defendants motion for rehearing outcome of appellate review in the Scott class action in Louisiana and petition for rehearing en banc was denied on 18 May 2010. discussed above.
RJRT expensed and paid the final judgment in the amount of approximately US$15.2 million on 18 June 2010.
In Engle a case in Florida, a jury awarded a total of US$12.7 million to three class representatives, and in a later stage of the three-phase As at 31 December 2010, there have been 10 additional phase three trial procedure adopted in this case, a jury assessed US$17.6 billion Engle trials naming RJRT as successor to B&W, which proceeded to in punitive damages against B&W.
On 21 May 2003, the intermediate verdict.
Of these ten trials, three resulted in the plaintiffs verdicts appellate Court reversed the trial courts judgment and remanded Douglas, Putney, Grossman.
In Douglas, the jury awarded US$5 the case to the trial court with instructions to fide-certify the class.
million in compensatory damages against all defendants on 10 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 179 Financial statements 30 Contingent liabilities and financial appealed to an intermediate New York State appellate court.
Oral argument was heard on 8 May 2006.
The appellate court affirmed commitmentscontinued the judgment on 5 July 2006, except insofar as it dismissed the plaintiffs design defect claims.
B&W filed a motion for leave to March 2010, allocating US$250,000 of the award to RJRT.
The reargue, or in the alternative, for leave to appeal to the New York defendants filed notice of appeal on 28 June 2010.
On 29 June 2010, Court of Appeals, on 3 August 2006.
The intermediate appellate RJRT posted a supersedeas bond in the amount of US$250,000.
In court denied this motion on 5October 2006.
On 8 December 2006, Putney, the jury awarded US$15,086,688 in compensatory damages the trial judge granted the plaintiffs application for entry of and US$5 million in punitive damages on 26 April 2010, allocating judgment in the amounts of US$5million in punitive damages and US$4,526,000 in compensatory damages and US$2.5 million in US$175,000 in compensatory damages.
The trial court also granted punitive damages to RJRT.
The defendants filed a notice of appeal the plaintiffs motion to vacate that part of the 2004 order granting on30 August 2010, and the plaintiff filed a notice of cross appeal on a new trial unless the parties agreed to an increase in compensatory 31August 2010.
On 20 December 2010, RJRT posted a supersedeas damages to US$500,000.
RJRT posted a bond in the approximate bond in the amount of US$2,372,765.
In Grossman, the jury amount of US$8.018 million on 3 July 2007.
B&W appealed from awarded US$1,934,727 in compensatory damages on 29 April 2010, final judgment on 3 July 2007 to an intermediate New York State allocating US$483,682 to RJRT.
The defendants filed a notice of appellate court.
Oral argument was heard on 28 January 2009.
The plaintiff filed a notice of cross appeal 29 September 2009, the appellate court issued a decision modifying on19 July 2010.
On 19 July 2010, RJRT posted a supersedeas bond the final judgment by deleting the award of punitive damages, and inthe amount of US$483,682.
remanding the case to the trial court for a new trial on the issue of In June 2009, the Florida legislature amended its existing bond punitive damages.
On 22 December 2009, the plaintiff requested an cap statute by adding a US$200 million bond cap that applies to all extension of time to move for leave to appeal to the New York Court phase three Engle cases in the aggregate, and establishes individual of Appeals, and for leave to reargue the case to the appellate court.
bond caps for individual cases in amounts that vary depending on On 15 January 2010, the appellate court denied the plaintiffs the number of judgments in effect at a given time.
In the absence motion for additional time to seek leave to appeal to the New York of further legislative action, this bond cap will remain in effect until Court of Appeals, but granted the plaintiff more time to file a 31December 2012. motion for leave to reargue to the appellate court.
The plaintiffs motion for leave to reargue was denied by the appellate court on c Individual cases 12March 2010.
As at 31 December 2010, no date has been set for Approximately 3,161 cases were pending against B&W at anew trial on the issue of punitive damages.
31December 2010 2009: 3,191 filed by or on behalf of individuals in which it is contended that diseases or deaths have been caused On 1 February 2005, a Missouri jury Lincoln Smith awarded by cigarette smoking or by exposure to ETS.
Of these cases, US$500,000 in compensatory damages against B&W and then, approximately: a 2,590 are ETS cases brought by flight attendants on 2February 2005, awarded US$20 million in punitive damages, who were members of a class action Broin that was settled on also against B&W.
On 1 June 2005, B&W filed its notice of appeal.
terms that allow compensatory but not punitive damages claims Oral argument was heard on 31 August 2006.
On 31 July 2007, an by class members: b 429 of the individual cases against B&W are intermediate Missouri appellate court affirmed the compensatory cases brought in consolidated proceedings in West Virginia, where damages award, but it reversed the punitive damages award, the first phase of the trial is scheduled to begin on 17 October 2011: reasoning that the plaintiffs failed to produce sufficient evidence to c 49 are Engle progeny cases that have been filed directly against justify the verdict.
The majority of the court would have remanded B&W, and d 93 are cases filed by other individuals 76 of which the case for a second trial, limited to punitive damages, but a name B&W and 17 of which name RJRT as successor to B&W.
As dissenting judge transferred the case to the Missouri Supreme mentioned above there are a further 6,286 Engle progeny cases Court, as permitted by Missouri law.
Oral argument was heard by which name RJRT as successor to B&W.
These cases are subject the Missouri Supreme Court on 13 February 2008.
On 31 July 2008, to the indemnity set out above and are not detailed here.
the Missouri Supreme Court transferred the case back to the intermediate appellate court for further proceedings.
In a decision There were three individual cases that resulted in verdicts against entered on 16 December 2008, the intermediate appellate court B&W and which remained on appeal during 2010 not including again upheld the award of compensatory damages and reversed the Lukacs, see above : jurys award of US$20 million in punitive damages, sending the case In December 2003, a New York jury Frankson awarded US$350,000 back to the trial court for a new trial on punitive damages.
Following in compensatory damages against B&W and two industry organisations.
a new trial, on 20 August 2009, a Missouri jury returned a verdict In January 2004, the same jury awarded US$20 million in punitive awarding US$1.5 million in punitive damages against B&W.
On 22 June 2004, the trial judge granted a new trial 24September 2009, B&W filed a motion for a new trial and a unless the parties agreed to an increase in compensatory damages motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict.
On the same date, to US$500,000 and a decrease in punitive damages to US$5 million, the plaintiffs filed a motion for additur, asking the court to increase of which US$4 million would be awarded against B&W.
The plaintiff the amount of punitive damages from US$1.5 million to US$20 agreed to a decrease in punitive damages, but B&W has not agreed million, and a motion to vacate, modify or set aside judgment, or to an increase in compensatory damages.
On 25 January 2005, B&W 180 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 30 Contingent liabilities and financial determinative issues in the litigation.
The first issue is whether Flintkotes claim for malpractice against Sullivan & Cromwell LLP is commitmentscontinued time barred.
On 31 January 2011, the court entered a preliminary ruling stating that the complaint was time barred and that Sullivan in the alternative, for a new trial.
On 21 December 2009, the court & Cromwell LLP is entitled to dismissal.
The second issue involves an denied the plaintiffs and B&Ws post-trial motions.
On 30 December enquiry into the two dividends and the circumstances surrounding 2009, B&W filed a notice of appeal.
On 31December 2009, the them, including issues involving fraudulent conveyance.
Certain plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal.
legal issues regarding fraudulent conveyance were briefed and, at On 18 March 2005, a New York jury Rose awarded US$1.7 million hearings held on 22 December 2010 and 2 February 2011, the court in compensatory damages against B&W.
On 18 August 2005, B&W further refined the list of issues involving fraudulent conveyance.
filed its notice of appeal.
RJRT posted a bond in the approximate In addition, two other issues have emerged: 1 whether Flintkote amount of US$2.058 million on 7 February 2006.
Oral argument or certain asbestos tort claimants are able to pursue alter ego on this appeal was heard on 12 December 2006 by an intermediate claims against Imperial, and 2 whether Flintkote should be New York appellate court.
On 10 April 2008, the appellate court judicially estopped from asserting certain fraudulent conveyance reversed the judgment in the plaintiffs favour and ordered that remedies in light of prior inconsistent statements it made during the case be dismissed.
On 8 May 2008, the plaintiff filed a notice of the course of the litigation.
While it is expected that bench trials appeal to New Yorks Court of Appeals.
On 16 December 2008, the on all of these issues will occur in 2011, it is unclear when the court New York Court of Appeals affirmed the decision of the appellate might rule on the issues.
court dismissing the plaintiffs complaint.
On 14 January 2009, the In Wisconsin, the authorities have identified potentially responsible plaintiff filed a motion seeking leave to reargue the 16 December parties PRPs to fund the clean up of river sediments in the lower 2008 decision and order of the New York Court of Appeals, which Fox River, Wisconsin.
The pollution was caused by discharges of was denied by an order dated 26 March 2009.
The plaintiff filed PCBs from paper mills and other facilities operating close to the apetition for a writ of certiorari in the US Supreme Court in June river.
The cost of the clean up work has been estimated to be in 2009, which was denied on 5 October 2009. excess of US$900 million.
Among the potentially responsible parties d Other claims are NCR Corporation NCR and Appleton Papers Inc. Appleton The Flintkote Company Flintkote, a US asbestos production and sales who are liable for the clean up costs in a large portion of the river company, was included in the acquisition of Genstar Corporation under the terms of a consent decree.
In 1978, Industries purchased by Imasco Limiteds subsidiary, Imasco Enterprises, Inc. in 1986 and what was then NCRs Appleton Papers Division from NCR.
In 1978, became a Group subsidiary following the restructuring of Imasco Industries also incorporated a US entity by the name of BATUS, Inc. Limited now Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited Imperial, the BATUS, which in 1980 became the holding company for all of Groups operating company in Canada in 2000.
Soon after this Industries US subsidiaries, including Appleton.
As the holding acquisition, and as part of the acquisition plan, Genstar Corporation company, BATUS obtained insurance policies for itself and its began to sell most of its assets, including the non-asbestos related subsidiaries that included coverage for certain environmental liabilities.
operations and subsidiaries of Flintkote.
The liquidation of Flintkote Industries BATUS spun off the Appleton business in 1990 to Wiggins assets produced cash proceeds and, having obtained advice from Teape Appleton p. l. c. and Wiggins Teape Appleton Holdings p. l. c. the law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and other advice that now known as Arjo Wiggins Appleton Ltd. and Arjo Wiggins US sufficient assets would remain to satisfy liabilities, Flintkote authorised Holdings Ltd. collectively, the AWA Entities, obtaining full the payment of a dividend of US$170.2 million in 1986 and a further indemnities from AWA Entities for past and future environmental dividend of US$355 million in 1987.
Disputes between NCR, Appleton, the AWA Entities, and Genstar Pacific Corporation, divested Flintkote and then, in 2004, Industries as to the indemnities given and received under the Flintkote filed for bankruptcy in the United States Bankruptcy Court purchase agreement in 1978 have been the subject of arbitrations for the District of Delaware.
In 2006, Flintkote, representatives of in1998 and 2006.
Under the terms of the arbitration awards, both the present and future asbestos claimants, and individual Industries and Appleton the AWA Entities have an obligation to asbestos claimants were permitted by the bankruptcy court to file share the costs of environmental claims with NCR 60:40, but acomplaint against Imperial and numerous other defendants Industries has never been required to pay any sums in this regard including Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, for the recovery of the dividends, because Appleton and the AWA Entities have paid the non NCR plus interest, and other compensation under various legal and 60percent share of the clean up costs to date, and the authorities equitable theories, including seeking a determination that Imperial have not identified Industries or BATUS as PRPs.
However, there is a is Flintkotes alter ego and is responsible for all of Flintkotes risk for Industries that Appleton and the AWA Entities will exhaust asbestos tort liabilities.
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and Imperial have the recoverable insurance policies prior to the completion of the since filed cross complaints against each other.
The parties are mandated clean up work and that Appleton and the AWA Entities presently engaged in case management discussions to establish the will not have sufficient assets of their own to pay the clean up scope and manner of discovery in this case.
Although the Flintkote obligations, leaving Industries with the responsibility to pay the litigation is at a preliminary stage, the judge has stated an intention nonNCR share of the remaining clean up costs.
There is a further to determine several discrete issues for resolution in a series of risk that the clean up costs for the project will increase beyond bifurcated bench trials in an effort to simplify or clarify the current estimates.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 181 Financial statements 30 Contingent liabilities and financial On 10 August 2007, the defendants filed their initial appellate briefs to the Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit.
All defendants filed a commitmentscontinued joint appellate brief, and Investments also filed its own brief which UK-based Group companies raised the issue of whether Congress intended for RICO to apply to Investments has been served in the following US cases pending at extraterritorial conduct by a foreign defendant.
On 19 November 31 December 2010: a medical reimbursement case, City of St. Louis, 2007, the government filed its opposition and cross-appeal brief, and Cleary, a class action see above under medical reimbursement seeking to reinstate certain remedial relief, including its disgorgement cases and class actions respectively : the US Department of Justice claims.
On 22 May 2009, a three-judge appellate panel unanimously case see below : an anti-trust case, Daric Smith see below : and affirmed the district courts RICO liability judgment against Investments, two individual actions, Eiser and Perry, which are currently dormant.
Altria, Philip Morris, RJRT and Lorillard, ordered the dismissal of No other UK based Group company has been served in a US product CTRand TI two defunct US trade associations that were not covered liability case pending as at 31 December 2010. by the district courts injunctive remedies, and remanded for further factual findings and clarification as to whether liability should be Conduct-based claims imposed against B&W, based on changes in the nature of B&Ws On 22 September 1999, the US Department of Justice brought an business operations.
The panel also remanded on four discrete issues action in the US District Court for the District of Columbia against relating to the remedies, including for the district court to reformulate various industry members, including RJRT, B&W, Industries and the injunction on the use of low-tar descriptors to exempt foreign Investments.
Industries was dismissed for lack of personal jurisdiction activities that have no substantial, direct, and foreseeable domestic on 28 September 2000.
The government sought to recover federal effects.
The governments cross-appeal seeking disgorgement of funds expended in providing healthcare to smokers who have past profits and the funding of smoking education and cessation developed diseases and injuries alleged to be smoking-related, and, programmes was denied.
Investments petition for panel rehearing in addition, sought, pursuant to RICO, disgorgement of profits the and rehearing en banc were filed on 31 July 2009 and was denied government contends were earned as a consequence of a RICO on 22 September 2009 by the DC Circuit.
On 28 September 2000, the district court dismissed theportion of the claim which sought recovery of federal funds On 19 February 2010, the defendants and the government filed expended in providing healthcare to smokers who have developed certiorari petitions with the US Supreme Court.
On 28 June 2010, diseases and injuries alleged to be smoking-related.
The non-jury the US Supreme Court declined to grant certiorari on all petitions.
trial of the RICO portion of the claim began on 21September 2004, On 23 July 2010, Investments filed a petition for rehearing before and ended on 9 June 2005.
On 17 November 2004, the US Court the US Supreme Court, on the basis of an intervening decision by ofAppeals for the DC Circuit heard an appeal by the defendants the High Court that invalidated the effects test the district court against an earlier district court decision that disgorgement of profits and DC Circuit both used in concluding that the RICO statute is an appropriate remedy for the RICO violations alleged by the applied to Investments foreign conduct.
The US Supreme Court government.
On 4 February 2005, the DC Circuit allowed the denied Investments rehearing petition on 3 September 2010. appeal, ruling that the government could not claim disgorgement On 7 July 2010, the DC Circuit issued its remand returning the case ofprofits.
On 17 October 2005, the US Supreme Court declined to to the district court for further proceedings.
On 22 December 2010, hear the appeal by the US government in respect of the claim for the district court ordered, among other things, that B&W is no longer disgorgement of US$280 billion of past profits from the defendants.
a defendant and is therefore not subject to the courts injunction.
On 17 August 2006, the district court issued its final judgment, On 28 December 2010, the government filed a motion to compel consisting of some 1,600 pages of factual findings and legal Investments compliance with the district courts 17August 2006 conclusions.
The court found in favour of the government, and order.
Investments opposition to the governments motion to compel against certain defendants, including B&W and Investments.
compliance along with Investments motion for reconsideration The court also ordered a wide array of injunctive relief, including of the liability judgment against it on the basis of an intervening a ban on the use of lights and other similar descriptors.
Compliance change in controlling law was filed on 21 January 2011. with the court-ordered remedies may cost RJRT and Investments In the Daric Smith case, purchasers of cigarettes in the State of Kansas millions of dollars, although remedial compliance has been stayed brought a class action in the Kansas State Court against B&W, over the last several years pending appellate review.
In addition, Investments and certain other tobacco companies seeking injunctive the government is seeking the recovery of roughly US$1.9 million relief, treble damages, interest and costs.
The allegations are that plus accruable interest in litigation costs, with RJRT having already the defendants participated in a conspiracy to fix or maintain the paid approximately US$780,000 in costs on behalf of itself and B&W.
price of cigarettes sold in the US, including the State of Kansas, in Investments filed a praecipe with the district court on 28September violation of the Kansas Restraint of Trade Act.
Following a hearing on 2010 stating that it is not yet obligated to pay costs inasmuch as 8 December 2008 on the plaintiffs motion to compel Investments there has not been final resolution of all appeals in this matter to produce documents, Investments identified relevant documents including the extraterritorial reach, if any, of the RICO statute for discovery and Judge Smith now retired issued an order basedon an intervening change in law.
compelling disclosure of all of Investments documents without an 182 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 30 Contingent liabilities and financial decision and declared the Recovery Act to be constitutionally valid.
The defendants appealed to the Supreme Court of Canada in June commitmentscontinued and the court gave its judgment in September 2005 dismissing the in camera review.
On 15 October 2009, Investments filed a motion appeals and declaring the Act to be constitutionally valid.
for reconsideration of Judge Smiths order.
A decision on this is The federal government was enjoined by a Third Party Notice, and awaited.
Following the appointment of a new judge, in October presented a Motion to Strike the claim out.
The hearing took place and November 2010, all defendants moved for summary judgment.
during the week of 3 March 2008 and the court found in favour of Those motions have not yet been fully briefed.
The defendants appealed that decision and Product liability outside the United States the hearing was held during the week of 1 June 2009.
On 8December At 31 December 2010, active claims against the Groups companies 2009, the British Columbia Court of Appeal handed down its decision existed in 22 markets outside the US 2009: 22 but the only in both this case and the Knight class action.
This appeal was granted markets with more than five claims were Argentina, Brazil, Canada, in part.
The Court of Appeal held that it was not plain and obvious Chile, Italy, Nigeria, and the Republic of Ireland 2009: five.
Medical that the federal government did not owe a duty of care to tobacco reimbursement actions are being brought in Canada, Argentina, manufacturers or consumers when it implemented its tobacco Brazil, Colombia, Israel, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and Spain.
a Medical reimbursement cases On 8 February 2010, the federal government sought leave to Brazil appealthis decision to the Supreme Court of Canada.
On 10 March, In August 2007, the So Paulo Public Prosecutors office filed the defendant filed response materials and a cross appeal.
The a medical reimbursement claim against Souza Cruz.
A similar government of British Columbia sought leave to oppose the claim was lodged against Philip Morris.
Souza Cruzs motion to defendants cross appeal in part.
On 20 May, the Supreme Court consolidate the two claims was rejected and instead this case was ofCanada granted leave to appeal both in respect of the federal removed to a different lower court.
Souza Cruz filed a motion to governments application and the defendants conditional cross reconsider the refusal for consolidation and an interlocutory appeal applications.
The appeal is scheduled to be heard on 24 February 2011. against assignment to the lower court.
At the same time, the Public The underlying medical reimbursement action remains at a Prosecutor filed a motion challenging the connection between the preliminary case management stage.
Damages have not yet been two cases, which argument the State Court of Appeals accepted in quantified by the plaintiff.
Given the Supreme Court application, August 2010 and ordered the two cases to progress independently.
and a number of other factors including delay on the part of the Souza Cruz subsequently filed a motion for clarification opposing plaintiff in producing his damages modelling materials, the trial the ruling, which is now pending review with the reporting justice.
The lower court proceedings against Souza Cruz are expected to resume in due course.
Non-Canadian defendants challenged the personal jurisdiction of the British Columbia Court and those motions were heard in the Canada Supreme Court of British Columbia.
On 23 June 2005, the court In Canada there are three statutory actions for recovery of healthcare dismissed all defendants motions, finding that there is a real and costs arising from the treatment of smoking and health related substantial connection between British Columbia and the foreign diseases.
These proceedings name various group companies.
Subsequently, the defendants were granted leave to Legislation enabling provincial governments to recover the healthcare appeal that ruling to the Court of Appeal of British Columbia.
The costs has been enacted in British Columbia, New Brunswick, Ontario appeal was dismissed on 15 September 2006.
The defendants filed and Quebec.
Actions have begun against various Group companies in leave to appeal to the Supreme Court on 10 November 2006, and British Columbia, New Brunswick and Ontario.
In Quebec, the Group that application was denied on 5 April 2007. companies are challenging the legislation, and Quebec has not filed its own action.
Newfoundland is in the process of referring legislation to The government of New Brunswick has brought a medical the Newfoundland Court of Appeals.
Similar legislation has also been reimbursement claim against domestic and foreign tobacco passed and is also being considered by other Canadian provinces.
manufacturers, pursuant to the provisions of the Recovery Act passed in that Province in June 2006.
The Company, Investments, The government of British Columbia brought a claim pursuant to Industries, Imperial and Carreras Rothmans Limited the UK the provisions of the Tobacco Damages and Health Care Costs Companies have all been named as defendants.
The government Recovery Act 2000 the Recovery Act against domestic and foreign filed a statement of claim on 13 March 2008.
The Group defendants manufacturers seeking to recover the plaintiffs costs of healthcare were served with the Notice of Action and Statement of Claim on benefits.
Imperial, Investments, Industries and other former Rothmans 2June 2008.
A case management conference was held on 8 January Group companies are named as defendants.
The constitutionality 2009 so that other defendants could challenge the use of a contingent ofthe Recovery Act was challenged by certain defendants and, fee arrangement CFA for the plaintiffs lawyer.
This challenge was on5June 2003, the British Columbia Supreme Court found the refused at first instance.
Leave to appeal was granted on limited Recovery Act to be beyond the competence of the British Columbia grounds.
These grounds, upon which leave was denied, were appealed legislature and, accordingly, dismissed the governments claim.
The directly to the Supreme Court of Canada.
On 13 May 2010, the government appealed the decision to the British Columbia Court New Brunswick Court of Appeal dismissed Imperials appeal.
ofAppeal which, on 20 May 2004, overturned the lower courts Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 183 Financial statements 30 Contingent liabilities and financial As at 31 December 2010, the actions that had been filed by the Attorneys-General of Ondo State and of Ekiti State were voluntarily commitmentscontinued discontinued by the plaintiffs without prejudice to re-file on TheSupreme Court of Canada subsequently denied leave on 5October 2009 and 18 June 2009, respectively.
The action filed by allaspects of the CFA challenge, thus ending this preliminary the Attorney-General of Akwa Ibom State was struck out without challenge.
The appeal was dismissed and an application to appeal prejudice for lack of prosecution on 19 October 2009. tothe Supreme Court was denied on 21 October 2010.
The UK On 21 February 2008, the Lagos action was voluntarily discontinued Companies have challenged the courts jurisdiction and in by the plaintiffs.
On 13 March 2008, the Lagos Attorney General November 2010 all four challenges were refused.
Appeals are filed a substantially similar action which was marked as qualified ongoing.
No damages have yetbeen quantified by the plaintiff.
under Lagos States Fast-Track system.
The Fast-Track system The government of the Province of Ontario has also filed a provides for resolution of the dispute within an eight-month C$50billion medical reimbursement claim against domestic and time-period after filing.
BAT Nigeria, the Company and Investments foreign tobacco manufacturers, pursuant to the provisions of the have all been served in the new action, and have filed preliminary Tobacco Damages and Health Care Costs Recovery Act 2009.
At a hearing on 16 September 2008, because service UK Companies have all been named as defendants.
Imperial was was yet to be completed on all defendants, the court directed served on 30 September 2009 and the UK Companies were served that the case no longer qualified to be heard on the Fast Track.
A case management judge has been appointed On 18September 2009, the court issued a ruling denying the and the jurisdiction motions filed by the UK Companies will be preliminary objections filed by the Company and Investments on heard first.
The hearing is scheduled for April 2011. the basis that the court was competent to hear the case as it related to those defendants, that the Company and Investments are Colombia necessary parties to the action and that the suit therefore was not British American Tobacco South America Limited BAT South America liable to be struck out as against those defendants.
On 2 October was served on 18 July 2008 in a public interest action that has a 2009, the Company and Investments filed notices of appeal from medical reimbursement component.
The case was brought by two the entirety of the courts ruling as it related to their respective Colombian citizens alleging that the defendant violated numerous objections.
On 15 October and 19 October 2009, respectively, the collective interests and rights of the Colombian population.
Company and Investments filed motions to stay all proceedings Inaddition to equitable and injunctive relief being sought, the pending the resolution of their appeals, which motion was granted plaintiffs are seeking 25 per cent of smoking-related healthcare costs by the High Court on 20 September 2010.
On 26 November 2010, since the time that British American Tobacco has been operating in the Lagos Attorney General filed a motion for leave to appeal the Colombia.
Thereafter, the plaintiffs also request that the company High Courts order granting a stay, which motion remains pending contribute US$50 million a year to a fund.
BAT South America before the Court of Appeal.
initially filed preliminary objections to the action, with a view to joining the claim with another class action, the Sandra Florez action On 8 July 2008, the High Court of Gombe State issued a ruling on which made substantially similar allegations and sought similar the preliminary objections filed by the Company, Investments and relief.
However, as the Florez case was decided in BAT South other defendants in the case, setting aside the service on all Americas favour in September 2009, BAT South America will submit defendants and striking out the Gombe suit.
In its decision, the a full defence in due course.
court held that the writs served on the defendants were invalid, the plaintiff had failed to pay the requisite filing fees, and that based Israel on these filing defects, the court was not competent to assume In Israel, a medical reimbursement claim was brought against jurisdiction.
The court also stated, however, that the plaintiff, Industries, B&W, Investments and B.
A. T U. K. and Export Limited through its statement of claim and affidavit evidence filed in support BATUKE, amongst others, by Clalit Health Services.
The plaintiff of its ex parte motion for leave to serve outside the jurisdiction, had claims damages of NIS7.6 billion and seeks injunctive relief.
On satisfied the requirements for service outside the jurisdiction.
29March 2005, B&W, Investments and BATUKE argued for leave Although the plaintiff has not appealed from the courts decision, to appeal the denial of their application to dismiss the action on the plaintiff has filed a renewed action in the High Court of Gombe the grounds of remoteness and a decision from the Supreme Court State.
BAT Nigeria, the Company and Investments have filed notices on this issue is still awaited.
of preliminary objection in the renewed action.
On 16 December Nigeria 2010, the Gombe High Court heard argument on the defendants Health care recoupment actions have also been brought by five service and jurisdictional objections.
Nigerian states Lagos, Kano, Gombe, Oyo, Ogun and by the In the Oyo State case the British American Tobacco companies filed federal government of Nigeria, each seeking the equivalent of preliminary objections.
These were partially granted on 22 June billions of US dollars for costs allegedly incurred by the state and 2010 and service was set aside.
The issuance of the writ was, federal governments in treating smoking-related illnesses.
British however, not set aside and the Company and Investments are American Tobacco Nigeria Limited BAT Nigeria has been named appealing this decision based on their jurisdictional objections.
as a defendant in each of the cases: the Company and Investments As at 31 December 2010, the appeals remain pending, and the have been named as defendants in six of the cases.
plaintiff has not re-served the writ on the British American Tobacco defendants.
184 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 30 Contingent liabilities and financial filed a new  claim following inactivity on their previous claim, which proceedings are still progressing.
commitmentscontinued Preliminary objections were made in May 2010 and the parties are In Kano, the preliminary objections filed by the Company and awaiting the courts ruling.
Investments were dismissed on 16 April 2010.
The Company and Investments have appealed the decision and sought a stay of b Class actions proceedings.
On 13 May 2010, the plaintiff filed a motion for Brazil preliminary injunction which seeks inter alia to prevent the There are five class actions being brought in Brazil.
One is also defendants from marketing tobacco products or causing them to a medical reimbursement, and is therefore discussed above.
be sold to underage purchasers or near any primary or secondary In 1995, the Associao fide Defesa da Sade do Fumante ADESF school in Kano State.
At a hearing on 8 December 2010 the court class action was filed against Souza Cruz S. A. Souza Cruz and heard argument concerning the order in which the stay application, Philip Morris in the So Paulo Lower Civil Court alleging that the injunction motion, and other pending matters will be heard, and defendants are liable to a class of smokers and former smokers for adjourned to 20 January 2011 for ruling.
On 20 January 2011, the failing to warn of cigarette addiction.
The case was stayed in 2004 court ruled that it would first hear Nigerias preliminary objections pending the defendants appeal from a decision issued by the lower to the courts jurisdiction, and subsequently would hear the civil court on 7 April 2004.
That lower court decision held that the defendants stay applications together with the plaintiffs injunction defendants had not met their burden of proving that cigarette motion, and adjourned to 22 February 2011 for a hearing on BAT smoking was not addictive or harmful to health, notwithstanding an Nigerias objections.
earlier interlocutory order that the So Paulo Court of Appeals had In Ogun, preliminary objections were filed by BAT Nigeria, the issued, which directed the trial court to allow more evidence to be Company and Investments, but were rejected by the court on taken before rendering its decision.
All three British American Tobacco defendants have Paulo Court of Appeals overturned the lower courts unfavourable filed appeals.
On 24 May 2010, the plaintiff filed a motion for decision of 2004, finding that the lower court had failed to provide preliminary injunction which seeks inter alia to prevent the the defendants with an opportunity to produce evidence.
The case defendants from marketing tobacco products or causing them to now returns to the lower court for production of evidence and a be sold to underage purchasers or near any primary or secondary new judgment.
On 19 March 2009, the Lower Civil Court ordered school in Ogun State.
On 15 and 19 October 2010, the Company the previous court-appointed medical expert to be replaced and and Investments, respectively, filed motions in the Court of Appeal a new advertising expert appointed.
The parties have submitted for a stay of proceedings pending their appeals.
On 21 October questions to these court-appointed experts who have both delivered 2010, the High Court adjourned proceedings without date pending their reports.
The plaintiff has provided comments on both expert resolution of the stay motions.
As at 31 December 2010, the stay reports.
Souza Cruz responded with its comments and submissions motions remain pending before the Court of Appeal and a hearing from its own experts on 26 November 2010. is scheduled for 31 March 2011.
The Brazilian Association for the Defense of Consumers Health Saudi Arabia Saudecon filed a class action against Souza Cruz in the City of In Saudi Arabia, in 2007, there were reports that the Ministry of Porto Alegre, Brazil on 3 November 2008.
The plaintiff purports to Health was pursuing a healthcare recoupment action in the Riyadh represent all Brazilian smokers whom, it alleges, are unable to quit General Court against a number of distributors and agents.
As at smoking and lack access to cessation treatments.
The plaintiff is 31December 2010, no Group company has been served with seeking an order requiring the named defendants to fund, according process.
The Ministry of Health is reportedly seeking damages of to their market share, the purchase of cessation treatments for these at least 127 billion Saudi riyals.
Hearings take place on average every smokers over a minimum period of two years.
Souza Cruz was six months.
served with this complaint on 19 November 2008.
On 18 May 2009, the case was dismissed with judgment on the merits.
The plaintiffs In addition, a separate medical reimbursement action has reportedly appealed in August 2009 and Souza Cruz and Philip Morris both been filed by the King Faisal Specialist Hospital in the Riyadh responded.
The parties are now awaiting judgment from the State GeneralCourt, naming BAT Company Limited as a defendant.
Court of Appeals 10th Civil Chamber.
Asat31December 2010, no Group company had been served withprocess in the action.
A class action was filed against Souza Cruz by the Association of Exploited Consumers of the federal District, requesting a court order Spain to prevent Souza Cruz selling cigarettes in Brazil.
In December 2006, In early 2006, the Junta fide Andalucia, in Spain, filed a medical the federal District Court of Appeals confirmed a favourable lower reimbursement action against the State and tobacco companies court decision which had found the claim groundless and unlawful.
including BAT Espaa S. A. before the  The plaintiff appealed that ruling, but on 12 March 2009 the Superior courts.
The State filed preliminary objections to the Juntas claim, Court affirmed the ruling and rejected the plaintiffs appeal.
The with tobacco companies filing supporting briefs.
The court upheld plaintiff appealed again, but on 23 March 2009, in a unanimous these preliminary objections and dismissed the claim in November decision, the Superior Court rejected the plaintiffs appeal.
The Juntas appeal of this ruling to the Supreme Court was appeal is now pending before the federal Supreme Court.
However, in May 2009, the Junta also Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 185 Financial statements 30 Contingent liabilities and financial Instead it seeks compensation for amounts spent on light and mild products and a disgorgement of profits from Imperial.
The motion commitmentscontinued of the federal government to strike out the third party notice issued In 2004, the State of Sergipe instigated a class action seeking against them by Imperial was heard in February 2006 and was compensation for smokers in Sergipe State who purportedly sought granted but was appealed by Imperial and the appeal was heard to quit smoking.
The lower court denied the plaintiffs request for inJune 2009 in conjunction with the British Columbia medical early relief and determined ANVISA a federal government health reimbursement.
The Court of Appeal went so far as to say that it was agency be ordered to join the case as co-defendants.
As ANVISA is not plain and obvious that the federal government did not owe a a federal agency, the case was removed to the federal court where duty of care to manufacturers or indeed to the class itself.
Therefore, ANVISA successfully argued that it lacked standing to be sued.
The the government of Canada faces potential liability to claims of claim against ANVISA was dismissed and the federal court sent the product liability or misrepresentation.
The government has appealed case back to the lower state court for proceedings to continue, this decision and the appeal will be heard on 24 February 2011. however, the action was stayed on 18 December 2009 pending On 9 December 2009, Imperial was served with a class action filed a decision by the Superior Court on which court has jurisdiction.
by Ontario tobacco farmers and the Provincial Marketing Board.
On 26 March 2010 the Superior Court determined that it has Theplaintiffs allege that, during the timeframe, the companies jurisdiction of the matter and a decision from the court is now pending.
improperly paid lower prices for tobacco leaf destined for duty-free Bulgaria products, as opposed to the higher domestic leaf price.
Imperial In March 2008, a smoking-related consumer fraud class action deposited the amount owing to the government of Ontario was filed in the Sofia City Court of Bulgaria against 21 defendants, pursuant to the Comprehensive Agreement into an escrow account, including the following British American Tobacco-affiliated as Imperial believes that the Growers claim could fall within the companies: British-American Tobacco Polska S. A. British-American definition of a released claim according to the Comprehensive Tobacco Romania Investments SRL, House of Prince A S, and Agreement.
In response, the Ontario government filed an action Scandinavian Tobacco S. A.
On 24 September 2008, the claim was against Imperial, seeking a declaration to the effect that the dismissed on procedural grounds, and the plaintiff appealed this Growers action is valid in its own right, and that it is not a Released ruling.
On 11 November 2008, the Court of Appeal granted the Claim.
No monetary damages are being claimed against Imperial plaintiffs appeal and on 2 December 2008, the Sofia City Court by the government of Ontario.
ordered the plaintiff to meet various evidentiary and procedural On 26 July 2010, Imperial argued its preliminary motion in the conditions before proceeding further with this claim.
An ex parte Ontario claim.
Imperial was successful in its application and the hearing took place on 18 November 2010 to allow the plaintiff to court ordered that the Ontario claim be stayed in favour of the present evidence on his ability to bring the claim and on the viability arbitration provisions stipulated in the Comprehensive Agreement of the claim itself.
On 24 November 2010, the Sofia City Court and raised by Imperial in its Notice of Arbitration.
The Province of issued an order denying plaintiff the right to proceed with the claim Ontario has appealed this decision but no hearing date has been set.
on the grounds that the class members could not be accurately identified and because plaintiff lacked adequate funding to pursue There are currently two class actions in Quebec.
On 21 February the litigation on behalf of the proposed class.
The plaintiff appealed 2005, the Quebec Superior Court granted certification in two class that ruling and on 20 January 2011, the Court of Appeal affirmed actions against Imperial and two domestic manufacturers, which the dismissal of the case.
have a combined value of C$22 billion plus interest and costs.
The court certified two classes, which include residents of Quebec who Canada suffered from lung, throat and laryngeal cancer or emphysema, and There are 10 class actions being brought in Canada against residents who were addicted to nicotine at the time the proceedings Groupcompanies.
were filed and who have since remained addicted.
In Quebec, there In the Knight class action, a claim has been brought against Imperial is no right of appeal for a defendant upon certification.
The plaintiffs under the Trade Practices Act and the Business Practices and have served a Statement of Claim.
Trial in this matter has been set Consumer Protection Act.
The claim includes alleged deceptive for 17 October 2011 and discovery is currently under way.
practices in relation to the use of light and mild descriptors.
In June 2009, four new smoking and health class actions were filed The Supreme Court of British Columbia certified a class of all in Nova Scotia, Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta, against consumers of cigarettes bearing light or mild descriptors since Canadian manufacturers and foreign companies, including the UK 1974 manufactured in British Columbia by Imperial.
Imperial filed Companies and Imperial.
In June 2010, two further suits were filed an appeal against the certification which was heard in February in British Columbia.
Proceedings in these smoking and health class 2006.
The Appeal Court confirmed the certification of the class but actions have also been served on Imperial.
A jurisdiction motion has has limited any financial liability, if proved, to the period from 1997. been filed in British Columbia.
In Saskatchewan, a number of UK Thisis a lights class action in which the plaintiff alleges that the companies have been released from the action.
In Nova Scotia the marketing of light and mild cigarettes is deceptive because it proceedings have not progressed.
There are service issues in relation conveys a false and misleading message that those cigarettes are to the UK Companies for Alberta and Manitoba.
Although the claim arises from health concerns, it does not seek compensation for personal injury.
186 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Notes on the accounts continued 30 Contingent liabilities and financial Conclusion While it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any particular commitmentscontinued case or of the amount of any possible adverse verdict, the Group Israel believes that the defences of the Groups companies to all these In May 2008, a lights class action was brought in Israel against a various claims are meritorious on both the law and the facts, and number of parties including British American Tobaccos distributor, a vigorous defence is being made everywhere.
If an adverse which was dismissed on 16 May 2010.
The plaintiffs time to appeal judgment is entered against any of the Groups companies in that order has expired.
any case, an appeal will be made.
Such appeals could require the appellants to post appeal bonds or substitute security in amounts Venezuela which could in some cases equal or exceed the amount of the The Venezuelan Federation of Associations of Users and Consumers judgment.
In any event, with regard to US litigation, the Group has filed a class action against the Venezuelan government seeking the benefit of the RJRT Indemnification.
At least in the aggregate, regulatory controls on tobacco and recovery of medical expenses for and despite the quality of defences available to the Group, it is not future expenses of treating smoking-related illnesses in Venezuela.
impossible that the Groups results of operations or cash flows in On 19 January 2009, C. A Cigarrera Bigott Sucs.
Cigarrera Bigott particular quarterly or annual periods could be materially affected notified the court of its intention to appear as a third party.
The by this and by the final outcome of any particular litigation.
court adjourned a public hearing, initially scheduled for 28 July 2009, where Cigarrera Bigotts status as a third party would be Having regard to all these matters, the Group i does not consider determined and parties would present evidence and make it appropriate to make any provision in respect of any pending arguments.
On 16 September 2009, the Venezuelan Republic litigation and ii does not believe that the ultimate outcome of this ordered the court to continue the judicial process.
A new date litigation will significantly impair the Groups financial condition.
has yet to be scheduled by the court.
c Individual personal injury claims Aside from the US there are approximately 353 individual smoking cases pending world-wide as at 31 December 2010 against Group companies that are not detailed here.
Over three-quarters of these cases are in Brazil.
At 31 December 2010, there were only five 2009: approximately 634 individual lights cases in Italy pending against British American Tobacco Italia S. p. A. before the justice of the peace courts.
As at 31 October 2010, approximately 4,390 cases had been withdrawn, suspended or resulted in decisions given in favour of British American Tobacco Italia S. p. A.
There are 34 smoking and health cases pending before Italian civil courts, filed by or on behalf of individuals in which it is contended that diseases or deaths have been caused by cigarette smoking.
There are two labour cases for alleged occupational exposure pending in Italy.
There are also seven smoking and health cases and two labour cases on appeal related to the same decision but based on different grounds Serafini case.
In 2008, three individual smoking and health actions were brought against British American Tobacco Finland Oy, collectively seeking a total of approximately 349,329 plus interest in damages for smoking related diseases.
On 10 October 2008, the Helsinki District Court dismissed the plaintiffs claims in their entirety.
Two of the original plaintiffs have appealed the respective judgments of the District Court.
A joint fide novo trial of the appeals was heard on 31August 2009 before the Helsinki Court of Appeal.
A further appeal to the Supreme Court was withdrawn on 9 November 2010.
The parties agreed to bear their own costs.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 187 187 Financial statements 30 Contingent liabilities and financial commitmentscontinued Operating leases Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases comprise leases where payments fall due: 2010 2009 m m Property Within one year 59 71 Between one and five years 149 168 Beyond five years 122 139 330 378 Plant and equipment Within one year 26 29 Between one and five years 25 33 51 62 31 Post balance sheet events On 14 January 2011, Reynolds American Inc. RAI, announced that it had reached an agreement to sell Lane Limited to Scandinavian Tobacco Group A S STG.
Under the terms of the transaction, STG has agreed to pay US$205 million in cash for Lane.
Lane manufactures other tobacco products and contributes approximately US$0.04 per share to RAIs annual earnings which equates to earnings of US$10 million 6 million for the Group.
The Group disposed of Lane Limited to RAI in 2004.
The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2011, pending anti-trust review and approval.
