ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the financial statements 75 1 Basis of preparation a Basis of preparation Group and Company The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have also been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified to include the fair value of certain financial instruments in accordance with IFRS.
The financial statements are prepared in pound sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and presented in millions.
The Group maintains a columnar format for the presentation of its consolidated income statement.
This enables the Group to continue its practice of improving the understanding of its results by presenting profit for the year before amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
This is the profit measure used to calculate adjusted EPS and is considered to be the most appropriate as it better reflects the Groups underlying cash earnings.
Profit before amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items is reconciled to profit before tax on the face of the consolidated income statement.
Intangible assets arising on consolidation represent goodwill and other separately identifiable intangible assets on business combinations since 1 April 2004.
The amortisation of separately identifiable intangible assets and any impairment of goodwill together with the unwind of related deferred tax liabilities are included in the consolidated income statement within the column amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation.
Items which are of a non-recurring nature and material, when considering both size and nature, are disclosed separately to give a clearer presentation of the Groups results.
These are shown as exceptional items on the face of the consolidated income statement.
The Group has presented its results from the discontinued operations post-tax note 4 below profit for the year from continuing operations.
The prior year results have been re-presented to disclose separately the results of the discontinued operations.
This has had no impact on the results of the Group.
On the face of the consolidated income statement, basic and diluted EPS from continuing operations have also been disclosed.
This enables the Group to provide clarity of the EPS of the continuing core businesses.
The prior year basic and adjusted EPS has been re-presented to reflect the EPS of the continuing operations of the Group and to provide comparative information.
The Company has taken advantage of section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its own income statement.
b Basis of consolidation Group The Groups consolidated financial statements include the results and net assets of the Company, its subsidiaries and the Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
An entity is regarded as a subsidiary if the Group has control over its strategic, operating and financial policies and intends to hold the investment on a long-term basis for the purpose of securing a contribution to the Groups activities.
The results of companies acquired during the year are included in the Groups results from the effective date of acquisition.
The results of companies disposed of during the year are included up to the effective date of disposal.
The Group adopts the parent model of accounting for minority interests.
Purchases from minority interests result in goodwill being recognised, represented by the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share of the carrying value of net assets acquired.
Where the Group has a put option over shares held by a minority, the Group derecognises the minority interest and instead recognises a contingent deferred consideration liability for the estimated amount likely to be paid to the minority on exercise of those options.
The residual amount, representing the difference between any consideration paid payable and the minoritys share of net assets, is recognised as goodwill.
Movements in the estimated liability after initial recognition are recognised as either goodwill or within the consolidated income statement, depending on whether the contract was written as part of a business combination.
Where the Group has a call option over shares held by a minority, the Group continues to recognise the minority until it is certain that the option will be called.
At that point the accounting treatment is the same as for a put option.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 76 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Basis of preparation continued b Basis of consolidation Group continued Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies the Company and its subsidiaries are eliminated as part of the consolidation process.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group has an interest and, in the opinion of the directors, exercises joint control over its operating and financial policies.
An interest exists where an investment is held on a long-term basis for the purpose of securing a contribution to the Groups activities.
Joint ventures are proportionately consolidated, whereby the Groups consolidated income statement and balance sheet include the Groups share of the income and assets on a line-by-line basis.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has an interest and, in the opinion of the directors, can exercise significant influence, but not control, over its operating and financial policies.
Significant influence generally exists where the Group holds more than 20% and less than 50% of the shareholders voting rights.
Associates are accounted for under the equity method whereby the Groups consolidated income statement includes its share of their profits and losses and the Groups balance sheet includes its share of their net assets.
c Business combinations The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of acquisition is measured at fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in the business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the costs of the acquisition are less than the fair value of the net assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the consolidated income statement note 2 d. When the Group increases its investment in an entity resulting in an associate becoming a subsidiary, the intangibles related to the acquisition have been valued and the element of those not previously recognised as a share of net assets have been recorded as revaluation gains realised in the year in other comprehensive income.
2 Principal accounting policies Recent accounting developments The following new standards and amendments to standards are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 April 2009 and are considered relevant to the Group: IAS1 revised, Presentation of financial statements, prohibits the presentation of items of income and expense that is non-owner changes in equity in the statement of changes in equity, requiring non-owner changes in equity to be presented separately from owner changes in equity.
All non-owner changes in equity are required to be shown in a performance statement.
Entities can choose whether to present one performance statement the statement of comprehensive income or two statements: an income statement and a statement of comprehensive income.
The Group has elected to present the latter.
Comparative information has been re-presented so that it also conforms with the revised standard.
As the change in accounting policy impacts only presentation aspects, there is no impact on EPS.
IFRS8 Operating Segments replaces IAS14, Segment reporting.
It requires a management approach under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
Management now considers the reportable segments to consist of core voice EMEA, core voice Americas, core voice Asia Pacific, electronic broking, post trade risk and information, and new businesses.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
The CODM has been identified as the executive directors of the board of the Company.
The CODM assesses the performance of the operating segments based on revenue and operating profit.
This basis excludes the effect of amortisation and impairment of intangibles and exceptional items.
The CODM also reviews regularly the Groups total cash and total debt.
The comparatives for 2009 have been re-presented to conform to the manner consistent with internal reporting.
The Group has adopted both IFRS8 and early adopted the improvements to IFRS in respect of IFRS8 from the Improvements to IFRS issued in April 2009.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 77 2 Principal accounting policies continued Recent accounting developments continued Amendments to IFRS2, Share-based payment clarifies the vesting and service conditions of certain employee share option schemes, whereby the cancellations of share options by employees are treated in the same way as a cancellation by the Group.
This amendment has not had a material effect on the results and net assets of the Group.
Amendments to IFRS7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, which requires enhanced disclosure about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
In particular, the amendment requires disclosure of fair value measurements by a level of a fair value hierarchy.
The amendment has had no impact on the results of the Group.
The Group has chosen to take the exemption not to present the comparative assets and liabilities held at fair value by level of a fair value hierarchy.
IFRIC16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, applies to accounting periods beginning after 1 October 2008 and the Group has adopted these changes from 1 April 2009.
This interpretation provides detailed guidance on the accounting for a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation in an entities consolidated financial statements.
There has been no impact on the results or net assets of the Group as a result of this adoption.
A number of other interpretations and amendments to existing standards have been made by the IASB and IFRIC but are not considered relevant to the Groups operations.
The following new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued, but are not effective for the financial year beginning 1 April 2009 and have not been early adopted, but are considered relevant to the Group: IFRS3 revised, Business combinations and consequential amendments to IAS27, Consolidated and separate financial statements, IAS28, Investments in associates, and IAS31, Interests in joint ventures, apply prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations, with some significant changes.
For example, all payments to purchase a business are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classed as debt subsequently re-measured through the consolidated income statement.
There is a choice on an  basis to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
All acquisition related costs should be expensed.
The Group will apply IFRS3 revised to all business combinations completed after 1 April 2010.
The Group expects that this will have no effect on the current results and net assets of the Group, but that prospectively it will depend on the nature of transactions undertaken by the Group.
For the financial year commencing 1 April 2010 it is the intention of the Group to expand the items under amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation to include the impact to the consolidated income statement resulting from the adoption of IFRS3 revised Business Combinations effective 1 April 2010.
The Group also intends to move the impact of the unwind of deferred consideration and any gains or losses on disposal to the column amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation which will be redefined as acquisition and disposal costs.
These items will also be excluded from the calculation of adjusted EPS.
The Group believes this change will help to improve users of the financial statements understanding of the underlying results.
Upon adoption, the Group plans to restate the prior year comparatives for the impact of the change in presentation.
Had the Group adopted the change in the current year, the amount recognised would have increased from 40m to 42m in the consolidated income statement.
The Group has significant influence over a number of investments and the ability to move to a position of control through the exercise of call options.
The gains and losses for such options over the exercise price are included within the column amortisation and impairment of intangible arising on consolidation.
IFRIC17, Distributions of non-cash assets to owners, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
This interpretation provides guidance on the appropriate accounting treatment when an entity distributes assets other than cash as dividends to its shareholders.
This is not currently applicable to the Group and is not expected to have a material effect on the results and net assets of the Group.
IFRS9, Financial Instruments addresses clarification and measurement of financial assets, as the first phase of the replacement of IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and is effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2013, subject to EU endorsement.
The impact on the Groups financial statements of the future adoption of this standard is still under review.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 78 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued Group a Revenue Revenue comprises commission from the Groups agency businesses, brokerage from matched principal transaction agency business, execution on exchange transactions, and fees received from the provision of post trade risk and information services and the sale of financial information to third parties.
Matched principal and stock lending business Certain Group companies are involved in a non-advisory capacity as principals in the purchase and sale of securities and other financial instruments between our customers.
Revenue is generated from the difference between the purchase and sale proceeds and is recognised in full at the time of the commitment by our customers to sell and purchase the security or financial instrument.
The revenue generated by the stock lending business is not material to the Group.
Agency business name give-up transactions The Group acts in a non-advisory capacity to match buyers and sellers of financial instruments and raises invoices for the service provided.
The Group does not act as principal and only receives and transmits orders between counterparties.
Revenue is stated net of rebates and discounts, value added tax and other sales taxes and is recognised in full on the date of the trade.
Amounts receivable at the year end are reported as other trade receivables within trade and other receivables note 19.
For the shipbroking business, the Group acts in a non-advisory capacity to match buyers and sellers of services and recognises revenue, net of rebates and discounts, value added tax and other sales taxes when the Group has a contractual entitlement to commission, normally the point at which there is a completion of contractual terms between the principals of a transaction.
Execution on exchange business The Group also acts as a broker of exchange listed products, where the Group executes client orders as principal and then novates the trade to the underlying clients respective clearing broker for settlement.
Revenue is generated from either the difference between the purchase and sale proceeds or by invoice, depending on the product, market and agreements in place with the customer and is recognised on trade date.
Post trade risk and information The Group receives fees from the sale of financial information and provision of post trade risk and information services to third parties.
These are stated net of value added tax and other sales taxes and recognised in revenue on an accruals basis to match the provision of the service.
Amounts receivable at the year end are reported as other trade receivables within trade and other receivables note 19. b Government grants Revenue grants received are credited to the consolidated income statement on an accruals basis over the period the related expenditure is charged and are shown separately within other income.
c Exceptional items Exceptional items are those significant items of a non-recurring nature and material, when considering both size and nature.
These are disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Transactions which may give rise to exceptional items are principally gains and losses on disposal of investments, subsidiaries and other large gains and losses not attributable to the normal course of the Groups activities.
d Intangible assets arising on consolidation Intangible assets arising on consolidation include all goodwill and other separately identifiable intangible assets identified at the time of acquisition of an entity.
Amortisation or impairment of these assets is disclosed on the face of the consolidated income statement.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 79 2 Principal accounting policies continued d Intangible assets arising on consolidation continued i Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates and represents the cost of the acquisition in excess of the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets acquired.
Fair values are determined based on an assessment of the value of the individual assets and liabilities acquired, including reference to market prices, discounting expected future cash flows to present value or using replacement cost as appropriate.
Goodwill is initially recognised at cost and is subsequently held at cost less any provision for impairment.
Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested annually for impairment.
Goodwill acquired since 2004 is held in the currency of the underlying assets of the business and is revalued at the closing rate at each end of the reporting period.
Goodwill acquired before 2004 is held in pound sterling and is not revalued.
Goodwill acquired prior to 1998 was immediately eliminated against reserves and was not reinstated on transition to IFRS.
Goodwill held on the statement of financial position on transition to IFRS in 2004 has been recognised at its book value at the date of transition and is no longer amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures is shown within non-current assets.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates is included within their carrying value.
On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the attributable goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal, except for goodwill written off to reserves prior to 1998, which remains eliminated.
ii Separately identifiable intangible assets The Group has recognised separately identified intangible assets on acquisitions where appropriate.
These generally include customer contracts and customer relationships.
Intangible assets acquired by the Group are stated initially at fair value and adjusted subsequently for amortisation and any impairment.
Amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation are recognised in the second column of the consolidated income statement.
Where an impairment has taken place, the asset is reviewed annually for any reversal of the impairment.
Any reversals of impairments are credited to the consolidated income statement.
All intangible assets have a finite life.
Amortisation of separately identifiable intangible assets is charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Customer relationships 210 years Customer contracts Period of contract Other intangible assets Period of contract A deferred tax liability is recognised against the asset where the amortisation is non-tax deductible.
The liability unwinds over the same period as the asset is amortised.
iii Impairment Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment at least annually.
The recoverable amount of a Cash Generating Unit CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use cash flow projections which extend forward to perpetuity using a terminal value calculation and which take account of the approved budget for the coming year.
The Group applies a suitable discount factor to the future cash flows based on its pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.
Growth rates are applied conservatively and do not exceed the expected growth in the local economy after the fifth year.
Where the carrying value of the asset exceeds its value-in-use, an impairment charge is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement, and the asset is impaired to its value-in-use.
For goodwill, impairment charges previously recognised are not reversed and impaired intangible assets are reviewed annually for reversal of previously recognised impairment.
e Intangible assets arising from development expenditure Development expenditure on software for electronic trading platforms is recognised as an intangible asset in accordance with the provisions of IAS38 Intangible Assets.
Amortisation of these assets is charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic life of the asset of three to five years.
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising from development expenditure is charged within operating expenses in profit before amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
Amortisation is charged against assets from the date at which the asset becomes available for use.
f Discontinued operations When the Group has disposed of or intends to dispose of a business component that represents a major line of business or geographic area of operations it classifies such operations as discontinued.
The post-tax profit or loss of the discontinued operations is shown as a single line on the face of the consolidated income statement, separate from the other results of the Group.
The consolidated income statement for the comparative periods is restated to show the discontinued operations separate from those generated by the continuing operations.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 80 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued g Property and equipment Property and equipment is recognised initially at fair value and is presented subsequently at fair value less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment in its value.
It is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its expected useful economic life as follows: Short leasehold property improvements Period of lease Furniture, fixtures and equipment 3-5 years Motor vehicles 34 years The Group reviews its depreciation rates regularly to take account of any changes in circumstances.
These rates are determined on consideration of factors such as the expected rate of technological development and anticipated usage levels.
When a leasehold property becomes surplus to the Groups foreseeable business requirements, provision is made on a discounted basis for the expected future net cost of the property.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with the asset carrying amount and are included in the consolidated statement of income.
h Leased assets Operating lease rentals are charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
i Financial instruments Financial assets are classified as available-for-sale, loans and receivables or financial assets at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition.
Trade receivables: trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value less any provision for recoverability.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments, are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of the future cash flows.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement within operating expenses.
When a trade receivable is determined to be uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against operating expenses in the consolidated statement of income.
Available-for-sale: available-for-sale financial assets are debt and equity non-derivative financial assets and are initially recognised at fair value.
Any subsequent changes in fair value are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
When an investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, any cumulative gain or loss recognised previously in other comprehensive income is transferred to the consolidated income statement.
For equity financial assets, where the fair value cannot be measured reliably, the assets are held at cost less any provision for impairment.
These assets are generally expected to be held for the long term and are included in non-current assets.
Assets such as shares or seats in exchanges, cash-related instruments, and long-term equity investments that do not qualify as associates or joint ventures are classified as available-for-sale.
Loans and receivables: loans and receivable are non-derivative financial instruments which have a fixed or easily determinable value.
They are recognised at cost, less any provisions for impairment in their value.
These assets are included within other receivables in trade and other receivables note 19.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: fair value through profit or loss assets are designated as such where they meet the conditions of IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
They are recognised initially at fair value and any subsequent changes in fair value are recognised directly in the consolidated income statement.
These assets are usually held for short-term gain, or are financial instruments not designated as hedges.
The accounting policy for fair value hedges is included in note 2 l. These assets are included in trade and other receivables note 19.
Cash and cash equivalents: cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, overdrafts and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments which are subject to insignificant risk of change in fair value and are readily convertible into a known amount of cash with less than three months maturity.
Trade payables: accounts payable are recognised initially at fair value based on the amounts exchanged.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 81 2 Principal accounting policies continued i Financial instruments continued Impairment of financial assets: financial instruments not held at fair value are impaired where there is objective evidence that the value may be impaired.
The consolidated amount of the impairment is calculated as the difference between the carrying value and the present value of any expected future cash flows, with any impairment being recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Subsequent recovery of amounts previously impaired are credited to the consolidated income statement.
Long-term borrowings: long-term borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being their issue proceeds net of transaction costs incurred.
At subsequent reporting dates long-term borrowings are held at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, with changes in value recognised through profit or loss.
Transaction costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
j Matched principal business Certain Group companies are involved as principal in the purchase and sale of securities and other financial instruments between our customers.
Such trades are complete when all transactions are settled.
All amounts due to and payable by counterparties in respect of matched principal business are shown gross as matched principal trade receivables and matched principal trade payables notes 19 and 20, except where a netting agreement, which is legally enforceable at all times, exists and the asset and liability are either settled net or simultaneously.
If, during the course of trading e. g. as a result of an error, any unmatched trades remain outstanding, the asset or liability is held within matched principal trade receivables or payables as appropriate and fair valued through the consolidated income statement until the trade is completed.
k Matched stock lending business Certain Group companies are involved in collateralised stock lending transactions as an intermediary between counterparties.
Such trades are complete only when both the collateral and stock for each side of the transaction is returned.
The gross amounts of collateral due and receivable are disclosed in the balance sheet as deposits paid for securities borrowed and deposits received for securities loaned notes 19 and 20. l Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group uses various financial instruments as hedges to reduce exposure to FX and interest rate movements.
These can include forward FX contracts, currency options and cross currency swaps.
All derivative financial instruments are initially recognised on the balance sheet at their fair value, adjusted for transaction costs.
Where derivative financial instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting, changes in the fair value are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement, along with transaction costs.
Where they do qualify, gains and losses are recognised according to the nature of the hedge relationship and the item being hedged.
Hedges are either classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
The fair values of derivative financial instruments are determined by reference to quoted prices in an active market.
Where no such active market exists, the fair value is determined using appropriate valuation techniques from observable data, including discounted cash flow analysis and the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The method of recognising the movements in the fair value of a derivative depends on whether an instrument has been designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the exposure being hedged.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the terms of the hedge must be documented clearly at inception and there must be an expectation that the derivative will be highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Hedge effectiveness is tested throughout the life of the hedge and, if at any point it is concluded that the relationship can no longer be expected to remain highly effective in achieving its objective, the hedge relationship is terminated.
Fair value hedges: derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when they hedge an exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset or liability that is attributable to a particular risk that could affect the consolidated income statement.
The hedging instrument is recorded at fair value on the balance sheet, with changes in fair value being taken through the consolidated income statement.
Where the hedged item is measured at cost, and for periods in which the hedge is shown to be effective, the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk adjusts the carrying amount of the hedged item and is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Cash flow hedges: derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in cash flows attributable to a particular asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
Gains or losses on designated cash flow hedges are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, to the extent that they are determined to be effective.
Any remaining ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
On recognition of the hedged asset or liability, any gains or losses relating to the hedging instrument that had previously been recognised directly in other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement of the fair value of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss in equity remains there and is recognised in the consolidated income statement when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in other comprehensive income is transferred immediately to the consolidated income statement.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 82 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued l Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting continued Net investment hedges: changes in the value of foreign denominated investments due to currency movements are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
The accounting treatment for a net investment hedging instrument, whether it is a derivative financial instrument or a recognised asset or liability on the balance sheet, is consistent with the aforementioned treatment for a cash flow hedge.
Gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are included in the consolidated income statement on the ultimate disposal of the foreign denominated investment.
m Client money The Group holds money on behalf of clients in accordance with the client money rules of the FSA, where applicable.
Since the Group is not beneficially entitled to these amounts, they are excluded from the balance sheet along with the corresponding liabilities to clients.
The amounts held on behalf of clients at the end of the reporting period are disclosed in note 34. n Pension costs The Group operates defined contribution schemes.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement as they fall due.
Any difference between the payments and the charge is recognised as a short-term asset or liability.
The Group also operates defined benefit pension schemes in the US, Germany and Indonesia that are closed to new entrants.
The cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each end of the reporting period.
The expected return on the schemes assets and the interest arising on the pension schemes liabilities is recognised in the consolidated income statement within finance income and finance costs.
The pension scheme deficit recognised in the balance sheet represents the difference between the fair value of the assets of the plan and the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur in other comprehensive income, net of the deferred tax impact.
The expected return on the schemes assets reflects the estimate made by management of the long-term yields that will arise from the specific assets held within the pension scheme.
o Share-based payments The Group awards share options and other share-based payments as part of employee incentive schemes.
The Group has applied IFRS2 Share-based payment for all such awards granted since 7 November 2002.
The fair value of services acquired is measured by the fair value of the shares or share options awarded at the time of granting and are charged to staff costs over the period the service is received on a straight-line basis.
A corresponding amount has been recognised in equity.
The fair value of share options awarded is calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and takes into account various parameters, including the exercise price, current share price, risk free rate of return and the volatility of ICAPs share price.
The expected lives used in the fair value calculations are adjusted for the estimated effect of non-transferability and exercise restrictions.
A cancellation of a share award by the Group or an employee is treated consistently, resulting in an acceleration of the remaining charge within the consolidated income statement in the year of cancellation.
p Tax Tax on the profit for the year comprises both current and deferred tax as well as adjustments in respect of prior years.
Tax is charged or credited to the consolidated income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited to other comprehensive income or directly to equity, in which case the tax is also included in other comprehensive income or directly within equity, respectively.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted, or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, in respect of temporary differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities for reporting purposes and the amounts charged or credited for tax purposes.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rate of tax expected to apply when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
No provision is made in respect of any further tax liability that would arise on the distribution of retained earnings of overseas joint ventures and associates.
Deferred tax liabilities are offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group where there is both the legal right and the intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 83 2 Principal accounting policies continued q Foreign currencies In individual entities, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency of that entity at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each end of the reporting period, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period.
Exchange differences are recognised in the consolidated income statement, except for exchange differences arising on nonmonetary assets and liabilities where these form part of the net investment of an overseas business or are designated as hedges of a net investment or cash flow and, therefore, the changes in value are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
On consolidation, the results of businesses with non-pound sterling functional currencies are translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the average exchange rates for the period where these approximate to the rate at the date of the transactions.
Assets and liabilities of overseas businesses are translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the reporting period.
Exchange differences arising are recognised within other comprehensive income.
Cumulative translation differences arising after the transition to IFRS are taken to the consolidated income statement on disposal of the net investment.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a non-sterling entity are treated as assets and liabilities of that entity and translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the closing rate.
Where applicable, the Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising before the date of transition to IFRS as denominated in the presentational currency of the Group.
In the statement of cash flows, cash flows denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the average exchange rate for the year or at the rate prevailing at the time of the transaction where more appropriate.
r Treasury Shares and share ownership trusts Treasury Shares are recognised in equity and are measured at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from the sale and original cost being taken to retained earnings.
Company shares held in connection with the Groups employee share schemes are held in trust and are deducted from consolidated shareholders equity.
Purchases, sales and transfers of the Companys shares are disclosed as changes in consolidated shareholders equity.
The assets and liabilities of the trusts are consolidated in full into the Groups consolidated financial statements.
s Provisions A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, either legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable there will be a transfer of economic benefits to settle the obligation.
Property provisions are recognised where office space is surplus to requirements at the cost of fulfilling the lease obligations less any expected rental income from sub-letting the property.
The provision is discounted when such discount is material.
t Earnings per ordinary share The Group presents basic and diluted EPS data for its ordinary shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for own shares held.
The Group also calculates adjusted EPS from the adjusted profit which is defined as profit from operations before the effect of amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
The Group believes that this is the most appropriate measurement since it better reflects the businesss underlying cash earnings.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit and loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held as Treasury Shares, for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which comprise those owned by employee share trusts and share options granted to employees outstanding under the Companys employee share schemes.
u Accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be based on amounts which differ from those estimates.
Estimates, judgements and assumptions are continuously evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 84 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued u Accounting estimates and judgements continued The accounting policies deemed critical to the Groups results and financial position, based upon materiality and significant judgements and estimates, are discussed below: i Goodwill and intangible assets The Group reviews goodwill for impairment at least annually at the end of the reporting period or when events or changes in economic circumstances indicate that impairment may have taken place, in line with the Groups accounting policy.
Intangible assets remaining useful lives are reviewed annually and are also reviewed for impairment when events or changes in economic circumstances indicate that impairment may have taken place.
This calculation requires the exercise of significant judgement by management: if the estimates made prove to be incorrect or performance does not meet expectations which affect the amount and timing of future cash flows, goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired in future periods.
The assumptions and results of the impairment reviews are disclosed in note 15.
When the Group makes an acquisition the Group has 12 months from the date of acquisition to finalise the opening balance sheet, including the value of goodwill and intangible assets arising on consolidation.
See note 2 d iii for accounting policy on impairment related to intangible assets arising on consolidation.
ii Share-based payments The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date at which they are granted.
Determining the value of a grant of equity instruments requires selecting an appropriate valuation model and estimating the required inputs to that model, including the expected life of the option, volatility and dividend yield and making assumptions about them.
The assumptions and model used are disclosed in note 27. iii Tax Significant judgement is required in determining the Groups income tax liabilities.
In arriving at the current and deferred tax liability the Group has taken account of tax issues that are subject to ongoing discussions with the relevant tax authorities.
Calculations of these liabilities have been based on managements assessment of legal and professional advice, case law and other relevant guidance.
Where the expected tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were recorded initially, such differences will impact the current and deferred tax amounts in the period in which such determination is made.
Company In addition to the above accounting policies, the following relate specifically to the Company.
Investment in subsidiaries An entity is regarded as a subsidiary if the Company has control over its strategic, operating and financial policies and intends to hold the investment on a long-term basis for the purpose of securing a contribution to the Groups activities.
The Company recognises investments in subsidiaries initially at fair value, and subsequent changes in value as a result of impairment are recognised in the income statement.
Dividends The Company recognises the final dividend payable only when it has been approved by the shareholders of the Company in a general meeting.
The interim dividend is recognised when the amount due has been paid.
Dividends receivable are recognised when they are received.
3 Segmental information The Group has re-presented the segmental results as a result of adopting IFRS8 Operating Segments from 1 April 2009.
There is no effect on the overall results of the Group.
The Group has determined its operating segments based on the management information reviewed on a regular basis by the Companys board.
The Group considers the executive members of the Companys board to be the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
The CODM considers the business to consist of core and new business elements.
The core business consists of regional voice brokerage businesses in EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacific, a global electronic brokerage business active in fixed income and FX markets and a global post trade risk and information business.
Each of these five core business areas are managed and reviewed by the CODM on a stand-alone basis and, as such, are considered segments.
In addition the CODM separately manages and reviews a portfolio of new business initiatives which were either acquired or started during the course of the past two financial years.
Each of the operating segments of the Group is managed on a day-to-day basis by one or more members of the GEMG.
The management of new businesses is dependent on which core area the business will eventually become a part of.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 85 3 Segmental information continued For the current financial year the new businesses segment includes the Groups investments in ICAP Shipping, Arkhe and Link along with a number of smaller acquisitions and new initiatives.
The CODM anticipates that this segment will be dynamic with new businesses, which represent a diversification of ICAPs existing business, joining the segment on acquisition or at inception.
These businesses will normally be reported within this segment for two financial years while the business is integrated within ICAP or, in the case of start-up businesses, move towards operational maturity.
The segment will be reviewed at the start of each year and the comparatives restated to reflect any reclassifications between the core and new business segments.
For the period commencing 1 April 2010, it is anticipated that Link and ICAP Shipping, both of which have been owned for two years, will be reported in the core voice segment, with comparatives restated to show impact and TriOptima, a business in which the Group has had a 38.22% shareholding, will be reported within post trade risk and information.
The now discontinued cash equities business had previously been disclosed within the new business segment at the interim reporting period.
The Group continues to disclose an operating segment for the voice business in Asia Pacific even though this segment does not meet the quantitative thresholds to be mandatory under IFRS8, Operating Segments.
This is to reflect the importance of the Asia Pacific region to the Group and the way the Group is managed.
Year ended 31 March 2010 Core voice broking Post trade risk Electronic and Asia New broking information EMEA Americas Pacific businesses Total m m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 506 434 96 252 142 175 1,605 Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items 115 80 1 100 69 11 354 Reconciliation to the consolidated income statement: Amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation 61 Exceptional items 26 Operating profit 267 Finance income 7 Finance costs 35 Share of profit of associates after tax 8 Profit before tax for continuing operations 247 Tax 83 Profit for the year for continuing operations 164 Loss after tax from discontinued operations 48 Profit for the year 116 Details of total gross debt and total net cash reviewed by the CODM can be found in notes 22 and 33 b respectively.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 86 Notes to the financial statements continued 3 Segmental information continued Year ended 31 March 2009 Core voice broking Post trade risk Asia Electronic and New EMEA Americas Pacific broking information businesses Total m m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 520 423 96 252 124 170 1,585 Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items 135 76 2 88 61 7 365 Reconciliation to the consolidated income statement: Amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation 63 Exceptional items Operating profit 302 Finance income 19 Finance costs 43 Share of profit of associates after tax 7 Profit before tax for continuing operations 285 Tax 95 Profit for the year for continuing operations 190 Loss after tax from discontinued operations 4 Profit for the year 186 Revenue earned by product type from continuing operations is disclosed below.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March Product type 2010 2009 Interest rates 630 678 FX 292 245 Equities 163 184 Emerging markets 141 127 Credit 204 192 Commodities 175 159 Total revenue 1,605 1,585 The Group did not earn more than 10% of its total revenue from any individual customer.
The Group earned revenue of 581m 2009 615m from entities in the UK.
The remainder of 1,024m 2009 970m came from entities outside the UK.
The amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising from development expenditure recognised by the Group on a segmental basis is as follows: core voice broking EMEA 6m 2009 5m, core voice broking Americas 13m 2009 7m, core voice broking Asia Pacific nil 2009 nil, electronic broking 1m 2009 4m, post trade risk and information 2m 2009 2m and new businesses 1m 2009 nil.
The depreciation of property and equipment recognised by the Group on a segmental basis is as follows: core voice broking EMEA 7m 2009 7m, core voice broking Americas 8m 2009 9m, core voice broking Asia Pacific 2m 2009 2m, electronic broking 3m 2009 4m, post trade risk and information 1m 2009 nil and new businesses 1m 2009 1m.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 87 4 Discontinued operations The income statement and cash flows related to the European and Asia Pacific cash equities business are presented as discontinued operations following the decision of the Companys board on 22 March 2010 to close the European and Asia Pacific integrated full service agency cash equities businesses.
These businesses were closed as at the balance sheet date.
a Results of discontinued operations An analysis of the results of discontinued operations presented within the consolidated income statement is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Revenue 24 16 Operating expenses 49 20 Tax 7 Loss after tax of discontinued operations before exceptional items 18 4 Exceptional items 41 Tax 11 Loss after tax of discontinued operations 48 4 Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 b Cash flows of discontinued operations m m Operating cash flows 5 11 Investing cash flows 12 Financing cash flows 28 Total cash flows 5 5 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 88 Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Other income Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Income from government grants 14 15 Other income 5 8 Total other income 19 23 Income from government grants includes amounts relating to a BEIP grant receivable in the US from the state of New Jersey.
This grant is receivable until 2014 by the Group provided it maintains its operations in the state of New Jersey until 2019 and is based on the amount of employee tax paid over to the state authorities.
6 Exceptional items Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Exceptional items continuing businesses SEC settlement and other related fees 21 Reorganisation of cash equities business 5 Total exceptional items before tax continuing business 26 Tax 4 Total exceptional items after tax continuing businesses 22 Exceptional items discontinued business Reorganisation of cash equities business 41 Tax 11 Total exceptional items after tax discontinued business 30 On 18 December 2009 ICAP Securities USA LLC, a US subsidiary of the Company, announced that it had agreed to a settlement with the SEC, with regard to a multi-year industry wide investigation into the markets in certain fixed income securities, without admitting or denying allegations of any wrongdoing.
An exceptional item of 21m has been recognised in 2009 10 to cover the SEC settlement together with related costs.
On 15 February 2010 the Group announced that it was undertaking a strategic review of its cash equities business and, on 22 March 2010, announced that it was going to discontinue its European and Asia Pacific integrated full service agency cash equities business.
An exceptional charge of 46m has been recognised in respect of the estimated cost of the reorganisation, which covers personnel costs, write off of assets and provisions against onerous contracts.
Exceptional items related to the cash equities strategic review have been split between continuing and discontinued business.
The European and Asia Pacific full service agency cash equities businesses were closed at the balance sheet date.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 89 7 Finance income Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Interest receivable and similar income Bank deposits 2 10 Other interest receivable 1 5 3 15 Other finance income Fair value gains on derivative financial instruments note 22 11 2 Fair value of hedged item note 22 9 Expected return on retirement plan assets 1 Dividends received on equity investments 2 1 4 4 Total finance income 7 19 As described in note 24, the Group converted 200m of its 300m fixed euro-denominated notes from euros to pound sterling, and the coupon from fixed to floating.
The fixed to floating swaps have been treated as a fair value hedge, with the mark-to-market of 11m included within fair value gains on derivative financial instruments in other finance income.
The corresponding fair value adjustment of 9m to the 200m of the euro-denominated notes, which is comprised of 2m relating to interest rates and 7m to FX, is included within fair value of hedged item in other finance income.
8 Finance costs Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Interest payable and similar charges Bank loans and overdrafts 28 33 Unwinding of discount on contingent deferred consideration note 14 c 2 6 30 39 Other finance costs Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments 3 Impairment of loans to associates note 19 5 Interest on retirement plan liabilities 1 5 4 Total finance costs 35 43 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 90 Notes to the financial statements continued 9 Operating expenses Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 Profit before tax from continuing operations is stated after charging: m m Employee costs note 10 950 931 Information technology costs 141 129 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising on consolidation subsidiaries 61 63 Professional and legal fees 28 25 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising from development expenditure 23 18 Depreciation of property and equipment owned assets 22 23 Clearing and settlement fees 18 20 Operating lease rentals minimum lease payments 8 18 Exchange adjustments 7 12 Other 99 67 Total 1,357 1,306 Auditors remuneration Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual financial statements 0.5 0.5 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for other services: for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 2.6 2.0 other services pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.1 tax services 0.5 0.8 corporate finance services 0.2 0.4 other 0.1 0.4 4.2 4.2 Other includes exceptional costs note 6 of 26m 2009 nil.
10 Employee information a Analysis of employee costs Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Continuing operations Salaries including bonuses 879 859 Social security costs 54 57 Share-based payments 10 8 Defined contribution pension costs 7 7 950 931 The 2009 employee costs have been re-presented to exclude employees of the discontinued cash equities business.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Discontinued operations Salaries including bonuses 27 12 Social security costs 3 1 Share-based payments Defined contribution pension costs 30 13 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 91 10 Employee information continued b Number of employees analysed by business segment Continuing operations Average Year end Year ended Year ended As at As at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 2010 2009 Core voice broking: EMEA 1,309 1,288 1,238 1,255 Americas 1,201 1,223 1,218 1,253 Asia Pacific 619 639 629 632 Electronic broking 456 470 466 453 Post trade risk and information 232 182 310 205 New businesses 580 394 627 465 4,397 4,196 4,488 4,263 The 2009 employee numbers have been re-presented to exclude employees of the discontinued cash equities business.
Discontinued operations Average Year end Year ended Year ended As at As at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 2010 2009 Discontinued cash equities business 105 36 116 71 c Key management remuneration Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Aggregate emoluments 28 29 Share-based payments 6 5 Defined contribution pension costs 34 34 Key management consists of the members of the GEMG and the executive directors of the board.
The executive directors remuneration is disclosed separately in the remuneration report.
The aggregate remuneration for key management includes amounts paid as variable bonuses.
For the year ended 31 March 2010 this amounted to 61% 2009 79% of the aggregate remuneration.
Key management remuneration is wholly attributable to continuing operations.
Key management received 33m in the year 2009 9m in aggregate gains on the exercise of stock options.
Retirement benefits are accruing to five 2009 five members of the GEMG under defined contribution schemes.
The Company has no employees.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 92 Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Tax Tax charged to the consolidated income statement in the year Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Current tax UK Corporation Tax at 28% 2009 28% current year 30 43 double tax relief 1 1 adjustment to prior years 1 Overseas tax current year 68 52 adjustment to prior years 4 10 92 84 Deferred tax note 21 9 11 Total tax charged to consolidated income statement continuing operations 83 95 Tax credited to the consolidated income statement for discontinued operations can be analysed as follows: Tax credit on discontinued operations, excluding exceptional items 7 Tax credit on exceptional items discontinued operations 11 Total tax credit to the consolidated income statement discontinued operations 18 Total tax charged to the consolidated income statement 65 95 Tax charged to the consolidated income statement for continuing operations can be analysed as follows: Total tax charged to the consolidated income statement continuing operations 83 95 Tax credit on amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising on consolidation 20 22 Tax credit on exceptional items continuing operations 4 Tax on profit before amortisation, impairment of intangible assets arising on consolidation and exceptional items 107 117 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 93 11 Tax continued Tax charged credited to other comprehensive income in the year Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Current tax credit on share-based payments 9 5 Current tax charge credit on exchange adjustments 2 20 Current tax charge credit on hedging instruments 12 18 Net current tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income 5 43 Deferred tax credit on revaluation of available-for-sale investments 1 Deferred tax charge on share-based payments 1 4 Net deferred tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income 1 3 The Groups tax charge exceeds the UK statutory rate and can be reconciled as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Profit before tax from continuing operations 247 285 Tax on profit at the standard rate of Corporation Tax in the UK of 28% 2009 28% 69 80 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 12 11 Adjustments to deferred tax in respect of prior years 1 1 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 10 15 Adjustments to current tax in respect of prior years 5 10 Adjustments in respect of associates 2 2 Tax charge from continuing operations 83 95 12 Dividends Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: m m Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2009 of 12.35p per ordinary share 2008 11.95p 79 76 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010 of 5.11p per ordinary share 2009 4.7p 33 30 Total dividend recognised in year 112 106 The directors have proposed a final dividend of 12.44p per share for the year ended 31 March 2010.
This has not been recognised as a liability of the Group at the year end as it has not yet been approved by shareholders.
Based on the number of shares in issue at the year end, the total amount payable would be 81m.
The right to receive dividends has been waived in respect of the shares held in employee share trusts and no dividend is payable on Treasury Shares.
The final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2009 was satisfied with a cash payment of 59m and a scrip dividend of 4,567,807 ICAP plc ordinary shares of 10p each issued at 4.333 value 20m.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 94 Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Earnings per ordinary share The Group is required to disclose basic and diluted EPS on the face of the consolidated income statement.
The Group continues to calculate adjusted EPS as it believes that it is the most appropriate measurement since it better reflects the businesss underlying cash earnings and, for the current financial year, has further analysed this to show the adjusted EPS for continuing operations.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the Company of 116m 2009 175m by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year of 643m shares 2009 634m.
Adjusted basic EPS from continuing operations is calculated by dividing the profit for the year from continuing operations before the effect of amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items attributable to the equity holders of the Company of 226m 2009 220m by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year of 643m shares 2009 634m.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue excludes the weighted average number of shares held as Treasury Shares of 2m 2009 1m and those owned by employee share trusts relating to employee share schemes on which dividends have been waived, being 9m shares 2009 14m.
Unadjusted and adjusted diluted EPS takes into account the dilutive effect of share options outstanding under the Companys employee share schemes.
The Group has also disclosed the impact of discontinued operations on the basic, diluted and adjusted EPS.
a EPS relating to the Groups total operations Year ended 31 March 2010 Year ended 31 March 2009 Earnings Earnings Earnings Shares per share Earnings Shares per share Basic and diluted m millions pence m millions pence Basic 116 643 18.0 175 634 27.6 Dilutive effect of share options 11 0.3 16 0.7 Diluted basic 116 654 17.7 175 650 26.9 Year ended 31 March 2010 Year ended 31 March 2009 Earnings Earnings Earnings Shares per share Earnings Shares per share Adjusted basic and diluted m millions pence m millions pence Basic 116 643 18.0 175 634 27.6 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation net of tax and minority interest 40 6.2 41 6.5 Exceptional items net of tax note 6 52 8.1 Adjusted basic 208 643 32.3 216 634 34.1 Dilutive effect of share options 11 0.5 16 0.9 Adjusted diluted 208 654 31.8 216 650 33.2 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 95 13 Earnings per ordinary share continued b EPS relating to the Groups continuing operations Year ended 31 March 2010 Year ended 31 March 2009 Earnings Earnings Earnings Shares per share Earnings Shares per share Basic and diluted m millions pence m millions pence Basic 164 643 25.5 179 634 28.2 Dilutive effect of share options 11 0.4 16 0.7 Diluted basic 164 654 25.1 179 650 27.5 Year ended 31 March 2010 Year ended 31 March 2009 Earnings Earnings Earnings Shares per share Earnings Shares per share Adjusted basic and diluted m millions pence m millions pence Basic 164 643 25.5 179 634 28.2 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation net of tax and minority interest 40 6.2 41 6.5 Exceptional items net of tax note 6 22 3.4 Adjusted basic 226 643 35.1 220 634 34.7 Dilutive effect of share options 11 0.5 16 0.9 Adjusted diluted 226 654 34.6 220 650 33.8 c EPS relating to the Groups discontinued operations Year ended 31 March 2010 Year ended 31 March 2009 Earnings Earnings Earnings Shares per share Earnings Shares per share Basic and diluted m millions pence m millions pence Basic 48 643 7.5 4 634 0.6 Dilutive effect of share options 11 0.1 16 Diluted basic 48 654 7.4 4 650 0.6 Year ended 31 March 2010 Year ended 31 March 2009 Earnings Earnings Earnings Shares per share per share Earnings Shares Adjusted basic and diluted m millions pence m millions pence Basic 48 643 7.5 4 634 0.6 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation net of tax and minority interest Exceptional items net of tax note 6 30 4.7 Adjusted basic 18 643 2.8 4 634 0.6 Dilutive effect of share options 11 16 Adjusted diluted 18 654 2.8 4 650 0.6 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 96 Notes to the financial statements continued 14 Acquisitions Subsidiaries a Subsidiaries current year TriOptima AB TriOptima On 24 March 2010, the Group acquired the remaining 61.78% of the share capital of TriOptima, a supplier of post trade processing services, for an initial cash consideration of Swedish krona SEK 1,288m 119m, inclusive of a deferred consideration payment of 7m.
At the close of the acquisition SEK1,216m 112m was paid with SEK72m 7m paid on 10 May 2010 following approval of the 2009 financial statements.
Contingent deferred consideration is payable, in two tranches, following the approval of the TriOptima 2010 and 2012 financial statements and is conditional on the business achieving a minimum pre-tax profit margin and revenue target.
The Group has set stretching revenue and profit targets and therefore does not currently expect to pay any deferred consideration.
Total deferred consideration is capped at 293m and can be settled at ICAPs discretion in cash, ICAP plc ordinary shares or a combination thereof.
The fair value adjustments include the recognition of intangible assets arising on consolidation of 81m 73m represented by customer relationships of 58m 52m, trademarks of 9m 8m and software of 14m 13m which will be amortised over five years, and a deferred tax liability of 21m 19m.
The Groups share of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in previous transactions has been revalued with the credit of 50m 45m recognised in other comprehensive income.
The Group has considered the financial profile of the business and, in accordance with IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, considers the functional currency to be the euro and, as such, has recorded the goodwill and intangibles in euros.
Goodwill of 57m 50m has been recognised in respect of assets which are not separately identifiable, principally the assembled work force and potential future growth of the business.
In the period from acquisition to 31 March 2010, TriOptima contributed 1m to revenue and was break-even before tax, amortisation of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
If the acquisition had occurred on the first day of the financial year, the contribution would have been 60m of revenue and 27m profit before tax.
During the period 1 April 2009 to 24 March 2010 the Group recognised profit on a post-tax basis of 7m as associate income based on its 38.22% shareholding.
Arkhe Distribuidora fide Ttulose e Valores Mobilirios S. A. Arkhe On 13 July 2009, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of Arkhe, a leading independent broker in Brazil, for an initial consideration of real R $20m 6m.
Contingent deferred consideration, based on the average operating profit of Arkhe and certain complementary ICAP businesses for the three years from 1 July 2009 to 30 June 2012, will be paid in August 2012.
Total consideration is capped at US$55m 33m equivalent to R$107m at year end exchange rates.
The fair value adjustments include the recognition of intangible assets arising on consolidation of R$22m 7m represented by customer relationships of R$20m 6m and the brand value of R$2m 1m which are being amortised over seven years, and other provisions R$122m 38m.
Other provisions are for contingent liabilities that existed at acquisition, but were not previously recognised by Arkhe.
The initial consideration and any future contingent deferred consideration will be held in escrow together with the proceeds earned by the vendors by selling certain assets, for a period of up to six years and may be used to settle any of the contingent liabilities.
The Group has recognised an asset of R$20m 6m which represents the cash currently held in escrow.
Goodwill of R$96m 29m has been recognised in respect of assets which are not separately identifiable, principally the assembled workforce and potential future growth of the business.
In the period from the acquisition to 31 March 2010, the Arkhe business has been integrated with certain complementary Group businesses and the results of the acquired business are no longer distinguishable from the combined business.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 97 14 Acquisitions continued a Subsidiaries current year continued Others On 15 June 2009, the Group acquired the assets and business of the transactions division of Ocean Tomo LLC Ocean Tomo, the leading Intellectual Capital Merchant Banc company, a business based in the US which offers patent brokerage services.
Ocean Tomo services include live multi-lot IP auctions and private sales where revenue may be unpredictable in terms of timings and amounts.
Consideration of $10m 6m has been recognised consisting of $5m 3m in cash and 692,226 ICAP shares issued at 4.4395 value $5m 3m.
Costs of $0.3m 0.2m have also been recognised as consideration.
The fair value adjustments include the recognition of separately identifiable intangible assets arising on consolidation of $3m 2m for the Ocean Tomo brand to which the Group has rights for ten years.
The asset will be amortised over the ten years.
Goodwill of $7m 5m has been recognised in respect of assets which are not separately identifiable, principally the assembled workforce and future growth potential of the business.
In the period from the acquisition to 31 March 2010, Ocean Tomo has contributed 3m of revenue and was break-even before tax, before amortisation of intangibles arising on consolidation.
If the acquisition had occurred on the first day of the financial year the contribution would have been similar.
On 6 May 2009, ICAP acquired an initial 75% shareholding in an electronic interdealer broking business for 1m.
The minority shareholders, under the terms of the shareholder agreement, have the right to put and ICAP has the ability to call the remaining shares, using a pre-agreed pricing formulae, from 1 July 2011.
At the opening balance sheet date the exit price was estimated to be 7m with a net present value of 6m and is capped at 116m.
Goodwill of 5m has been recognised in respect of assets which are not separately identifiable, principally the potential future growth of the business.
In the period from the acquisition to 31 March 2010, the business has contributed 1.1m of revenues and 0.8m profit before tax, before amortisation of intangibles arising on consolidation.
If the acquisition had occurred on the first day of the financial year, the contributions would have been similar.
TriOptima Arkhe Others Total Provisional Provisional Book value fair value Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Book value fair value m m m m m m m m Net assets acquired Intangible assets arising on consolidation 73 7 2 82 Tangible assets 1 1 1 1 Cash and cash equivalents 11 11 2 2 13 13 Trade and other receivables 11 11 22 28 33 39 Trade and other payables 7 7 18 54 25 61 Deferred tax liability 19 19 16 70 6 17 2 22 55 Goodwill 50 29 10 89 Consideration 120 12 12 144 Satisfied by: cash 112 6 3 121 acquisition costs capitalised 1 1 2 shares issued 3 3 deferred consideration 7 7 contingent deferred consideration 5 6 11 120 12 12 144 b Subsidiaries prior year Reset In March 2009, the remaining minority shareholder exercised their option to require ICAP to acquire the remaining 15% of Reset.
The total cash consideration of $41m 29m was paid in April 2009 with $2m 1m deferred.
Link In April 2009, ICAP paid the former owner of Link 14m as the first part of the contingent deferred consideration due.
As at 31 March 2010, there was 13m of contingent deferred consideration outstanding.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 98 Notes to the financial statements continued 14 Acquisitions continued c Contingent deferred consideration A number of acquisitions made by the Group are satisfied in part by contingent deferred consideration.
The Group has reestimated the amounts due as contingent deferred consideration where necessary, with any corresponding adjustments being made to goodwill where the transaction is regarded as a business combination.
Included within contingent deferred consideration are amounts which are exercisable at certain dates in the future on put options over shares held by minorities where the Group considers it highly likely that these options will be exercised.
Year ended 31 March 2010 ICAP ICAP Link Shipping Equities Arkhe Other Total m m m m m m Contingent deferred consideration outstanding as at 1 April 2009 25 8 13 2 48 5 Acquisitions in the year note 14 a 6 11 Cash consideration paid in the year 14 1 1 16 Unwinding of discount note 8 1 1 2 Re-estimation of provisions which arose on acquisition 9 9 Adjustments to goodwill during the year note 15 a 8 7 12 5 3 35 Contingent deferred consideration outstanding as at 31 March 2010 13 1 5 19 The Group has 5m worth of contingent deferred consideration related to other acquisitions.
Year ended 31 March 2009 ICAP ICAP Reset Link Shipping Equities Other Total m m m m m m Contingent deferred consideration outstanding as at 1 April 2008 41 9 50 Acquisitions in the year 23 124 Amount recognised for options over minority interests 3 12 1 16 Cash consideration paid in the year 66 3 69 Unwinding of discount note 8 2211 6 Adjustments to goodwill during the year note 15 a 7 2 5 Exchange adjustments 16 16 Contingent deferred consideration outstanding as at 31 March 2009 25 8 13 2 48 Other contingent deferred consideration of 2m related to other acquisitions.
The contingent deferred consideration consists of cash only and is included within trade and other payables note 20.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 99 15 Intangible fixed assets a Intangible assets arising on consolidation Intangible assets arising on consolidation include goodwill and other separately identifiable intangible assets such as customer relationships, brands and customer contracts that arose on business combinations since 1 April 2004.
The amortisation and any impairment is included in the consolidated income statement within the column amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation.
Goodwill Other Total m m m Cost As at 1 April 2009 1,035 525 1,560 Additions note 14 89 82 171 Transfer of goodwill from associates note 17 2 2 Revaluation of intangibles note 17 12 45 57 Adjustments relating to contingent deferred consideration note 14 c 35 35 Exchange adjustments 30 19 49 As at 31 March 2010 1,073 633 1,706 Amortisation and impairment As at 1 April 2009 31 125 156 Amortisation charge for the year 51 51 Impairment in the year 5 5 10 As at 31 March 2010 36 181 217 Net book value As at 31 March 2010 1,037 452 1,489 Cost As at 1 April 2008 725 327 1,052 Additions 140 110 250 Adjustments relating to deferred consideration note 14 c 5 5 Exchange adjustments 165 88 253 As at 31 March 2009 1,035 525 1,560 Amortisation and impairment As at 1 April 2008 24 69 93 Amortisation charge for the year 56 56 Impairment in the year 7 7 As at 31 March 2009 31 125 156 Net book value As at 31 March 2009 1,004 400 1,404 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 100 Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Intangible fixed assets continued a Intangible assets arising on consolidation continued Impairment testing of intangible assets arising on consolidation Goodwill and other intangible assets arising on consolidation are allocated to a cash generating units CGUs at acquisition.
A CGU is the smallest segment on which it is practicable to report, each of which represents one of the Groups businesses.
The carrying amounts are presented below: Analysis of intangible assets As at 31 March 2010 Net Year of Goodwill Other book value Business segment acquisition m m m Excos acquisition of Intercapital EMEA 1998 23 23 ICAP Energy Americas 2002 18 18 First Brokers Americas 2002 12 12 Acquired Asian Businesses Asia Pacific 2002 12 12 ICAP Electronic Broking Electronic broking 2003 146 146 United Fuels Americas 2005 14 14 EBS Electronic broking2006 334 170 504 Reset Post trade risk 2006 139 1 140 and information Traiana Post trade risk 2007 100 63 163 and information ICAP Shipping New businesses 2007 08 30 4 34 Link New businesses2009 83 88 171 Arkhe New businesses2010 30 7 37 Ocean Tomo New businesses 2010 5 1 6 TriOptima Post trade risk and information 2010 64 116 180 Others VariousVarious 27 2 29 1,037 452 1,489 Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment at least annually.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use cash flow projections which extend forward to a terminal value and which take account of the approved budget for the year ending 31 March 2011 together with assumptions surrounding the expected life of the asset, managements view of the trading cycles and growth profile facing each CGU and any adjustments required to the discount factor to take account of country or business risk.
The value-in-use calculations are sensitive to changes in these assumptions and, in particular, long-term growth rates.
With the exception of Traiana, ICAP Shipping and First Brokers, which each exhibited different trading characteristics to those seen in ICAPs wider brokerage business, the base model assumes that the budgeted cash flows for 2011 will grow at 2% per annum to a terminal value in year ten and when discounted this shows significant headroom.
The base case was then stress tested using a zero growth assumption and continued to show no impairment.
The board view these assumptions as conservative and do not believe that any reasonable change in the assumptions would cause the carrying value of these CGUs to exceed the recoverable amount.
It is anticipated that intangible assets arising on the acquisition of voice broking businesses have a finite life.
The Group reviews the performance of the businesses and reassesses the likely period over which the acquired intangible asset is likely to continue to generate cash flows that exceed the recoverable amount.
As a result some businesses will have no impairment in a particular year while others will.
First Brokers is dependent on a few key brokers and continues to operate as a stand-alone business.
The business is expected to see a decline in projected cash flows resulting from the shorter time remaining on key employees fixed contracts.
As a result, the Group has booked an impairment in the year of 4m 2009 7m.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 101 15 Intangible fixed assets continued a Intangible assets arising on consolidation continued Over the course of the past three years the Group has acquired a number of ship brokerage businesses which have been integrated to create a global platform operating across tankers wet and dry chartering, sale and purchase and derivative freight forward agreement.
The performance of the shipping industry is influenced by a combination of factors including global trade volumes, which are a function of world GDP and imbalances in the world fleet.
It is deeply cyclical in nature and typically exhibits trading peaks and troughs every three to four years.
Our business is no exception to this general rule and as such we have seen our profits in 2008 convert into modest losses in 2009 and 2010 as the industry suffers from a combination of over capacity and lower global trade.
Predicting the exact shape of future cycles is difficult, however, we believe the business will benefit from the increased number of ships needing to be brokered and an improving macro environment, where a recovery in levels of OECD trade and increased appetite by China and India to import raw materials should drive improved freight rates.
The outlook in the near term, however, remains uncertain.
We have, therefore, adopted a conservative approach when assessing the business prospects, limiting growth in volumes to world GDP rather than the higher rate of growth of the world fleet the potential market and assumed that the next peak in the cycle is delayed until 2015 when tanker rates get back to 2008 levels and dry cargo rates to 50% of 2008 levels.
We assume that the cycle then replicates with the next peak in 2019.
The resultant cash flows have been discounted using a rate of 11% which includes a 2% premium to reflect the higher level of cyclicality inherent in the shipping business which results in a recoverable amount in excess of the carrying value of the CGU and consequently no impairment.
We have also stress tested the model by assuming that the peak operating profit margin is limited to 75% of that seen in 2008 and, under this scenario, would achieve a position with a further 5% fall in volume or freight rates where the carrying value of the CGU equates to the recoverable amount.
The Group acquired Traiana, a leading provider of automated post trade processing services, in December 2007.
In early 2009 the Group employed external consultants to validate the business priorities and determine the expected growth trajectory for the next five years.
The findings of this report were used to assess the risk of impairment at 31 March 2009 and concluded that the recoverable amount would exceed the CGUs carrying value.
Traianas TRM and Harmony platforms are embedded into its clients systems and represent a key component of the way in which these organisations manage the work flow for the settlement of FX and as such, once installed tend to provide a relatively stable and growing source of revenue.
During the twelve months to 31 March 2010, the business performed ahead of plan and has made significant strategic advances in terms of deploying the Harmony platform to support the joint venture with CLS Group in FX aggregation and to move closer to being able to provide services to equity and futures market participants in 2011.
For the purposes of assessing impairment risk, we have considered the cash flows which will be generated by the established FX business and the expansion into equities and futures separately.
We have projected revenue growth for each of the products on a bottom up basis using market based growth assumptions out to 2015 and, thereafter, conservatively assumed no further growth and have applied a premium of 5% over ICAPs pre-tax cost of capital to the FX business to reflect the fact that the business while offering a proven technological solution, remains relatively small and represents a diversification of ICAPs core brokerage business and, in the case of the new businesses, a 11% premium reflecting the higher risk inherent in any new product launch.
Under these assumptions, the carrying value of the CGU exceeds the recoverable amount.
The recent financial crisis resulted in the loss and or consolidation of a number of the customers which existed when we acquired the business in December 2007.
Now that market conditions have stabilised and we understand how the successor organisations are planning to use the TRM and Harmony platforms, we have considered the value attributed to the customer relationship in respect of both platforms and, to the extent that the relationships are no longer generating platform revenue, the asset has been impaired resulting in the net carrying value being reduced by $8m 5m 2009 nil.
The Group has also taken an impairment of 1m in respect of smaller investments in Latin America.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 102 Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Intangible fixed assets continued b Intangible assets arising from development expenditure Intangible assets arising from development expenditure consist of the software development costs of electronic trading platforms and other assets and are generally amortised over three to five years.
The Group reviews the useful economic lives of these assets on a regular basis.
The amortisation and impairment of assets arising on development expenditure is included within profit before amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items in the consolidated income statement.
Intangible assets arising from development expenditure m Cost As at 1 April 2009 145 Additions 49 Disposals 6 Exchange adjustments 6 As at 31 March 2010 182 Amortisation and impairment As at 1 April 2009 91 Amortisation charge for the year 21 Impairment in the year 2 Disposals 1 Exchange adjustments 3 As at 31 March 2010 110 Net book value As at 31 March 2010 72 Cost As at 1 April 2008 94 Additions on acquisition of subsidiaries 1 Additions 28 Disposals 2 Exchange adjustments 24 As at 31 March 2009 145 Amortisation As at 1 April 2008 58 Charge for the year 17 Impairment in the year 1 Disposals 2 Exchange adjustments 17 As at 31 March 2009 91 Net book value As at 31 March 2009 54 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 103 16 Property and equipment Short leasehold Furniture, property fixtures and Motor improvements equipment vehicles Total m m m m Cost As at 1 April 2009 20 206 1 227 Additions on acquisition of subsidiaries note 14 a 1 1 Additions 3 15 18 Disposals 8 8 Exchange adjustments 5 5 As at 31 March 2010 23 209 1 233 Depreciation As at 1 April 2009 9 140 1 150 Charge for the year 2 20 22 Disposals 7 7 Exchange adjustments As at 31 March 2010 11 153 1 165 Net book value As at 31 March 2010 12 56 68 No assets are held under finance leases.
Leasehold property includes 3m of property held as freehold.
Short leasehold Furniture, property fixtures and Motor improvements vehicles Total equipment m m m m Cost As at 1 April 2008 17 135 1 153 Additions on acquisition of subsidiaries 1 1 Additions 234 36 Disposals 1 1 2 Exchange adjustments 2 37 39 As at 31 March 2009 20 206 1 227 Depreciation As at 1 April 2008 7 91 98 Charge for the year 1 21 1 23 Disposals 1 1 Exchange adjustments 1 29 30 As at 31 March 2009 9 140 1 150 Net book value As at 31 March 2009 11 66 77 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 104 Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Investment in associates Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Cost As at 1 April 44 41 Additions 3 3 Transfer from available-for-sale investments note 18 1 Share of profit for the year 7 9 Dividends received 7 4 Liquidated in year 3 Other movements 1 Transfer to other comprehensive income 10 Transfer to goodwill 2 Exchange adjustments 5 2 As at 31 March 40 44 Amortisation and impairment As at 1 April 6 7 Amortisation charge for the year 4 2 Liquidated in year 3 As at 31 March 10 6 Net book value As at 31 March 30 38 Additions During the year the Group invested a total of $1.9m 1.2m, including costs of $0.3m 0.2m, to acquire a 19.9% interest in Walker Street Securities Holdings LP Walker St Securities, a US investment partnership, and its subsidiary companies, including Ticonderoga Securities LLC Ticonderoga, a US company involved in securities broking.
The Group also acquired an option for $25,000 to acquire a further 55.1% in Walker St Securities.
The agreed cost to exercise this option is $2.7m 1.8m.
The option is recognised as a financial derivative current asset within other receivables, at its fair value.
At 31 March 2010 the Group considered the fair value of this option to be nil.
The Groups partners in Walker St Securities have a put option on the remaining 25% of the shares that allows them to require the Group to acquire their shares at an agreed price of six times profit after tax at any time from June 2012 to June 2016, capped at 4.99% of the value of the Group.
The Group also has a call option over these shares exercisable for the same period at eight times profit after tax.
In line with Group accounting policies, the put option is regarded as a financial derivative and the amount due recognised as a non-current liability in other payables, which represents the net present value of the amount which the Group expects to pay when the put is exercised.
At 31 March 2010 the Group considered the fair value of this put to be nil.
A non-current asset, representing the value of the shares which will be acquired as a result of the put being exercised, has been established in other receivables.
As at 31 March 2010 the fair value of the asset is regarded as nil.
In addition to the equity investment, the Group has made an initial interest-free loan to Walker St Securities of $2.7m 1.8m, which is repayable on exercise of the Groups option for the same amount.
This loan is treated as an investment in an associate.
During the year to 31 March 2010 Ticonderoga suffered a loss of $8.8m 5.5m of which the Groups share of $1.8m 1.1m has been recognised in the Groups consolidated income statement.
In addition an impairment of $2.7m 1.8m has been recognised against the investment in respect of the loan.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 105 17 Investment in associates continued Additions continued On 1 October 2009, the Group acquired an equity interest of 19.88% in Amias Berman Holdings Pte Limited and subsidiaries Amias Berman, a fixed income brokerage business based in Singapore, with operations in the UK and Hong Kong, for an initial consideration of 1,000.
In the period to 31 March 2010, Amias Berman suffered a trading loss of which the Groups share was 1.3m.
The trading loss has been offset against the Groups investment in Amias Berman reducing the carrying value to nil and the Group has recognised a loss of 0.3m in the consolidated income statement.
The Group has also acquired a call option for a nominal value of $1.
Although the Group has no plans to exercise this call, it provides the Group with the right to acquire a further 31.12% equity interest after two years.
In the event that such a decision is taken, on exercise, the remaining shareholders will have the right thereafter to put and ICAP the right to call their shares at a price determined in accordance with a pre-agreed formula linked to the businesss performance.
The call option is recognised as a financial instrument in non-current trade and other receivables and was initially recorded at its fair value of $1.
The option has been revalued as at 31 March 2010 to a fair value of 4.5m.
The revaluation change has been recognised in the second column, amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation, of the consolidated income statement on the share of profits of associates line.
On 31 December 2009 the Group invested $0.5m for a 49% interest in CLS Aggregation Services LLC, a US limited liability partnership.
The partnership is to provide post trade services to the FX market.
The Group is responsible for providing all technical and product services for a fixed fee and is entitled to royalty income of 49% of net revenue.
Transfer from available-for-sale As of 1 April 2009, the Group has a significant influence over the financial and operating policies of Amanah Butler Malaysia Sdn Bhd Amanah Butler and, accordingly, had transferred its investment in this business from available-for-sale investments to investment in associates at its book value of 0.5m.
Amanah Butler operates a voice money broker in Malaysia and the Group owns 32.1% of the equity.
Transfer to subsidiary On 24 March 2010, the Group completed the acquisition of the 61.78% of TriOptima which it did not previously own.
TriOptima is now regarded as a subsidiary company and accordingly the investment in associate has been transferred to investment in subsidiaries note 14.
The previously recognised profit of 10m, accounted for under the equity method, has been reversed through other comprehensive income.
The assets and liabilities of TriOptima have been removed from the analysis of assets and liabilities of associates, in the table below, and fully consolidated within the Groups balance sheet.
The acquisition of the remaining interest has resulted in the Groups share of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in the previous transaction being revalued with the adjustment of 45m recognised in other comprehensive income.
The Group has recognised its share of the profit after tax for the period to 24 March 2010 in the share of profits of associates after tax line.
Profits after 24 March 2010 have been fully consolidated within the Groups consolidated income statement.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 106 Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Investment in associates continued Summary financial information for associates The Groups share of associates assets, liabilities and profit is given below: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Assets 18 3,062 Liabilities 9 3,047 Net assets 9 15 Goodwill and intangible assets arising on consolidation 19 23 Prior year profits not recognised 2 Net investment in associates 30 38 Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Revenue 35 36 Operating expenses 25 26 Operating profit 10 10 Net finance income 1 Profit before tax 10 11 Tax 3 4 Share of profit of associates after tax 7 7 Details of the Groups associates are listed in note 36 d. The Group has recognised a charge against the investment in BSN Holdings Limited in the year as the amount received on the preferred brokerage agreement in the year has exceeded the Groups entitlement to dividends and net assets of the business.
Therefore, as at 31 March 2010 the Group is not entitled to any of the net assets of the business.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 107 18 Available-for-sale investments Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m As at 1 April 41 34 Additions 1 21 Transfer to associates note 17 1 Disposals 15 21 Revaluation to fair value in the year recognised in other comprehensive income 1 Exchange adjustments 2 8 As at 31 March 28 41 Non-current listed 1 1 unlisted 26 35 27 36 Current listed 1 1 unlisted 4 1 5 Total 28 41 Available-for-sale investments include the following: Listed securities Equities listed in the US 1 1 Equities listed in the rest of the world 1 1 Total listed securities 2 2 Unlisted securities Cash related instruments 2 15 Equity investments 22 22 Other 2 2 Total unlisted securities 26 39 Total 28 41 Available-for-sale investments are denominated in the following currencies: Other Pound sterling Dollar Euro Yen currencies Total m m m m m m As at 31 March 2010 9 3 12 1 3 28 As at 31 March 2009 8 6 13 1 13 41 The fair value of unlisted securities is based on cost less any provision for impairment.
The Group owns 40.0% of the ordinary share capital of KAF-Astley & Pearce Sdn Bhd, a voice broking company based in Malaysia.
This investment is not regarded as an associate as the Group does not exert significant influence on the investment, and it is included within unlisted investments above.
The interest rate profile of the Groups financial assets together with discussion of risk management are included in note 24.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 108 Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Trade and other receivables Group Group Company Company as at as at as at as at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Non-current receivables Derivative financial instruments 17 Other receivables 18 14 Total 35 14 Current receivables Matched principal trade receivables 58,632 30,454 Deposits paid for securities borrowed 1,034 880 Other trade receivables 209 216 Impairment of other trade receivables 4 4 Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 1 5 Derivative financial instruments 3 Amounts owed by subsidiaries note 32 36 37 Amounts owed by associates note 32 20 4 Other receivables 113 102 Prepayments 93 82 60,101 31,739 36 37 Matched principal transactions are those where the Group acts in a non-advisory capacity as principal in the commitment to purchase and sell securities and other financial instruments through two or more transactions between our customers.
Such trades have no contractual settlement date and are complete only when all sides of the transaction are settled, and therefore an aged analysis of matched principal trade receivables is not appropriate.
Substantially all matched principal receivables and payables settle within a short period of time, usually within three days of trade date.
Any unsettled trades that have gone beyond their normal settlement date remain in matched principal receivables or payables as appropriate.
Deposits paid for securities borrowed represents the cash paid as collateral in a stock lending transaction.
The Group acts as an intermediary between our customers for collateralised stock lending transactions.
Such trades are complete only when both the collateral and stock for each side of the transaction are returned.
The gross amounts of collateral due and receivable are disclosed on the balance sheet notes 20 and 24.
Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss relate to the Groups investment in the Pronous fund which is currently in the process of being wound up in an orderly manner.
The Group expects this liquidation to be completed in the coming year.
As at 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009, the fair value of trade and other receivables is not materially different from their book values.
Amounts owed by associates includes an interest free loan of 7m to Amias Berman, a $19.5m 13m investment in the redeemable preference shares issued by Ticonderoga, a subsidiary of Walker St Securities, and 5m of other loans to associates.
An adjustment of 5m has been made in respect of the recovery of these amounts.
Other trade receivables represent amounts receivable in respect of agency business and information services.
As at 31 March 2010 the following other trade receivables were past their normal settlement date but had not been impaired.
As at As at 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Over 30 days, but less than 90 days 48 44 Over 90 days, but less than 180 days 8 11 Over 180 days 4 5 60 60 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 109 19 Trade and other receivables continued The impairment provision is based on historical data for the trade receivables of the Group and represents the expected reduction in the amount receivable as a result of invoicing errors and other disputes and specific provisions for doubtful debts.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m As at 1 April 4 1 Charged to the consolidated income statement in the year 1 4 Released to the consolidated income statement in the year 1 1 As at 31 March 4 4 The table below gives an indication of the concentration of the Groups trade receivables by currency: As at 31 March 2010 Trade receivables Other Pound sterling Dollar Euro Yen currencies Total m m m m m m Matched principal trade receivables 3,317 42,772 6,112 5,071 1,360 58,632 Deposits paid for securities borrowed 1,034 1,034 Other trade receivables net 40 115 31 4 15 205 3,357 43,921 6,143 5,075 1,375 59,871 As at 31 March 2009 Trade receivables Other Pound sterling Dollar Euro Yen currencies Total m m m m m m Matched principal trade receivables 1,637 19,661 3,627 4,091 1,460 30,476 Deposits paid for securities borrowed 880 880 Other trade receivables net 40 117 30 5 20 212  1,48031,568 The interest rate profile of the Groups financial assets together with discussion of risk management are included in note 24.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 110 Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Trade and other payables Group Group Compamy Company as at as at as at as at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Current payables Matched principal trade payables 58,626 30,446 Deposits received for securities loaned 1,034 865 Other trade payables 4 7 Amounts owed to subsidiaries 660 614 Amounts owed to associates 2 2 Derivative financial instruments 6 48 Accruals 339 328 Other tax and social security 25 17 Deferred income 14 12 Other payables 28 65 Deferred consideration note 14 a 7 Contingent deferred consideration note 14 c 13 17 60,098 31,807 660 614 Non-current payables Accruals 24 26 Contingent deferred consideration note 14 c 6 31 Other payables 140 140 30 57 140 140 As at 31 March 2010 and 2009, the fair value of trade and other payables is not materially different from their book values.
The interest rate and maturity profiles of the Groups financial liabilities together with discussion of risk management are included in note 24.
Matched principal trade payables and deposits received for securities loaned are described in note 19.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 111 21 Deferred tax The movement in the deferred tax balance is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m As at 1 April 124 48 Amounts charged to the consolidated income statement 12 33 Adjustments credited to the consolidated income statement in respect of prior years 1 Amounts credited to the consolidated income statement in respect of amortisation of intangible assets arising on consolidation 20 22 Amounts recognised on the revaluation of available-for-sale investments 1 Amounts recognised on share-based payments 1 4 On acquisition of subsidiaries 31 30 Exchange adjustments 7 32 As at 31 March 140 124 The net deferred tax balance is represented by: Deferred tax assets 34 40 Deferred tax liabilities 174 164 As at 31 March 140 124 Deferred tax assets and liabilities comprise: Accelerated capital allowances 8 7 Other timing differences assets 26 33 Other timing differences liabilities 30 25 Liabilities on intangible assets arising on consolidation 144 139 A 140 124 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 112 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Borrowings Long-term borrowings Group Group Company Company year ended year ended year ended year ended 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m As at 1 April 270 97 New long-term borrowings 257 285 285 Issue costs capitalised 3 Amortisation of issue costs 1 Repaid in the year 135 150 285 Exchange adjustment 3 38 Fair value hedging adjustment 2 As at 31 March 395 270 Analysis of long-term borrowings Subordinated loan notes repayable 2015 127 135 Five year senior notes 268 Amortising term loan 135 As at 31 March 395 270 In June 2005, the Group issued $225m of guaranteed subordinated loan notes repayable in 2015.
The issue consisted of $32m floating rate notes and a further $193m of notes with a fixed coupon of 5.84% for the first five years and LIBOR plus 1.95% thereafter.
In June 2007 the Group redeemed the floating rate notes at par.
The carrying value of the loan notes of 270m includes a fair value hedging adjustment of 2m relating to the mark-to-market of the interest rate portion of the notes.
The balance of 268m is net of fees of 2m.
In April 2008, the Group entered into a 364-day, 150m term loan with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc to finance the acquisition of Link.
The Group subsequently restructured the loan into a 135m amortising term loan on 17 November 2008.
The restructured term loan was priced at LIBOR plus 3.0% and was repaid on 28 July 2009.
The weighted average effective interest rate for the year was 3.8% 31 March 2009 6.0%.
On 28 July 2009, the Group issued 300m of five-year senior notes the Notes with a coupon of 7.5% under its Global Medium Term Note programme.
The Notes were issued at a price of 99.496, accounted for using the effective interest rate base and shown net of both this discount and fees of 2m directly attributable to the issue.
The Notes rank as senior obligations of the issuer and provide the investors, following a change of control in the Company, with the right to put the Notes at par in the event that the rating assigned to the Notes falls below investment grade.
The Notes are listed and traded on the London Stock Exchanges regulated market.
At 31 March 2010 the Notes were rated BBB by Fitch and Baa2 by Moodys.
In the event that either of these ratings fall below investment grade the coupon payable on the Notes will increase by 1.25% until such time as an investment grade rating is restored.
To enable the Group to manage the translational exposure which arises as a result of the Notes being denominated in euros and to meet its risk management objective of minimising both interest cost and the impact of interest volatility on its consolidated income statement, the Group entered into a number of cross-currency swaps to convert its obligations over the life of the Notes from euros to pound sterling.
The first 100m of the Notes have been swapped from a fixed euro-denominated coupon of 7.5% to a fixed pound sterling denominated coupon of 8.58% and the remaining 200m from a fixed euro-denominated coupon of 7.5% to a floating pound sterling denominated coupon of six month LIBOR 4.92%.
The fixed to fixed swaps have been accounted for as a cash flow hedge and at 31 March 2010 have a fair market value of 2m 2009 nil.
These swaps offset the effect of FX on the Notes, which resulted in a nil charge being recognised in the consolidated income statement and 3m in other comprehensive income during the year.
The fixed to floating swaps have been treated as a fair value hedge, have a fair market value of 11m 2009 nil at 31 March 2010 and resulted in a net 2m gain being recognised in the consolidated income statement during the year.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 113 22 Borrowings continued Short-term borrowings and overdrafts Group Group Company Company as at as at as at as at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Bank overdrafts 14 Revolving credit facility net of fees 217 275 European commercial paper 40 40 257 289 40 In March 2008, the Group entered into a three-year unsecured revolving credit facility of which 473m is available for general corporate purposes including the financing of acquisitions, with the remaining $94m used as a swingline to meet margin calls.
The drawings under the revolving credit facility as at 31 March 2010 of 217m 2009 277m are net of capitalised fees of nil 2009 2m.
To take advantage of lower short-term interest rates, the amounts drawn as at 31 March 2010 were for a one-week period and have been included within short-term borrowings.
The facility carries a floating interest rate of LIBOR plus 0.45% with an additional 0.10% payable dependent on the debt to earnings ratio.
The weighted average effective interest rate for the year was 1.0% 2009 3.5%.
On 7 May 2010, the Group refinanced its existing 473m three-year unsecured revolving credit facility and $94m swingline with a new $880m revolving credit facility incorporating an up to $200m swingline facility, and matures on 31 May 2013.
The facility carries a floating interest rate at LIBOR plus 2% with an additional 0.50% payable dependent on the debt to earnings ratio.
During March 2009, the Group put in place a 500m European commercial paper programme to provide access to short-term liquidity to provide an alternative mechanism to finance the Groups working capital and margin requirements.
At 31 March 2010 the Group had in issue 45m 40m 2009 nil from the programme which is due to be repaid by June 2010.
The weighted average effective interest rate was 1.0%.
Bank overdrafts are for short-term funding and are repayable on demand, and are generally being repaid within a very short time period.
The Groups bank facilities contain a number of customary financial and operational covenants.
The Group remained in compliance with the terms of these covenants throughout the year ended 31 March 2010.
Under the terms of the Groups bank financings, the Company is required to remain as the ultimate holding company in the Group.
A change in ownership of the Company could result in the Groups new three-year unsecured revolving credit facility becoming repayable.
The fair value of the short-term borrowings is not materially different from their book values.
Group Group as at as at 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 Maturity of undrawn committed borrowing facilities m m Within one year Between one and two years 318 336 Between two and five years As at 31 March 318 336 As at 31 March 2010, the Company was rated BBB by Fitch and Baa2 by Moodys.
There has been no changes in ratings since 31 March 2009.
The interest rate, currency and maturity profiles of borrowings together with discussion on risk management are included in note 24.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 114 Notes to the financial statements continued 23 Provisions Property Holiday pay Legal Other Total m m m m m As at 1 April 2009 7 5 10 22 Amounts recognised on the acquisition of subsidiaries 1 46 47 Amounts charged against provisions 2 2 Recognised in the consolidated income statement 1 23 24 Released to the consolidated income statement 2 4 6 Exchange adjustment 1 7 6 As at 31 March 2010 4 5 53 29 91 Property Holiday pay Other Total m m m m As at 1 April 2008 1 4 11 16 Amounts charged against provisions 1 1 2 Recognised in the consolidated income statement 6 1 2 9 Released to the consolidated income statement 2 2 Exchange adjustment 1 1 As at 31 March 2009 7 5 10 22 As at As at 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Included in current liabilities 36 20 Included in non-current liabilities 55 2 91 22 Property provisions outstanding at 31 March 2010 relate to property dilapidations in London that are not expected to be fully utilised until 2017.
The provision for surplus property in London and Asia Pacific has been substantially utilised in the current year.
The holiday pay provision represents the value of employees unused holiday entitlement at the end of the reporting period.
Legal provisions represents amounts for certain claims brought against subsidiaries of the Group in relation to certain tax matters.
The provisions were those that have been acquired by the Group on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings.
At the present time the timing of any payment is uncertain and the matter is being reviewed by the Group on a regular basis.
In the directors opinion, after taking legal advice, the outcome of these legal claims will not give rise to any significant loss beyond the amounts provided at 31 March 2010.
Other provisions include obligations for certain employee related costs, including those related to the discontinuance of the European and Asia Pacific full service agency cash equities businesses as set out in note 6, and pension arrangements in the Group which are expected to be discharged over the next two years.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 115 24 Financial risk management Group The Group operates internationally and is exposed to a variety of financial risks including credit, liquidity, currency, interest rate and market price risk.
The Groups funding and exposure to interest rate and FX rate risk are managed by the Groups treasury function in accordance with a policy framework approved by the finance committee.
The framework lays out the Groups appetite for risk and the steps to be taken to manage these risks.
The finance committee receives bi-monthly reports on the activities of the treasury function and is also responsible for approving significant transactions such as new financing arrangements or changes to the Groups hedging strategy.
The group risk committee sets and monitors treasurys counterparty limits.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance by using derivative instruments to lower funding costs, alter interest rate exposures arising as a result of mismatches between assets and liabilities or to achieve greater certainty of future costs.
The use of derivatives forms part of the Groups overall risk management framework as determined by the board through the group risk and finance committees.
a Financial assets and liabilities The carrying value less impairment of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values due to their short-term nature.
As at 31 March 2010 and 2009, the fair values of financial assets are not materially different from their book values.
Classification of financial assets as at 31 March 2010 Held for Hedging Designated as AvailableLoans and trading instrument fair value for-sale receivables Total m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 504 504 Available-for-sale financial assets 28 28 Matched principal trade receivables 58,632 58,632 Deposits paid for securities borrowed 1,034 1,034 Other trade receivables net 205 205 Held at fair value through profit or loss 1 1 Derivative financial instruments 5 15 20 Amounts owed by associates 20 20 Other receivables 91 91 5 15 1 28 60,486 60,535 Classification of financial assets as at 31 March 2009 Held for Designated as AvailableLoans and trading fair value for-sale receivables Total m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 433 433 Available-for-sale financial assets 41 41 Matched principal trade receivables 30,454 30,454 Deposits paid for securities borrowed 880 880 Other trade receivables net 212 212 Held at fair value through profit or loss 5 5 Derivative financial instruments Amounts owed by associates 44 Other receivables 114 114 5 41 32,097 32,143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 116 Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Financial risk management continued a Financial assets and liabilities continued Financial assets can be reconciled to the balance sheet as follows: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Trade and other receivables: current receivables note 19 60,101 31,739 non-current receivables note 19 35 14 Available-for-sale financial assets note 18 28 41 Cash and cash equivalents note 33 b 504 433 Excluded: non-financial other receivables 40 2 prepayments 93 82 60,535 32,143 Prepayments and certain items included within other receivables are not defined as financial assets under IAS39.
Assets classified as fair value through profit or loss in accordance with the accounting policy in note 2 i have been analysed in note 24 a as held for trading and designated as fair value.
As at 31 March 2010 and 2009, the fair values of financial liabilities, with the exception of long-term borrowings, are not materially different from their book values.
Classification of financial liabilities as at 31 March 2010 Held for Hedging Amortised trading instruments cost Total m m m m Matched principal trade payables 58,626 58,626 Deposits received for securities loaned 1,034 1,034 Other trade payables 4 4 Derivative financial instruments 2 4 6 Amounts owed to associates 2 2 Other payables 25 25 Contingent deferred consideration 19 19 Deferred consideration 7 7 Accruals 363 363 Borrowings and overdrafts 652 652 Provisions 32 32 2 4 60,764 60,770 Classification of financial liabilities as at 31 March 2009 Held for Hedging Amortised trading instruments cost Total m m m m Matched principal trade payables 30,446 30,446 Deposits received for securities loaned 865 865 Other trade payables 7 7 Derivative financial instruments 1 47 48 Amounts owed to associates 2 2 Other payables 65 65 Contingent deferred consideration 48 48 Accruals 354 354 Borrowings and overdrafts 559 559 Provisions 12 12 14732,358 32,406 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 117 24 Financial risk management continued a Financial assets and liabilities continued Financial liabilities can be reconciled to the balance sheet as follows: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Trade and other payables: Current payables 60,098 31,807 Non-current payables 30 57 Borrowings and overdrafts note 22 652 559 Provisions note 23 91 22 Excluded: Non-financial other provisions 59 10 Non-financial other payables 3 Other tax and social security 25 17 Deferred income 14 12 60,770 32,406 Taxes payable, deferred income and certain provisions are not classified as financial liabilities under IAS39.
b Credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by counterparties in respect of its agency, matched principal, exchange trades and corporate treasury operations.
The risk in respect of the agency, post trade risk and information businesses is limited to the collection of agency commission and transaction fees and is managed proactively by the Groups credit control function.
The exposure to credit loss is limited to the carrying value of the receivable.
Concentration is limited since the customer base is both large and unrelated.
No significant concentrations of risk existed at any time during the year.
The matched principal business involves the Group acting as a counterparty on trades which may involve one or more financial instruments and or counterparties.
The Group manages its credit risk in respect of these transactions by having policies and procedures in place to ensure that the risks inherent in all trades are matched and that appropriate credit limits have been set and are monitored at entity, company and country level to restrict the exposure to potential loss, transacting on a delivery versus payment basis and settling the majority of trades through a central counterparty.
The credit risk on core cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments is limited by the Groups policy of requiring its corporate treasury transactions to be undertaken with financial institutions which have been approved by the group risk committee and which are investment grade rated or better by one or more recognised credit rating agencies.
There were no significant concentrations of risk at the year end.
The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty.
The Groups gross counterparty risk did not exceed 18% of Group capital at any time during the year.
After taking into account the probability of default of counterparties, the equivalent usage of capital was less than 1% of Group capital.
At least 85% of the Groups counterparty risk is with institutions which have an internal rating of nine or higher corresponding to an external credit rating of investment grade or better BBB.
The remaining counterparties are closely monitored and have strict trading limits.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for the Group is represented by the total fair value of the financial assets plus other off-balance sheet items as disclosed below: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Financial assets of the Group 60,533 32,143 Guarantees given to counterparties 197 122 60,730 32,265 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 118 Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Financial risk management continued b Credit risk continued The Group holds cash deposits from a number of counterparties as collateral against their trading lines with the Group.
The Groups cash balance includes 60m which is collateral placed with clearers and other organisations to facilitate the Groups clearing and settlement activities.
Collateral pledged and received as a result of the stock lending business is disclosed in trade and other receivables and trade and other payables notes 19 and 20. c Liquidity risk management Through the finance committee, the board regularly reviews the liquidity demands of the Group with the objective of ensuring that each entity has access to appropriate forms of liquidity to meet their forecast regulatory, commercial and settlement requirements and that the Group, in totality, has sufficient headroom to provide constant access, even in periods of market turmoil, to an appropriate level of cash, other forms of marketable securities and committed funding lines to enable it to finance its ongoing operations, proposed acquisitions and other reasonable unanticipated events on cost-effective and attractive terms.
At 31 March 2010, the Group had gross debt of 652m 2009 559m and cash and cash equivalents of 504m 2009 433m.
It is the Groups policy to only hold cash necessary to meet local regulatory, commercial, settlement and short-term working capital requirements and for excess cash to be used to minimise gross debt.
Cash has increased from 31 March 2009 due to expansion into new businesses, cash held in the newly acquired TriOptima over the year end, cash in the Groups Brazilian operations and increased cash held centrally for potential liquidity calls.
The Group invests its cash balances in a range of capital protected instruments including money market deposits, AAA liquidity funds and government bonds with the objective of optimising the return, while having regard to security, liquidity and counterparty risk.
With the exception of some small, local cash management balances, surplus cash is invested with strong investment grade institutions which have an equivalent credit rating of A or better.
Counterparty limits applied are reviewed by the finance and group risk committees.
Although the Group does not undertake proprietary trading, it is subject to a combination of margin and collateral requirements of the clearing houses or exchanges used to settle certain client trades.
The most significant margin requirements arise in the US where, as part of its broking business, it provides clearing services to clients and is required to deposit margin with the FICC and NSCC.
During the year to 31 March 2010, these deposits averaged $50m.
The deposits are met through a combination of internal cash resources and the $94m swingline facility note 22.
The Group has no other material margin requirements on a routine basis.
To provide protection against unexpected events, the Group has traditionally maintained minimum core liquidity, in the form of cash and undrawn debt facilities, of 150m $250m.
The headroom remained undrawn throughout the year.
At 31 March 2010, the Group had committed headroom under its core credit facilities of 318m 2009 336m.
The table below shows the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on the contractual amount payable on the date of repayment: Maturity of financial liabilities as at 31 March 2010 Less than Three months One to Greater than three months to one year five years five years Total m m m m m Matched principal trade payables 58,626 58,626 Deposits received for securities loaned 1,034 1,034 Other trade payables 4 4 Derivative financial instruments 3 3 6 Amounts owed to associates 2 2 Other payables 25 25 Contingent deferred consideration 13 6 19 Deferred consideration 7 7 Accruals 243 95 25 363 Borrowings and overdrafts 257 395 652 Provisions 28 4 32 60,201 139 430 60,770 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 119 24 Financial risk management continued c Liquidity risk management continued Maturity of financial liabilities as at 31 March 2009 Less than Three months One to Greater than three months to one year five years five years Total m m m m m Matched principal trade payables 30,446 30,446 Deposits received for securities loaned 865 865 Other trade payables 7 7 Derivative financial instruments 15 29 4 48 Amounts owed to associates 2 2 Other payables 64 1 65 Contingent deferred consideration 17 31 48 Accruals 328 26 354 Borrowings and overdrafts 289 270 559 Provisions 3 7 2 12 32,03637333 32,406 The total financial liabilities payable is higher than the amount recognised in trade and other payables as the gross amounts payable have been disclosed, rather than the net present value used in determining trade and other payables.
d Currency risk The Group presents its consolidated financial statements in pound sterling and conducts business in a number of other currencies, principally the dollar and euro.
Consequently the Group is exposed to FX risk due to exchange rate movements which affect the Groups transactional revenues and the translation of the earnings and net assets of its non-pound sterling operations.
i Transactional exposures The Groups policy is for subsidiaries with pound sterling functional currency to hedge their main transactional exposures, which are the dollar and the euro, through a combination of forward FX contracts and options for up to two years forward.
A maximum of 100% of the forecast exposure is hedged for the first 12 months, 75% for the following six months and 25% thereafter.
The Groups other transactional exposures are monitored and, where deemed appropriate, hedged for a period of 12 months forward.
The Group aims to achieve hedge accounting wherever possible with any gain or loss on the hedge recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent it is highly effective and recycled to the consolidated income statement at the same time as the underlying hedged transaction affects the consolidated income statement.
Any ineffectiveness is taken to the consolidated income statement in accordance with IAS39.
Where hedge accounting is not achieved, all fair value gains or losses are immediately recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The Group has contracts in place, designated as cash flow hedges under IAS39 where appropriate, covering approximately 79% of its forecast dollar transactional exposure for the year to 31 March 2011 at $1.51.
Approximately 84% of the Groups euro exposure has been hedged for the year to 31 March 2011 at 1.14 and 25% of its exposure to 31 March 2012 at 1.12.
An analysis of the Groups hedging instruments is given below.
ii Balance sheet translational exposure The Group is exposed to balance sheet translational exposures at the local entity level where the local statement of financial position may contain monetary assets or liabilities denominated in a currency other than the entitys functional currency.
It is the Groups policy to hedge up to 100% of these exposures using a mix of foreign currency swaps and forward FX contracts and these are designated as hedges under IAS39 where appropriate.
Balance sheet translational exposures also arise on consolidation as a result of the retranslation of the balance sheet of the Groups non-pound sterling operations, principally dollar and euro, into pound sterling, the Groups presentational currency.
The Groups general policy is not to actively manage these exposures, as active management using instruments with a shorter tenor than the underlying net asset can give rise to a net cash outflow.
However, from time to time it will use FX forwards, cross currency swaps or non-pound sterling denominated borrowings to mitigate this exposure.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2010, the Group designated the subordinated loan notes as a hedging instrument against the underlying dollar exposure.
In the prior year the Group designated the subordinated loan notes and also part of its dollar denominated bank borrowings as a hedge between August 2008 and February 2009.
Any gains or losses on revaluation are recognised directly in other comprehensive income to offset the revaluation of the net investment.
As at 31 March 2010 this exposure was $0.9bn 2009 $0.8bn including intangible assets arising on consolidation, but before $0.2bn of hedging 2009 $0.2bn.
The net cash impact, being the proportion of the borrowings which relate to the cumulative losses recognised in other comprehensive income attributable to the net investment hedges for the 12 months to 31 March 2010 was nil and in the prior year was 32m.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 120 Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Financial risk management continued d Currency risk continued ii Balance sheet translational exposure continued During the year ended 31 March 2010, with respect to pound sterling, the dollar depreciated by 6% and the euro depreciated by 4%.
In accordance with IAS21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, the resulting translational exchange difference is included within the 41m exchange loss taken directly to retained earnings, as disclosed in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The Group does not have foreign operations whose functional currency are considered hyperinflationary and would therefore require adjusting to state all items in the measuring unit current at the reporting date.
The table below shows the actual impact on the Groups 2010 results of the movement during the year of the dollar and euro exchange rates in terms of transactional and translational exposure.
Dollar Euro Total m m m Operating profit 38 13 51 Equity 34 7 41 iii Earnings translation exposures The Group does not hedge the translation of those profits or losses earned by its non-pound sterling operations.
The table below shows the anticipated impact on the Groups 2011 results of a 10 cent strengthening in the dollar and euro in terms of transactional and translational exposure.
Dollar Euro Total m m m Operating profit 22 17 39 Equity 44 27 71 The principal exchange rates which affect the Group, expressed in currency per pound sterling, are shown below: Closing rate Closing rate Average rate Average rate as at as at year ended year ended 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 2010 2009 Dollar 1.52 1.43 1.59 1.72 Euro 1.12 1.08 1.13 1.21 Yen 141.74 141.57 147.35 174.74 iv Derivative financial instruments It is the Groups policy to hedge a proportion of its transactional dollar and euro exposures with forward FX contracts.
Where these are designated and documented as hedging instruments in the context of IAS39 and are demonstrated to be effective, mark-to-market gains and losses are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and transferred to the consolidated income statement on recognition of the underlying item being hedged.
As at 31 March 2010 As at 31 March 2009 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Forward FX contracts cash flow hedges 2 4 47 Cross currency swaps cash flow hedges 2 Cross currency swaps fair value hedges 11 Other 5 2 1 20 6 48 Cross currency swaps relate to hedging the interest rate and FX risks of the Group for the 300m of five-year senior notes note 22.
No amounts 2009 nil were recognised in the consolidated income statement in the year as a result of ineffective hedges.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices on the balance sheet date.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 121 24 Financial risk management continued e Interest rate risk The Group has an exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on both its cash positions and borrowings which it manages through a combination of pound sterling and dollar debt drawn on fixed and floating rate terms.
The Groups objective is to minimise interest cost and the impact of interest volatility on the Groups consolidated income statement.
In addition to debt, the Groups treasury policies also permit the use of derivatives including interest rate swaps, interest rate options, forward rate agreements and cross currency swaps to meet these objectives.
The details of the cross currency swaps are disclosed in note 22.
At 31 March 2010, after taking into account cross currency and FX swaps of the euro denominated five-year senior notes and commercial paper, the Group had 156m of cash, 437m of floating rate debt and 90m of fixed rate debt denominated in pound sterling, 232m of cash and 127m of fixed rate debt denominated in dollars or currencies closely related to the dollar and 116m of cash denominated in other currencies.
A 100 basis-points parallel movement in pound sterling LIBOR and LIBID rates would impact profit after tax and other comprehensive income by 3m with a similar movement in dollar rates impacting profit after tax and other comprehensive income by 2m.
In the event that LIBOR and LIBID rates diverge, each 100 basispoints movement i. e. 50 basis-points movement in each in pound sterling and dollar rates will impact profit after tax and other comprehensive income by 3m and 1m respectively.
The details of the interest rate bearing financial liabilities are disclosed in note 22. f Market price risk The Groups exposure to market price risk arises mainly through counterparties to matched principal and exchange traded transactions failing to fulfil their obligations or through trade mismatches and other errors.
The Group is also exposed to market price risk in respect of its available-for-sale investments.
In matched principal transactions, the Group acts as an intermediary by serving as counterparty for identified buyers and sellers in matching, in whole or in part, reciprocal back-to-back trades.
In order to facilitate customer transactions and provide liquidity, the Group may participate in certain marketplaces by posting quotations.
On occasion, the act of posting quotations in pursuit of customer orders can result in the Group becoming principal to unmatched trades.
In exchange traded transactions, the Group executes the trade as principal and then novates the contract to its client.
A failure by the client to accept the trade would result in the Group becoming exposed to market price risk.
The risk the Group faces in these situations is restricted to short-term price movements in the underlying instrument temporarily held by the Group and movements in FX rates.
Any such market price risk arising is identified, monitored and reported to senior management on a daily basis and to the group risk committee.
Policies and procedures are in place to reduce the likelihood of such trade mismatches and, in the event that they arise, the Groups policy is to liquidate or hedge and liquidate these principal positions as soon as reasonably practicable.
The Group has limited exposure to market price risk on its available-for-sale financial assets as the majority of the Groups equity investments are not listed.
The Group estimates that its sensitivity to movements in market price is not material.
g Fair value estimation The Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value are financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and derivative financial instruments.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are valued at the most recent observable quoted price.
Derivative financial instruments are measured using inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability indirectly that is derived from prices available.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value as at 31 March 2010.
As at 31 March 2010 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Total m m m m Assets Available-for-sale investment 2 26 28 Financial assets at fair value through consolidated income statement 1 1 Derivative financial instruments 15 5 20 Total assets 2 15 32 49 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 6 6 Total liabilities 6 6 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 122 Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Financial risk management continued Company The Companys approach to risk is governed by the overall Group policies on risk and the limited activities of the Company limit its exposure to risk.
a Financial assets and liabilities All of the Companys financial assets are classified as loans and receivables and the financial liabilities are held at amortised cost.
The fair value of these assets and liabilities is not materially different from their book values.
b Credit risk The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by counterparties.
This risk is considered minimal as all counterparties are Group companies and the risk of non-payment is viewed as low.
c Liquidity risk management The Company seeks to ensure that it has constant access to an appropriate level of cash and funding to enable it to fund its ongoing operations, proposed acquisitions and other reasonable unanticipated events on cost effective and attractive terms.
If the Company has any cash, it is loaned intra-group for further investment.
All of the Companys financial liabilities are payable within three months, with the exception of subordinated loans owed to subsidiaries of 140m, which have a maturity of more than five years.
d Currency risk i Transactional exposures The Company has an immaterial exposure to transactional exposure.
ii Balance sheet translational exposures The Company is exposed to balance sheet translational exposures where the balance sheet contains assets or liabilities denominated in a currency other than pound sterling.
While it is the Groups policy to hedge up to 100% of these exposures at Group level, at Company level these exposures can affect the Companys profit after tax.
The table below shows the Companys net financial liabilities denominated in foreign currency and hence the Companys exposure to currency risk: As at 31 March 2010 Dollar Euro Other Total m m m m Net financial liabilities 40 40 As at 31 March 2009 Dollar Euro Other Total m m m m Net financial liabilities 14 14 The Company estimates that a 10 cent movement in the euro pound sterling exchange rate would result in a translational impact of 3m on the profit after tax of the Company.
e Interest rate risk The Company is exposed to interest rate movements as a result of issuance under its commercial paper programme see below.
It is estimated that the impact of a 100 basis-points movement in interest rates would not have a significant impact on the profit after tax of the Company.
The table below gives an indication of the interest rate profile of the financial assets of the Company: As at 31 March 2010 At fixed At floating Non-interest interest interest bearing rates rates Total m m m m Amounts owed by subsidiaries 36 36 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 123 24 Financial risk management continued e Interest rate risk continued As at 31 March 2009 At fixed At floating Non-interest interest interest bearing rates rates Total m m m m Amounts owed by subsidiaries 37 37 The table below gives an indication of the interest rate profile of the financial liabilities of the Company: As at 31 March 2010 At fixed At floating Non-interest interest interest bearing rates rates Total m m m m Amounts owed to subsidiaries 800 800 European commercial paper 40 40 Net financial liabilities 800 40 840 As at 31 March 2009 At fixed At floating Non-interest interest interest bearing rates rates Total m m m m Amounts owed to subsidiaries 754 754 f Market price risk The Company is not exposed to market price risk as it holds no listed investments.
25 Capital management ICAP is an international business which provides brokerage, post trade risk and information services in a wide range of products to professional counterparties.
The business is subject to consolidated supervision by the FSA under the terms of the CRD.
In March 2007, ICAP obtained a waiver from the consolidated capital adequacy tests which have the effect of excluding goodwill from the capital computation and, in so doing, allows the Group to undertake acquisitions using debt rather than equity finance.
The terms of the waiver, which runs until the end of March 2012, limits the Groups ability to incur market risk and, in effect, prohibits the Group from undertaking proprietary trading activities.
The Groups Pillar 1 regulatory capital headroom represents the difference between the capital resources of the Company, on a stand-alone basis, and the regulatory capital requirements of the Group calculated, in accordance with the requirements of the waiver, on an aggregate basis.
The Groups Pillar 1 regulatory capital requirement calculated under the CRD waiver is relatively stable.
However, as a result of timing differences in the receipt of dividends from subsidiaries and the payment to ICAPs shareholders, the Groups regulatory capital and consequently the Pillar 1 headroom may fluctuate.
As at 31 March 2010 the Group had in excess of 500m of Pillar 1 headroom.
CRD requires ICAP, under Pillar 2, to evaluate the risks facing the business and to determine whether the Pillar 1 capital is sufficient to cover any expected losses.
The Group has developed a scenario-based model which utilises data provided by the business to assess the economic capital required to cover the expected risks and, at 31 March 2010, viewed the Pillar 1 capital as sufficient to cover the identified risks.
The analysis of economic capital is documented in the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP which is required by the FSA, regularly updated and formally approved by the board annually.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 124 Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Capital management continued In general, higher levels of market volatility result in increased demand for the Groups brokerage and post trade risk and information.
From a regulatory capital perspective, however, the impact is significantly dampened by the fact that much of this incremental business occurs in markets which operate on a name give-up basis or are cleared through a central counterparty.
Therefore, we would expect any increase in activity to have a limited impact on the Groups capital resource requirement and, as such, absent a material acquisition, loss of the waiver or a change in the basis of computation, existing capital resources are viewed as sufficient to both operate and grow the business.
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group meet their local regulatory requirements, while maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt which includes borrowings note 22, cash and cash equivalents note 33 b and equity note 28.
At 31 March 2010, the Groups net debt was 148m 2009 126m note 33 c. The Groups finance committee reviews the capital structure on a regular basis.
As part of this review, the committee considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
Based on the recommendations of the committee, the Group balances its overall capital structure through the payment of dividends, new share issues and share buybacks, as well as taking on new debt or refinancing existing debt.
A number of the Groups trading companies are subject to regulation in the jurisdiction in which they operate, principally by the FSA in the UK and the SEC FINRA in the US.
All such companies have complied with their regulatory capital requirements throughout the year.
26 Share capital a Authorised share capital of the Company As at 31 March 2010 As at 31 March 2009 Number of Nominal Number of Nominal shares value shares value millions m millions m Equity share capital Ordinary shares of 10p each 1,100 110 900 90 1,100 110 900 90 b Issued share capital Year ended 31 March 2010 Year ended 31 March 2009 Number of Nominal Number of Nominal shares value shares value Allotted, called up and fully paid millions m millions m As at 1 April 650 65 650 65 Issued during the year 7 1 As at 31 March 657 66 650 65 During the year 2,074,617 2009 370,861 ordinary shares of 10p each were issued following the exercise of options held under employee share schemes for a consideration of 4.8m 2009 0.4m.
692,226 ordinary shares of 10p each have been issued during the year for the acquisition of Ocean Tomo for a consideration of 3m.
4,567,807 ordinary shares of 10p each have been issued during the year for the purposes of a scrip dividend for which there were notional proceeds of 20m.
The cost of Treasury Shares is deducted from retained earnings note 28.
The cost of shares held in employee share trusts is loaned to the trusts by the Company and is treated as other receivables.
Full details of share option schemes are given in note 27. d Shares held in trust for employee share schemes The Company has established employee share trusts in respect of the SEEPP, BSMP, LTIP and Traiana Plan which are funded by the Company and have the power to acquire shares in the open market to meet the Companys future obligations under these schemes.
As at 31 March 2010, these trusts owned 6,527,547 ordinary 10p shares in the Company 2009 14,510,959 with a market value of 24m 2009 45m.
Number of shares millions Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 As at 1 April 15 12 Acquired during the year 2 4 Exercised by employees during the year 10 1 As at 31 March 7 15 e Treasury Shares During the year the Company purchased none 2009 2,620,000 of its own shares 2009 9m to be held as Treasury Shares and re-issued no shares 2009 1,636,430 to satisfy employee share options exercised 2009 2m.
As at 31 March 2010, the number of shares held as Treasury Shares was 2,034,739 2009 2,034,739.
Losses made on the re-issue of Treasury Shares are recognised directly in equity.
Number of shares millions Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 As at 1 April 2 1 Acquired during the year 3 Shares reissued to satisfy options exercised 2 As at 31 March 2 2 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 126 Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Share awards Employee share schemes The total charge to the consolidated income statement in respect of employee share options in the year was 10m 2009 8m.
The fair value of options granted during the year was 9m 2009 10m.
At the close of business on 31 March 2010, the market price of the Companys ordinary shares was 373.80p 2009 304.25p per share and during the year fluctuated in the range 294.00p and 467.20p per share.
Options over ICAP shares are awarded at market price on the date of grant in the UCSOP and UESOP schemes.
Those in the SEEPP UK and the BSMP have a nominal exercise price of a 1.00 for each basic award and 1.00 for each matching award.
The SEEPP US options have an exercise price of $0.445.
Options granted under the SAYE are issued with a 20% discount on market price as permitted by HMRC, and those granted under the Traiana Plan were granted at the equivalent price to the original Traiana option.
The awards under the LTIP have no exercise price.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 127 27 Share awards continued Employee share schemes continued All share options granted since 7 November 2002 are subject to IFRS2 Share-based Payment.
A charge to the income statement based on the fair value of each option is made each year.
The fair value of each option is calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The following assumptions have been applied when calculating the fair value of the options granted in the year: Weighted Weighted Probability average Expected average Average of achieving market share dividend risk free Expected performance Vesting price volatility yield rate life conditions period pence % % % years % years 2009 SAYE 403.8 55 4.22 2.85 3.1 100 3 BSMP 3.90 55 4.0 90 3 LTIP 3.90 55 3.0 100 3 Estimated share volatility is a measure of the amount by which the Companys shares are expected to fluctuate during the life of an option.
The expected volatility is estimated based on the historic volatility of the share price over the past three years to the date of grant of the option.
On options where the employee receives a cash bonus in lieu of the dividend foregone the dividend yield is treated as nil and the fair value of the option is equal to the market value of the share.
i Unapproved Share Option Plan UESOP The UESOP is not approved by HMRC and is open to all executives.
The grants of options have a maximum overall grant of four times annual salary including bonuses.
Options do not vest until the Group has achieved certain performance criteria currently growth in adjusted basic EPS in excess of growth in the RPI by an average of 3% per annum over a three-year period.
UESOP options were outstanding over 312,500 2009 435,029 ordinary shares at exercise prices ranging between 233.75p and 263.0p per share.
Subject to the Groups performance during the vesting period, these options are exercisable between June 2007 and December 2014.
There was no charge made to the consolidated income statement in the year 2009 nil in respect of these options.
These options are all equity settled.
ii Sharesave scheme SAYE The Save-As-You-Earn SAYE scheme is approved by HMRC.
The scheme enables directors and eligible employees to acquire options over ordinary shares of the Company at a discount of up to 20% of their market price using the proceeds of a related SAYE contract.
All UK employees who have worked for the minimum qualifying period on an invitation date are eligible to join the scheme.
Options granted under the SAYE scheme are not subject to performance conditions.
2006 SAYE There were no SAYE options outstanding over ordinary shares 2009 945,544 for the 2006 three-year grant at an exercise price of 388.0p per share.
A credit of 0.1m 2009 0.5m charge was made to the consolidated income statement in respect of these options in the year.
2007 SAYE SAYE options were outstanding over 88,576 2009 272,266 ordinary shares for the 2007 three-year grant at an exercise price of 419.0p per share.
Subject to the participants remaining in the employment of the Group and making 36 monthly contributions, these options will normally be exercisable between August 2010 and January 2011.
A charge of 0.1m 2009 0.2m was made to the consolidated income statement in respect of these options in the year.
2008 SAYE SAYE options were outstanding over 59,191 2009 505,824 ordinary shares for the 2008 three-year grant at an exercise price of 488.0p per share.
Subject to the participants remaining in the employment of the Group and making 36 monthly contributions, these options will normally be exercisable between August 2011 and January 2012.
A charge of 0.6m 2009 0.7m was made to the consolidated income statement in respect of these options in the year.
2009 SAYE SAYE options were granted over 2,745,053 ordinary shares on 17 June 2009 for the 2009 three-year grant at an exercise price of 323.0p per share.
Subject to the participants remaining in the employment of the Group and making 36 monthly contributions, these options will normally be exercisable between August 2012 and January 2013.
A charge of 1.2m was made to the consolidated income statement in respect of these options in the year.
As at 31 March 2010, options over 2,547,548 shares remained outstanding.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 128 Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Share awards continued Employee share schemes continued iii Senior Executive Equity Participation Plans SEEPP The SEEPP is not approved by HMRC.
The SEEPP is a long-term incentive plan where senior executives are invited to waive part of their potential cash bonus in return for rights over the number of shares that can be purchased with the foregone bonus at the market value of the Companys shares on the date of grant a basic award.
Participants may also be granted a provisional allocation over additional shares a matching award.
These shares are transferred to the executive on a sliding scale if they remain in the Companys employment as follows: no shares for up to three years: 40% following completion of three years, but less than four years: and the remaining 60% on the fourth anniversary of the date of grant.
No performance criteria are attached to these options.
UK SEEPP SEEPP options were outstanding over 545,527 2009 1,440,278 ordinary shares at an exercise price of a nominal sum of 100.0p 2009 100.0p.
Subject to the participants remaining in the employment of the Group during the vesting period, these options will normally be exercisable between December 2006 and May 2018.
A charge of 0.7m 2009 0.7m was made to the consolidated income statement in respect of the matching award in the year.
US SEEPP There were no SEEPP options outstanding 2009 163,780 over ordinary shares as at 31 March 2010 2009 31.0p exercise price per share.
All these options have vested and were exercisable before June 2009.
All these options were granted before 7 November 2002 and therefore no charges have been made to the consolidated income statement in respect of these options.
iv Unapproved Company Share Option Plan UCSOP The UCSOP is not approved by HMRC.
Options may be granted to any eligible employee within the Group.
No option may be granted to any individual at any time if, as a result, the aggregate number of shares issued or issuable to the individual under the plan would exceed 1,250,000.
Options vest in three equal instalments on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant, provided that, on the date of vesting, adjusted basic EPS growth exceeds growth in RPI by an average of 3% per annum over the preceding three years.
UCSOP options were outstanding over 3,983,400 2009 5,041,900 ordinary shares at exercise prices ranging between 166.2p and 611.0p per share.
Subject to the Companys performance during the vesting period, these options will normally be exercisable between May 2004 and June 2018.
A charge of 0.4m 2009 0.6m has been made to the consolidated income statement in the year in respect of options granted since 7 November 2002. v Bonus Share Matching Plan BSMP The BSMP is not approved by HMRC.
The BSMP is a long-term incentive plan where executive directors of the Company are required to waive 50% of their potential cash bonus in return for rights over the number of shares that can be purchased with the foregone bonus at the market value of the Companys shares on the date of grant a basic award.
Participants are also granted a provisional allocation over an equal amount of additional shares a matching award.
These shares are transferred to the director if they remain in the Companys employment for three years and the Group meets certain performance criteria currently growth in adjusted basic EPS in excess of growth in RPI by at least 9% over the three years from the date of grant.
The performance criteria apply to all grants of matching awards since 1 April 2004.
BSMP options were outstanding over 4,688,748 2009 9,680,299 ordinary shares.
These shares are exercisable between 2010 and 2017.
A promise to deliver a further 586,724 2009 867,930 ordinary shares has also been made by the Company.
A charge of 6.1m 2009 4.6m has been taken to the consolidated income statement in respect of these options in the year, which includes the impact of accelerating the vesting of the 2007 awards from May 2010 to March 2010. vi Traiana Plan The Traiana Plan was set up for the benefit of employees of Traiana who held options over Traiana shares prior to its acquisition by the Group in December 2007.
The terms and conditions remain the same but the employees now hold options over ICAP shares in the ratio of 0.307 ICAP shares for each Traiana share option previously held.
Share options vest over four years.
After the first 12 months one quarter of the share options vest and thereafter the options vest on a monthly basis so long as the employee remains with the Group.
Options may be exercised up to ten years after the date of grant.
A total of 470,406 options remain outstanding at 31 March 2010 2009 699,198.
A charge of 0.6m 2009 0.7m has been made to the consolidated income statement in respect of these options in the year.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 129 27 Share awards continued Employee share schemes continued vii Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP is not approved by HMRC.
The LTIP is a long-term incentive plan where senior executives of the Group are invited to waive 25% of their cash bonus in return for an award of the number of shares that can be purchased with the foregone bonus at the market value of the Companys shares on the date of grant a basic award.
Participants are also granted a provisional allocation over an amount of additional shares equal to 20% of the basic award a matching award.
The basic award shares are transferred to the employee in equal annual instalments over three years, with the matching award shares being transferred with the final basic award, so long as the employee remains in the Groups employment.
LTIP options were outstanding over 1,011,420 2009 913,020 ordinary shares.
These awards vest between 29 May 2010 and 28 May 2012.
A charge of 0.4m 2009 0.3m been made to the consolidated income statement in respect of these options in the year.
During the year the Group converted the shares to a post-tax basis for UK participants.
This had no impact on the consolidated income statement charge.
28 Reserves a Analysis of consolidated other reserves Capital Total Merger redemption Hedging Revaluation other reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves m m m m m As at 1 April 2009 28 1 47 18 Revaluation of intangible assets arising on consolidation note 17 45 45 Unrealised revaluation in the year note 24 a 24 24 Revaluation gains realised in the year note 24 a 20 20 As at 31 March 2010 28 1 3 45 71 As at 1 April 2008 28 1 21 4 12 Revaluation of available-for-sale investments note 18 1 1 Revaluation of hedging instruments in the year 67 67 Revaluation losses gains realised in the year 41 3 38 As at 31 March 2009 28 1 47 18 The merger reserve was created on the merger of Garban and Intercapital in 1999 and also includes goodwill arising before 1 January 1998 written off to reserves.
The capital redemption reserve was created as a result of shares cancelled in 1998 and 2005.
The revaluation reserve represents revaluations of available-for-sale investments.
The hedging reserve arises as a result of recognising the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments on the balance sheet.
The cost of shares held by employee share trusts of 36m 2009 37m and Treasury Shares 7m 2009 7m has been deducted from retained earnings.
The share-based payment reserve of 30m 2009 19m has been included in retained earnings.
b Company reserves The Company has retained earnings of 694m, all of which are considered to be distributable.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 130 Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Commitments a Finance lease commitments The Group has no commitments to future minimum lease payments under finance leases 2009 nil.
b Operating lease commitments At the end of the financial year, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating leases which fall due as follows: As at 31 March 2010 As at 31 March 2009 Other Other Property assets Total Property assets Total m m m m m m Within one year 18 1 19 25 1 26 Between one and five years 62 2 64 85 85 After five years 26 26 44 44 106 3 109 154 1 155 No amounts were expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases as at 31 March 2010 2009 nil.
Property operating leases commitments relates to the rental of premises for office space in the UK, US and Asia Pacific, in the locations that the Group operates.
c Capital commitments As at 31 March 2010, there was no capital expenditure contracted or provided for 2009 nil.
30 Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in the US, Germany and Indonesia.
In the case of the scheme operating in Germany, any future obligations that the Group may incur in respect of benefits accrued to members for past service are insured with local insurance companies.
The schemes in Germany and Indonesia are not significant in the context of the Group.
The US scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 July 1996 and no benefits have accrued to the members of the scheme in respect of their service after that date.
The scheme only provides for pension benefits and does not provide for postemployment medical benefits.
For the purposes of determining the Groups pension cost, the scheme is valued on an annual basis by qualified independent actuaries.
The most recent valuation was as at 1 January 2009 with an update as at 31 March 2010 in which the projected unit method was used.
The Group expects to contribute 0.8m to its defined benefit pension scheme in the year ending 31 March 2011.
The market value of the pension assets and liabilities of the scheme and the expected rate of return are as follows: Long-term Long-term rate of return rate of return expected Value as at expected Value as at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2010 2010 2009 2009 % m % m Equities 8.5 2 8.5 1 Bonds 6.0 5 6.0 6 Cash and other assets 1.0 1 1.0 1 Total market value of scheme assets 6.0 8 6.2 8 Present value of scheme liabilities 9 10 Deficit in the scheme 1 2 The valuation of the scheme is performed on an annual basis.
Given the insignificant size of the pension plan no further disclosure has been provided.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 131 31 Contingent liabilities Group a From time to time the Group is engaged in litigation in relation to a variety of matters.
It is not possible to quantify the extent of any potential liabilities, but there are none currently expected to have a material adverse impact on the Groups consolidated results or net assets.
b In the normal course of business, certain Group companies enter into guarantees and indemnities to cover trading arrangements and or the use of third party services or software.
Company The Company has provided a subordinated guarantee to a subsidiary company in respect of the $193m subordinated loan notes repayable in 2015 which has a fair value of nil as at 31 March 2010 2009 nil.
32 Related party transactions Group a IPGL IPGL is a company controlled by Michael Spencer, the Group Chief Executive Officer of ICAP plc.
A number of transactions take place between IPGL and its subsidiaries and the Group and these are detailed below.
IPGL During the year, IPGL charged the Group 102,290 2009 263,200 for the net amount of transactions between the two parties.
This amount includes 119,170 2009 86,220 paid by IPGL in respect of certain employees of the Group who provided services to IPGL and its subsidiary undertakings.
All transactions are carried out on an arms length basis.
Exotix Holdings Limited As part of the disposal of Exotix Holdings Limited to IPGL in 2007, the Group loaned employees of Exotix Limited Exotix, a subsidiary of Exotix Holdings Limited, 1.5m to enable them to purchase a shareholding.
Interest of 12,730 has been charged on these loans at a fair market rate during the year.
As at 31 March 2010 0.7m 2009 0.8m is still outstanding.
The Group also collected revenue of 17.2m 2009 11.6m on behalf of Exotix.
The Group recharged the company 122,758 2009 95,408 as compensation for overheads and IT support provided during the year.
As at 31 March 2010, there was a balance due to the company from the Group of 0.8m 2009 1.4m.
The Group holds 2.2m as collateral from Exotix on deposit.
The Group collected 60,591 interest on this balance on behalf of Exotix.
City Index Limited In June 2008 the Group agreed to provide FXSolutions, a subsidiary company of City Index Limited, with FX data from its EBS platform for $2m per annum.
During the year the Group has charged FXSolutions 1.3m 2009 0.6m for the provision of data.
As at 31 March 2010 there was no balance outstanding with the Group.
b Hartfield, Titus & Donnelly LLC The Group supplies and maintains electronic broking software on behalf of Hartfield, Titus & Donnelly LLC, a joint venture of the Group.
During the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group charged 302,801 2009 278,455 and the balance due from Hartfield, Titus & Donnelly LLC as at the year end was 78,612 2009 82,816. c TFS-ICAP Limited, TFS-ICAP LLC, TFS-ICAP Australia, TFS-ICAP Singapore and TFS-ICAP Japan The Group invoices and collects revenue on behalf of TFS-ICAP LLC.
During the year, the Group invoiced and collected 3.5m 2009 2.1m for which it did not receive a fee.
During the year the Group recharged the various joint ventures a fee as compensation for overheads and IT support costs as follows: TFS-ICAP Limited 224,297 2009 208,463 : TFS-ICAP Australia nil 2009 134,299 : TFS-ICAP LLC 50,269 2009 57,083 : TFS-ICAP Singapore 1.7m 2009 1.8m.
During 2008 09 ICAP Indonesia entered into a memorandum of understanding with TFS-ICAP Singapore to develop a new broking business with a profit loss share arrangement.
Indonesias share of the new ventures profits during the year was 9,679 2009 losses of 5,747.
As at 31 March 2010 the outstanding balance from all the joint ventures to the Group was 1.1m 2009 1.0m.
d BSN Capital Partners Limited The Group provides BSN Capital Partners Limited BSN, an associate undertaking, with office space and other facilities.
During the year, the Group charged BSN 141,766 2009 137,702 for these services.
The Group also has a preferred brokerage agreement with BSN and has recognised revenue of 8.8m 2009 5.1m during the year.
As at 31 March 2010 the outstanding balance was 7.8m 2009 5.1m.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 132 Notes to the financial statements continued 32 Related party transactions continued e CFETS-ICAP The Group provides CFETS-ICAP, a joint venture company based in China, with office space and facilities services.
During the year the Group charged the company 79,180 2009 101,459 for these services.
The Group also invoiced and collected revenue of 123,078 for CFETS in the year.
f Capital Shipbrokers Limited The Group collected revenue on behalf of Capital Shipbrokers Limited, an associate based in Hong Kong, of 1.5m 2009 1.1m.
The Group also recharged Capital Shipbrokers Limited 185,242 2009 119,750 for overheads.
The total outstanding balances due from the Group was 409,539 2009 1,283,582. g FCB Harlow-Butler Pty Limited The Group loaned some minority shareholders of FCB Harlow-Butler, a subsidiary company in South Africa, 629,558 in order to acquire 140,800 shares in the company from the Group.
Interest of 35,179 2009 109,713 was charged on the loan during the year.
As at 31 March 2010, the outstanding balance due on the loan was 286,309 2009 381,211. h ICAP-JLT Limited ICAP-JLT Limited ICAP-JLT is a joint venture company with Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc JLT.
William Nabarro, a non-executive director of ICAP plc and an executive director of JLT, is on the board of ICAP-JLT.
During the year the Group collected revenue of 13,736 2009 20,169 on behalf of ICAP-JLT, for which it did not receive a fee.
The Group also charged ICAP-JLT 140,646 2009 195,123 for IT and facility costs during the year.
As at 31 March 2010 ICAP-JLT owed the Group 979 2009 177,610. i ICAP Equities The Group loaned the minority shareholders of ICAP Equities, who are also employees, 870,000 2009 870,000 to acquire shares in the company.
No interest is chargeable on these loans and they will be repaid in 2011. j Ticonderoga During the year the Group invested in $19.5m 13m of 9% redeemable preference shares issued by Ticonderoga, a whollyowned subsidiary of Walker St Securities, an associate company.
The Group also lent Walker St Securities $2.7m 1.8m which is repayable on exercise of a call option over a further 55.1% of the share capital for the same amount and made further loans of $3.4m 2.1m for working capital purposes which are repayable on demand.
The notes are redeemable subject to certain conditions after one year.
As at 31 March 2010 $25.6m 17m was outstanding note 19. k Trading Cross Connects Holdings Limited During the year a new subsidiary of the Group, Trading Cross Connects Holdings Limited issued shares to the value of $4m 2.5m as consideration for a technology asset, for which an independent valuation was obtained, to a third party controlled by a member of the Groups GEMG.
l Amias Berman Holdings Pte Limited During the year, the Group lent Amias Berman, an associate, 7m to meet its working capital and regulatory requirements.
The loan, which is interest free, has a term of three years.
In addition, the Group provides Amias Berman with certain management services.
During the year to 31 March 2010 the Group charged 1m in respect of these services.
As at 31 March 2010, the amount due from Amias Berman is 8m.
m CLS Aggregation Services LLC CLS The Group recharged CLS, an associate company, $1.7m 1.1m as compensation for technical services during the year.
As at 31 March 2010 this amount remains outstanding.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 133 32 Related party transactions continued Company ICAP plc is the Groups ultimate parent company and is incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
During the year the Company entered into the following transactions with subsidiaries: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Management services expenses 0.5 0.2 Interest received from related parties 2.9 Interest paid to related parties 6.7 Amounts owed to the Company from subsidiaries are disclosed in note 19 and amounts owed by the Company to subsidiaries are disclosed in note 20.
In March 2009, the Company novated the Groups bank facilities to its immediate subsidiary ICAP Group Holdings plc and simplified its intra-Group lending and borrowing with its subsidiaries.
33 Cash flow a Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flow from operating activities Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Profit before tax from continuing operations 247 285 Loss before tax from discontinued operations note 4 66 4 Discontinued operations exceptional item note 6 41 Operating exceptional items 26 Share of operating profits of associates after tax 7 7 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising on consolidation 61 63 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising from development expenditure 23 18 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 22 23 Other amortisation and impairments 4 3 Share-based payments 10 8 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investments 4 Net finance expense 28 24 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 389 409 Decrease in trade and other receivables 26 55 Decrease in trade and other payables 53 8 Net receipts in respect of financial assets held at fair value 4 1 Cash generated by operations before exceptional items 366 455 Operating exceptional items paid 21 Cash generated by operations 345 455 Interest received 3 15 Interest paid 17 34 Tax paid 55 82 Net cash flow from operating activities 276 354 The movement in trade and other receivables and trade and other payables excludes the impact of the gross-up of matched principal trades as permitted by IAS7 Statement of cash flow.
The gross-up has no impact on the cash flow or net assets of the Group.
The cash flow movement in trade and other receivables includes the net movement on matched principal transactions and deposits for securities borrowed loaned.
The movement for the year ended 31 March 2010, after accounting for acquisitions, is an inflow of 20m 2009 inflow of 7m.
For details of the cash flow related to discontinued operations see note 4.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 134 Notes to the financial statements continued 33 Cash flow continued b Net cash and cash equivalents Net cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
Net cash and cash equivalents comprise the following amounts: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Cash and cash equivalents included in current assets 504 433 Short-term bank overdrafts 14 Net cash and cash equivalents 504 419 c Net debt Net debt comprises cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, bank overdrafts and other debt.
As at As at 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Gross debt note 22 652 545 Net cash and cash equivalents 504 419 Net debt 148 126 34 Client money At 31 March 2010 the Group held client money of 34m 2009 20m.
This amount, together with the corresponding liabilities to clients, is not included in the Groups balance sheet.
35 Events after the balance sheet date On 7 May 2010, the Group refinanced its existing 473m three-year unsecured revolving credit facility and $94m swingline with a new $880m revolving credit facility incorporating an up to $200m swingline facility, and which matures on 31 May 2013.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 135 36 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates a Investment in subsidiaries Company Cost and net book value Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Cost and net book value As at 1 April 1,955 988 Additions 67 2,379 Disposals 33 1,412 As at 31 March 1,989 1,955 During the year the Company, as part of an internal reorganisation, purchased Link Brokers Derivatives Inc from a subsidiary undertaking for cash of 33m.
Link Brokers Derivatives Inc was then sold to ICAP Group Holdings plc formerly ICAP Group Holdings Limited IGHP, a subsidiary company by way of a share issue by IGHP of 33,478,000 1 ordinary shares, which increased the value of the Companys investment by 33m.
During the prior year, the Company acquired ICAP Holdings Asia Pacific Limited, ICAP Holdings Limited and ICAP Securities Limited and then disposed of them, along with ICAP America Investments Limited, in exchange for shares in IGHP.
As all companies remain wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company, this is regarded as a transaction of no substance and the investment in IGHP is recognised at the same value as the companies disposed of.
The Companys immediate subsidiary companies are IGHP, Intercapital Limited and Garban Group Holdings Limited, all of which are incorporated in England and are 100% owned by the Company.
All of the Companys other subsidiaries are indirectly owned.
The Companys principal subsidiaries and their country of incorporation and the Groups ownership are listed below: % held Argentina ICAP Securities SA 100 Australia ICAP Australia Pty Limited 100 ICAP Brokers Pty Limited 100 Bahrain ICAP Middle East WLL 49 Brazil ICAP do Brasil Corretora fide Ttulose e Valores Mobilirios Ltda 100 Arkhe Distribuidora fide Ttulose e Valores Mobilirios SA 100 China ICAP Hong Kong Limited 100 ICAP Shipping Hong Kong Limited 75 Link Securities Hong Kong Limited 100 Colombia ICAP FX Colombia SA 89 ICAP Securities Colombia SA 95 Denmark ICAP Scandinavia Fondsmaeglerselskab A S 100 ICAP Shipping Denmark ApS 75 ICAP Middle East WLL is treated as a subsidiary since the Group exercises control over the company as the majority shareholder takes no part in the management of the company.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 136 Notes to the financial statements continued 36 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued % held England EBS Dealing Resources International Limited 100 Harlow London Limited 100 ICAP Electronic Broking Limited 100 ICAP Energy Limited 100 ICAP Europe Limited 100 ICAP Management Services Limited 100 ICAP Securities Limited 100 ICAP Shipping Derivatives Limited 75 ICAP Shipping Limited 75 ICAP Shipping Tanker Derivatives Limited 75 ICAP Shipping Tankers Limited 75 ICAP WCLK Limited 100 My Treasury Limited 75 The Link Asset and Securities Company Limited 100 Traiana Limited 100 ICAP America Investments Limited 100 ICAP Group Holdings plc 100 ICAP Holdings Limited 100 ICAP Holdings Asia Pacific Limited 100 ReMatch Limited 70 Trading Cross Connects UK Limited 64 TriOptima UK Limited 100 Germany ICAP Deutschland GmbH 100 ICAP Shipping Germany GmbH 75 Gibraltar ICAP Shipping Gibraltar Limited 75 India ICAP India Private Limited 51 Indonesia PT ICAP Indonesia 85 Israel Traiana Technologies Limited 100 Japan EBS Dealing Resources Japan Limited 100 ICAP Totan Securities Co Limited 60 TriOptima Japan KK 100 Korea ICAP Foreign Exchange Brokerage Limited 100 Mexico ICAP Referenciadora, S. A. fide C. V. formerly Escorfin SA 100 Netherlands ICAP Holdings Nederland BV 100 New Zealand ICAP New Zealand Limited 80 Norway ICAP Energy AS 100 Philippines ICAP Philippines Inc 100 Poland ICAP Poland Sp.
100 Singapore ICAP AP Singapore Pte Limited 100 ICAP Currency Options Pte Limited 100 ICAP Energy Pte Limited 100 ICAP Financial Products Pte Limited 100 ICAP Shipping Singapore Pte Limited 75 Reset Pte Limited 100 TriOptima Asia Pacific Pte Limited 100 South Africa FCB-Harlow Butler Pty Limited 51 Sweden TriOptima AB 100 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 137 36 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued % held United States EBS Dealing Resources Inc 100 First Brokers Securities LLC 100 ICAP Securities USA LLC 100 ICAP Capital Markets LLC 100 ICAP Corporates LLC 100 ICAP Electronic Broking LLC 100 ICAP Energy LLC 100 ICAP Futures LLC 100 ICAP Information Services Inc. 100 ICAP Ocean Tomo LLC 100 ICAP Services North America LLC 100 ICAP Shipping USA Inc formerly Skaarup Shipbrokers Inc 75 ICAP United, Inc 100 Intercapital Securities LLC 100 Link Brokers Derivatives Corporation 100 Moving Pictures Film and Television LLC 100 ReMatch Inc 70 Trading Cross Connects US LLC 64 Traiana Inc 100 TriOptima North America LLC 100 Wrightson ICAP LLC 100 The percentage held represents the percentage of issued ordinary share capital held all classes and also represents the voting rights of the Company.
The Group also owns 100% of the non-voting preference share capital of ICAP India Private Limited.
TriOptima, and each of its subsidiaries, and Arkhe each have a 31 December year end.
TriOptima is required to have a 31 December year end in order to determine any potential earn out payments required under the terms of the acquisition, and Arkhe is required to as part of local regulatory requirements.
All other subsidiaries have a 31 March year end.
All companies operate in their country of incorporation, except ICAP Securities USA LLC and ICAP Futures LLC which also operate in the UK, ICAP Energy AS which also operates in the Netherlands and in Spain and EBS Dealing Resources Limited which operates worldwide.
The principal activity of ICAP Information Services Inc and Wrightson ICAP LLC is the provision of financial information to third parties.
All other subsidiaries are involved in voice broking, electronic broking, post trade or activities related to broking activity.
b Joint ventures Group The Groups principal joint ventures and their country of incorporation are listed below: % held Principal activity Australia TFS-ICAP 25.0 Voice broking China Shanghai CFETS-ICAP International Money Broking Co Limited 33.0 Voice broking England TFS-ICAP Limited 22.5 Voice broking Germany TFS-ICAP Gmbh 12.5 Voice broking Japan TFS-ICAP 25.0 Voice broking Mexico SIF ICAP, S. A. fide CV 50.0 Voice broking BCIE ICAP Capital Markets S. A. fide C. V. 50.0 Voice broking Singapore TFS-ICAP 25.0 Voice broking United States Hartfield, Titus & Donnelly LLC 33.0 Voice broking TFS-ICAP LLC 22.5 Voice broking All joint ventures have a 31 December year end.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 138 Notes to the financial statements continued 36 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued b Joint ventures Group continued Summary financial information of joint ventures The Groups share of joint ventures assets and liabilities included in the balance sheet and their results included in the consolidated income statement is given below: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Assets 16 18 Liabilities 4 6 Net assets 12 12 Goodwill included in the Groups balance sheet 1 1 Net investment in joint ventures 13 13 Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Revenue 16 22 Administrative expenses 13 17 Profit before tax 3 5 Tax 1 1 Profit for the year 2 4 Attributable to Equity holders of the Company 2 4 Ydd c Investment in joint venture Company Cost and net book value Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Cost and net book value As at 1 April 1 Additions 1 As at 31 March 1 1 The Companys joint venture is CFETS-ICAP, a moneybroking company in China, of which the Company owns 33%.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 139 36 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued d Associates Group The Groups principal associates and their country of incorporation are listed below: % held Principal activity England BSN Capital Partners Limited 25.1 Voice broking China Capital Shipbrokers Limited 37.5 Voice broking India CTI Shipbrokers India Pvt Limited 22.5 Voice broking Japan Totan Capital Markets Co. Limited 28.1 Voice broking Malaysia Amanah Butler Malaysia Sdn Bhd 32.1 Voice broking Singapore Amias Berman Holdings Pte Limited 35.0 Voice broking Island Shipbrokers Pte Limited 16.9 Voice broking United States Blockcross Holdings LLC 20.0 Electronic trading CLS Aggregation Services LLC 49.0 Post trade risk Confirmhub LLC 25.0 Post trade risk Ticonderoga Securities LLC 19.88 Voice broking Island Shipbrokers Pte Limited is regarded as an associate of the Group, as a company controlled by the Group owns 22.5% of the equity and has significant influence on the accounting and operational policies of Island Shipbrokers Pte Limited.
The Group owns 19.88% of the equity of Amias Berman Holdings Pte Limited, but has contractual rights to 35% of the net profits.
The Group also owns 100% of the non-voting 9% redeemable preference share capital of Ticonderoga.
BSN Capital Partners Limited has a 31 December year end and all other associates have a 31 March year end.
