OTHER INFORMATION: GLOSSARY OF tERMS USEd Glossary of terms Used AGM Annual General Meeting ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process APB Auditing Practices Board ICSA Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ASIC Australian Securities and Investment Commission IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee Binary options A special form of spread bet with only two outcomes at expiry if a specific result is achieved, the bet IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU is closed at a level of 100.
If the result is not achieved, the bet closes at 0.
Binary bets therefore have IIC The Groups ICAAP and Individual Liquidity Adequacy Committee.
something in common with a traditional fixed-odds bet, except that the Group makes a continuous price LIBOR London inter-bank offered rate for the binary, between 0 and 100, allowing closure of the bet before the final settlement to crystallise any running profits or losses before expiry.
LTIP Long-term incentive plan CFTC US Commodity Futures Trading Commission MTF Multilateral trading facility Close-out monitor The Groups automated client liquidation system see also the Our Business Risks section in the Business OTC Over the counter means non-exchange traded financial instruments.
Review and note 34 Financial Instruments.
Pillar 1 Capital resources Minimum FSA specified rule-based capital requirements for credit, market and operational risk under FSAs Combined Code The Combined Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code sets out standards of good practice in requirement BIPRU Rulebook.
relation to board leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and relations with shareholders.
Pillar 3 Disclosures Public disclosure of capital adequacy to facilitate the wider markets role in ensuring regulated firms hold Provision A.
3.2 - at least half the board, excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive directors appropriate levels of capital - disclosed on the Groups corporate website www.
determined by the board to be independent.
Pip A percentage in point is generally, though not always, the fourth decimal place, i. e. 0.0001.
6 - Performance Management - The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual Risk appetite statement Approved by the Groups Board of Directors and sets out the level of risk that the Group is willing to take in evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
pursuit of its business objectives.
Company IG Group Holdings plc Spread bet A bet on the outcome of an event.
The spread is a range of outcomes, and the bet is on whether the Consolidated regulatory Tier 1, Tier 2, and Tier 3 capital are calculated under the GENPRU rules of the UKs Financial Services Authority.
outcome of the event will be above or below the spread.
The pay out is based on the accuracy of the bet.
capital resources SIP Share Incentive Plan Contract for Difference A CFD is an agreement to exchange the difference in value of a financial instrument at the time in which the Systemic risk The risk of collapse of an entire financial system, as opposed to specific risk associated with any one CFD contract is opened, and the time at which it is closed.
Examples on pages 123 to 126 illustrate buying and selling CFDs.
DMA Direct Market Access allows clients to send orders directly into the order book of a stock exchange.
Tiered-margining Four margin tiers ranging from 5% in Tier 1 small trade sizes to potentially 90% under Tier 4.
The margin FIX The Financial Information eXchange FIX Protocol is a series of messaging specifications for the electronic calculations are dependent on various factors including specific financial instrument volatility.
It has been developed through the collaboration of various TSR Total Shareholder Return financial institutions.
Variation margin Initial margin is collateral that the holder of a financial instrument has to deposit to cover some or all of the FSA The UKs Financial Services Authority credit risk of his counterparty.
The variation margin is not collateral, but a daily payment of running profits IAS International Accounting Standard and losses on the open position.
121 | IG Group Holdings plc | Annual Report 2010 122
