FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOtES tO thE FINANCIAL StAtEMENtS 34.
Financial risk management continued Notes to the Financial Statements It is the Groups policy that all financial institutional counterparties holding client money accounts must have minimum Standard and continued Poors shortand long-term ratings of A-2 and Arespectively.
This is also the target minimum ratings for the Groups bank accounts held with financial institutions but not subject to client money protection, although, in some operating jurisdictions, it can be problematic to find a banking counterparty satisfying these minimum ratings requirements.
This risk is mitigated by ensuring balances held with these 34.
Financial risk management continued counterparties are minimised.
c Non-trading interest rate risk The Group also actively manages the credit exposure to each of its broking counterparties by only keeping minimum required balances at each broker.
The Group also has interest rate risk relating to financial instruments not held at fair value through profit and loss.
These exposures are not hedged.
In addition, deposits are typically made on an overnight basis only which enables the Group to react immediately to any downgrading of credit rating or material widening of CDS spreads.
The interest rate risk profile of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at each year-end was as follows: b Client credit risk Within 1 year More than 5 years Total 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 The Group operates a real-time mark-to-market trading platform with client profits and losses being credited and debited automatically to Group 000 000 000 000 000 000 their account.
Client credit risk principally arises when a clients total funds deposited with the Group margin and free equity are insufficient to cover Fixed rate any trading losses incurred.
In addition, a small number of clients are granted credit limits to cover open losses and margin requirements Redeemable preference shares 8% - - 40 40 40 40 as described below.
Floating rate In particular, client credit risk can arise where there are significant, sudden movements in the market i. e. due to high general market Cash and cash equivalents 678,564 520,421 - - 678,564 520,421 volatility or specific volatility relating to an individual financial instrument the client has an open position in.
Trade receivables 206,243 183,085 - - 206,243 183,085 The principal types of client credit risk exposure are managed under the Groups Client Credit Management Policy and depend on the Trade payables 608,140 511,656 - - 608,140 511,656 type of account and any credit offered to clients as follows: 276,667 191,850 40 40 276,627 191,810 Limited risk accounts The Groups products are margin-traded.
If the market moves adversely by more than the clients initial margin deposit, the Group is Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
exposed to client credit risk.
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
Trade receivables and payables The Group mitigates this risk on some account and trade types by designating them as limited risk accounts.
This involves setting a level in include client and broker balances upon which interest is paid or received based upon market rates.
Cash and cash equivalents includes advance at which the deal will be closed-out, meaning a maximum client loss can be calculated at the opening of the trade.
client money equivalent to the amount included within trade payables.
The maximum loss is then the amount the client is required to deposit to open the trade, meaning the client can never lose more than Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis their initial margin deposit.
In further mitigation, a significant portion of the client base is managed on the Groups close-out monitor see A non-traded interest rate risk sensitivity analysis has been performed on net interest income on segregated client funds on the basis of a below and the client position will be closed-out if the initial margin is eroded by a specified percentage and the account is not re-funded 0.25% per annum fall and a 1.25% rise in interest rates at the beginning of the year.
The impact of such a fall in interest rates would reduce by the client.
net interest income on segregated client funds by approximately 0.5 million per annum.
The impact of such a rise in interest rates would increase net interest income on segregated client funds by approximately 5.0 million per annum.
Credit accounts Clients holding other types of accounts are permitted to deal in circumstances where they may be capable of suffering losses greater than ii Credit risk the funds they have deposited on their account, or in limited circumstances are allowed credit.
The Group has a formal credit policy which Credit risk is the risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial loss for the other party by failing to discharge an determines the financial and experience criteria which a client must satisfy before being given an account which exposes the Group to obligation.
The Groups credit risk is managed on a group-wide basis.
credit risk, including trading limits for each client and strict margining rules.
The Groups principal sources of credit risk are financial institution and client credit risk.
The Group can offer credit limits with the result any open loss can be paid subject to agreed credit terms.
These accounts typically only create a credit exposure when the clients loss exceeds their initial margin deposit.
A client has to deposit an initial margin when opening a Financial institution credit risk the trade so the Group is not exposed to credit risk if the client closes the trade before any loss exceeds the initial margin deposit.
Financial institution credit risk is managed in accordance with the Groups Counterparty Credit Management Policy.
In addition to clients waiving paying some or all of any open losses on a trade, the Group can also offer clients credit in respect of their Financial institutional counterparties are subject to a credit review when a new relationship is entered into and this is updated semiinitial margin.
This is a permanent waiving of initial margin requirements while the limit is active on the account subject to the credit limit.
annually or more frequently as required e. g. on change in the financial institutions corporate structure or a downgrading of its credit Credit limits are only granted following provision by the client of evidence of their available financial resources and credit accounts limits rating.
Proposed maximum exposure limits for these financial institutions are then reviewed and approved by the Risk Committee and are continuously reviewed by the Groups Credit Department.
exposures are reported against these limits on a daily basis.
The close-out monitor As part of its management of concentration risk, the Group is also committed to maintaining multiple brokers for each asset class.
Where possible, the Group negotiates for its funds to receive client money protection which can reduce credit exposure.
The Groups management of client credit risk is supported by a significantly automated liquidation process, the close-out monitor COM, whereby accounts which have broken the liquidation threshold are automatically identified.
This has resulted in significantly improved In respect of financial institution credit risk, the following key metrics are monitored on a daily basis: client liquidation times and reduced credit risk exposure for the Group.
balances held with financial institution counterparties are reported against concentration limits approved by the Groups Risk The majority of client positions are monitored on the Groups real-time COM system or are limited risk accounts with guaranteed stopCommittee losses.
As at 31 May 2010, 95.7% 2009: 93.7% of financial client accounts are subject to the automatic COM procedure or are limited risk any change in shortand long-term credit rating of financial institutions accounts.
any change in credit default swap CDS basis points spread specific to the financial institution 111 | IG Group Holdings plc | Annual Report 2010 112
