6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text:6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text 31 3 11 13:43 Page 15 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Water Treatment and Pollution Control In the water treatment and pollution control sector, the Company may invest in businesses that are principally, but not exclusively, exposed to the following areas: water treatment technologies involved in filtration, purification and separation water infrastructure including pumps, valves and actuators environmental sensing, testing and monitoring air pollution control technologies As at 31 December 2010, the Company had investments totalling in aggregate 114m by value invested in this sub-sector representing 26% of the Companys portfolio at that time.
iii Risk diversification The Company has the following maximum exposures in place in order to ensure that there is a reasonable diversification of risk in the Companys portfolio: a Not more than 10% of the Companys Net Asset Value will be invested in any one company at the time of investment.
b The Company will not make an investment if as a consequence of that investment individual holdings of 5% or more would in aggregate represent more than 40% of NAV.
The Company did not exceed either of the above maximum exposures during the year ended 31 December 2010.
The Company held investments in 84 companies as at 31 December 2010, the largest one being Regal Beloit which represented 2.9% of net assets at that time.
The Company does not have prescriptive limits on the maximum amounts that can be invested in the sub-sectors listed above.
The directors believe that the imposition of such limits could impact on efficient portfolio management.
To a limited extent, the Company invests in participatory notes providing economic exposure to underlying shares or securities when it is considered to be impracticable or not in the best interests of the Company to invest directly in those shares or securities.
Participatory notes are equity linked notes issued by a third party broker providing long only exposure to underlying shares or securities.
The Board has set a current maximum limit for investment into participatory notes at 5% of net assets, subject to a further limit of 2% of net assets per broker in both cases at time of investment.
iv Gearing At present the Company does not have any long-term or short-term borrowings, and during the year ended 31 December 2010 did not utilise any borrowings.
The Board has authorised the Manager to utilise short-term borrowings of up to 10% of net assets in order to provide liquidity for efficient portfolio management where the Manager sees fit.
While there is no current intention to utilise long-term borrowings, the Company retains the flexibility to do so in appropriate circumstances.
Any long-term borrowings and any borrowings in excess of 10% of net assets would require the separate authorisation of the Board.
The borrowings of the Company shall not at any time, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the Company, exceed an amount equal to one third of the aggregate of: 15 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 6661 Proof Event: 7 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
