6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text:6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text 31 3 11 13:43 Page 26 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED There were six full Board meetings during the year ended 31 December 2010.
Mr Bernays attended six meetings.
Mr Berry, Mr Brown and Mr Niven attended five meetings.
Dr Arnott attended four meetings.
In addition, there were three Board sub-committee meetings to deal with the formal approval of documents.
Mrs Le Blan and Mr Rickett, having been appointed since the year end, did not attend the above meetings.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Board decides upon the membership and chairmanship of its committees.
Audit Committee All the directors except the Chairman of the Company are members of this committee.
The Audit Committee meets formally at least twice a year for the purpose, amongst other things, of considering the appointment, independence and objectivity, and remuneration of the auditors and to review the annual accounts and half-yearly financial report.
Where non-audit services are provided by the auditors, full consideration of the financial and other implications on the independence of the auditors arising from any such engagement are considered before proceeding.
The Audit Committee has considered the non-audit work of the auditors this year and does not consider this compromises their independence.
Mr Niven is the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has formal written terms of reference and copies of these are available on request from the Company Secretary.
All members of the audit committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee has considered the need for an internal audit function and considers that this is not appropriate given the nature and circumstances of the Company.
There were two Audit Committee meetings during the year ended 31 December 2010.
Mr Niven and Mr Berry attended both meetings.
Dr Arnott and Mr Brown attended one meeting.
Remuneration and Management Engagement Committee All the directors are members of this committee.
The Remuneration and Management Engagement Committee meets formally on at least an annual basis for the purpose, amongst other things, of considering the appointment and remuneration of the investment manager and of suppliers of services to the Company, as well as the fees of non-executive directors.
Dr Arnott is the chairman of the Remuneration and Management Engagement Committee.
The Remuneration and Management Engagement Committee has formal terms of reference and copies of these are available on request from the Company Secretary.
A directors remuneration report is included on page 30 of these financial statements.
There was one meeting of the Remuneration and Management Engagement Committee during the year ended 31 December 2010.
The meeting was attended by all the committee members.
26 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 6661 Proof Event: 7 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
