6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text:6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text 31 3 11 13:43 Page 27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Nominations Committee All the directors are members of this committee.
The Nominations Committee has been established for the purpose of identifying and putting forward candidates for the office of director of the Company.
The Nominations Committee meets as and when required.
Mr Brown is chairman of the Nominations Committee.
The Nominations Committee considers job specifications and will assess whether candidates have the necessary skills and time available to devote to the job.
There were four meetings of the Nominations Committee during the year ended 31 December 2010.
Mr Bernays and Mr Berry attended four meetings.
Mr Niven attended three meetings.
Mr Brown attended two meetings and Dr Arnott attended one meeting.
Mrs Le Blan and Mr Rickett, having been appointed since the year end, did not attend the above meetings.
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL A formal annual performance appraisal process is performed on the Board, the committees, the individual directors and its main service providers.
A programme consisting of open and closed ended questions is used as the basis for the appraisals.
The results are reviewed by the Chairman and are then discussed with the Board so that any necessary action can be considered and undertaken.
A separate appraisal of the Chairman is carried out and the results are reviewed by Dr Arnott and reported back to the Chairman.
The results of the performance appraisal carried out in 2010 were positive and demonstrated that the directors showed the necessary commitment for the fulfilment of their duties.
Following the completion of the appraisal in 2010, the Board implemented a plan to refresh the Board to ensure that the composition of the Board going forward continues to be appropriate to meet with the Companys requirements.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Combined Code requires the Board to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls.
The Board recognises its ultimate responsibility for the Companys system of internal controls and for monitoring its effectiveness.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide only reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has undertaken a review of the aspects covered by the guidance and has identified risk management controls in the key areas of business objectives, accounting, compliance, operations and secretarial as being matters of particular importance upon which it requires reports.
The Board believes that the existing arrangements, set out below, represent an appropriate framework to meet the internal control requirements.
By these procedures the directors have kept under review the effectiveness of the internal control system throughout the year and up to the date of this report.
The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assets, the registration services and the accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration of the quality and cost of services offered, including the financial control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
Financial aspects of internal control The directors are responsible for the internal financial control systems of the Company and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These aim to ensure the maintenance of proper accounting records, 27 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 6661 Proof Event: 7 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
