6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text:6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text 31 3 11 13:43 Page 28 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED the reliability of the financial information upon which business decisions are made and which is used for publication and that the assets of the Company are safeguarded.
As stated above, the Board has contractually delegated to external agencies the services the Company requires, but they are fully informed of the internal control framework established by the Manager and the Administrator to provide reasonable assurance on the effectiveness of internal financial controls.
The key procedures include monthly production of management accounts and NAV calculations, monitoring of performance at regular board meetings, supervision by directors of the valuation of securities, segregation of the administrative function from that of securities and cash custody and of both from investment management, maintenance of appropriate insurance and adherence to physical and computer security procedures.
In addition, the Board keeps under its own direct control all material payments out of the Company other than for investment purposes.
Payment of management and administration fees is authorised only by directors after they have studied the financial data upon which those fees are based.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the accounts is on page 32 and a Statement of Going Concern is on page 22.
The Report of the Independent Auditors is on page 33.
Other aspects of internal control The Board holds at least four regular meetings each year, plus additional meetings as required.
Between these meetings there is regular contact with the Manager and the Administrator.
The Manager reports in writing to the Board on operational and compliance issues prior to each meeting, and otherwise as necessary.
The managers compliance officer issues his own report directly to the Audit Committee concerning the internal controls applicable to the Managers dealing, investment and general office procedures.
Directors receive and consider regular monthly reports from the Administrator, giving full details of all holdings in the portfolio and of all transactions and of all aspects of the financial position of the Company.
The Administrator reports separately in writing to the Board concerning risks and internal control matters within its purview, including internal financial control procedures and secretarial matters.
Additional ad hoc reports are received as required and directors have access at all times to the advice and services of the Corporate Company Secretary, which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
This contact with the Manager and the Administrator enables the Board to monitor the Companys progress towards its objectives and encompasses an analysis of the risks involved.
These matters are assessed on an ongoing basis through the year and again, formally, at year end.
SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS The Company welcomes all shareholders to attend the Annual General Meeting and seeks to provide twenty working days notice of that meeting.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the AGM and any item not of an entirely routine nature is explained in the Directors Report.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
The Manager has a programme of meetings with shareholders and reports back to the Board on its findings.
The Board also welcomes feedback from the shareholders directly to them.
28 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 6661 Proof Event: 7 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
