Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors responsibility statement Statement of Directors responsibility The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 1.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with regulations.
International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities financial position and profit or loss Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial of the Company and the undertakings included in the statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors are consolidation taken as a whole: and required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as 2.
The management report, which is incorporated into the adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company financial performance of the business and the position of the Company statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under Company law, and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are whole, together with a description of the principal risk and satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of uncertainties that they face.
the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that By order of the Board period.
In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable Jeremy Darroch Andrew Griffith information: Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 28 July 2010 28 July 2010 requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 55
