Governance Governance Governance 75 Governance 75 Directors responsibilities statement.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Responsibility statement and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: and regulations.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors of the Company and the undertakings included in the are required to prepare the Group financial statements in consolidation taken as a whole: and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the the management report, which is incorporated into the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Directors' report, includes a fair review of the development and Company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the performance of the business and the position of the Company EU.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair whole, together with a description of the principal risks and view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit uncertainties that they face.
or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 By order of the Board requires that Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with Christophe Evain Philip Keller Chief Executive Officer Finance Director the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular 4 June 2010 4 June 2010 transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
