Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms ii.
Associates and joint ventures Notes to the consolidated financial statements Associates are entities where the Group has significant influence, 1.
Accounting policies but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating British Sky Broadcasting Group plc the Company is a limited policies of the entity.
Joint ventures are those entities which are liability company incorporated in England and Wales, and domiciled jointly controlled by the Group under a contractual agreement with in the United Kingdom UK.
The consolidated financial another party or parties.
statements include the Company and its subsidiaries together, These consolidated financial statements include the Groups share the Group and its interests in associates and jointly-controlled of the total recognised gains and losses of associates and joint entities.
ventures using the equity method, from the date that significant a Statement of compliance influence or joint control commences to the date that it ceases, The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in based on present ownership interests and excluding the possible accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards exercise of potential voting rights, less any impairment losses see IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU, the Companies accounting policy j.
When the Groups interest in an associate or Act 2006 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard joint venture has been reduced to nil because the Groups share of IAS Regulations.
In addition, the Group also complied with IFRS losses exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, the as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Group only provides for additional losses to the extent that it has incurred legal or constructive obligations to fund such losses, or b Basis of preparation where the Group has made payments on behalf of the associate or The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a joint venture.
Where the disposal of an investment in an associate going concern basis as set out in the Directors Report and on an or joint venture is considered to be highly probable, the investment historical cost basis, except for the remeasurement to fair value of ceases to be equity accounted and, instead, is classified as held for financial instruments as described in the accounting policies below.
sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less The Group maintains a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the costs to sell.
Sunday nearest to 30 June in each year.
In fiscal year 2010, this d Goodwill date was 27 June 2010, this being a 52 week year fiscal year 2009: Business combinations that have occurred since 1 July 2004, the 28 June 2009, 52 week year.
For convenience purposes, the Group date of transition to IFRS the Transition Date, are accounted for continues to date its consolidated financial statements as at by applying the purchase method of accounting.
The Group has classified assets and liabilities as current method, goodwill is initially recognised on consolidation, when they are expected to be realised in, or intended for sale or representing the difference between the fair value cost of the consumption in, the normal operating cycle of the Group.
business combination and the fair value of the identifiable assets, At the beginning of the current year, the Group adopted the liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed.
following accounting pronouncements that are relevant to its In respect of business combinations that occurred prior to the operations, none of which had any significant impact on its results Transition Date, goodwill has been included at the amounts or financial position: recognised under the Groups UK Generally Accepted Accounting IFRS 8 Operating Segments Principles UK GAAP accounting policies on the Transition Date.
IAS 1 Revised 2007 Presentation of Financial Statements On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the IAS 23 Revised 2007 Borrowing Costs attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of IFRS 3 Revised 2008 Business Combinations profit or loss on disposal, except for goodwill written off to reserves IAS 27 Revised 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial under UK GAAP prior to the Transition Date, which is not reinstated Statements and is not included in determining any subsequent gain or loss on Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Vesting Conditions disposal.
and Cancellations Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses and is tested, Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures at least annually, for impairment, based on the recoverable Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments amounts of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill has Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and been allocated.
Any impairment identified is recognised Measurement Eligible Hedged Items immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently c Basis of consolidation reversed.
The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of associates i.
Subsidiaries and joint ventures is included in the carrying amount of the Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists investment in the associate or joint venture.
Goodwill is tested for when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern impairment in line with accounting policy j below.
the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain e Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company from the date PPE i. Intangible assets control of the subsidiary commences until the date that control Research expenditure is recognised in operating expense in the ceases.
Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses income statement as the expenditure is incurred.
Development or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are expenditure relating to the application of research knowledge to eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
plan or design new or substantially improved products for sale or ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 61 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued qualifying assets.
This is then applied to the expenditures on the Notes to the consolidated financial statements asset.
continued All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the 1.
Accounting policies continued period to which they relate.
use within the business is recognised as an intangible asset from f Derivative financial instruments and hedging the point at which it is probable that the Group has the intention activities and ability to generate future economic benefits from the The Group uses a number of derivative financial instruments to development expenditure, that the development is technically feasible and that the subsequent expenditure can be measured hedge its exposure to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange reliably.
Any other development expenditure is recognised in rates.
Derivatives are held at fair value from the date on which a derivative Other intangible assets, which are acquired by the Group contract is entered into.
Fair value is defined as the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between separately or through a business combination, are initially stated at knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
The cost or fair value, respectively, less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, other than those that are classified as held for fair value of derivative financial instruments is estimated with sale, which are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value reference to the contracted value and the appropriate market value prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Certain derivatives held less costs to sell.
by the Group which relate to highly probable forecast transactions Amortisation of an intangible asset begins when the asset is hedged items, which meet qualifying criteria under IAS 39 available for use, and is charged to the income statement through Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39, operating expense on a straight-line basis over the intangible are designated as cash flow hedges or fair value hedges, and are assets estimated useful life, principally being a period between subject to cash flow hedge accounting or fair value hedge three and ten years, unless the asset life is judged to be indefinite.
In certain circumstances, only the intrinsic If the useful life is indefinite or the asset is not yet available for use, value of a derivative has been designated as a cash flow hedge, no amortisation is charged and an impairment test is carried out at with the remaining fair value not designated as a cash flow hedge.
Other intangible assets are tested for impairment in Certain other derivatives held by the Group do not meet the line with accounting policy j below.
qualifying criteria for recognition for accounting purposes as ii.
Property, plant and equipment hedges, despite this being their economic function.
Changes in the Owned PPE is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and fair values of these derivatives are recognised immediately in the any impairment losses, see accounting policy j, other than those income statement.
The Group does not hold or issue derivatives for items that are classified as held for sale, which are stated at the speculative purposes.
lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
When an i. Derivatives that qualify for cash flow hedge accounting item of PPE comprises major components having different useful Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as economic lives, the components are accounted for as separate cash flow hedges cash flow hedging instruments are initially items of PPE.
recognised in the hedging reserve.
In circumstances in which the Assets held under finance leases, which confer rights and derivative used is a currency option, only changes in the intrinsic obligations similar to those attached to owned assets, are treated value of the option are designated under the cash flow hedging as PPE see accounting policy o. relationship, with all other movements being recorded immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in the hedging The cost of PPE, less estimated residual value, is depreciated in reserve are subsequently recognised in the income statement in operating expense on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful the periods in which the related hedged items are recognised in the life.
Land, and assets that are not yet available for use, are not income statement.
Principal useful economic lives used for this purpose are: At inception, the effectiveness of the Groups cash flow hedges is assessed through a comparison of the principal terms of the Freehold buildings 25 years hedging instrument and the underlying hedged item.
The ongoing Equipment, furniture and fixtures 3 to 15 years effectiveness of the Groups cash flow hedges is assessed using Assets under finance leases and Lesser of lease term and the the dollar-offset approach, with the expected cash flows of leasehold improvements useful economic life of the asset hedging instruments being compared to the expected cash flows of Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, the hedged items.
This assessment is used to demonstrate that construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets each hedge relationship is expected to be highly effective on that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for inception, has been highly effective in the period and is expected to their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets continue to be highly effective in future periods.
The measurement until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their of hedge ineffectiveness for the Groups hedging instruments is intended use or sale.
calculated using the hypothetical derivative method, with the fair To the extent that the financing for a qualifying asset is part of the values of the hedging instruments being compared to those of the Groups general borrowings, the interest cost to be capitalised is hypothetical derivative that would result in the designated cash calculated based upon the weighted average cost of borrowing to flow hedge achieving perfect hedge effectiveness.
The excess of the Group excluding the interest on any borrowings specific to any the cumulative change in the fair value of the actual hedging 62 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms instrument compared to that of the hypothetical derivative is known or reasonably determinable: b the programme material has deemed to be hedge ineffectiveness, which is recognised in the been accepted by the Group in accordance with the conditions of income statement.
the rights, and c the programme is available for its first showing.
Prior to being included in inventories, the programming rights are The Group uses a range of 80% to 125% for hedge effectiveness, in classified as television programme rights not yet available for accordance with IAS 39, and any relationship which has transmission and not recorded as inventories on the Groups effectiveness outside this range is deemed to be ineffective and balance sheet and are instead disclosed as contractual hedge accounting is suspended.
Payments made upon receipt of When a cash flow hedging instrument expires, is terminated or is commissioned and acquired programming, but in advance of the exercised, or if a hedge no longer meets the qualifying criteria for legal right to broadcast the programmes, are treated as hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in the prepayments.
hedging reserve at that time remains in the hedging reserve and is The cost of television programme inventories is recognised in the recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised operating expense line of the income statement, primarily as in the income statement, provided that the underlying transaction described below: is still expected to occur.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in Sports 100% of the cost is recognised in the income statement on the hedging reserve is immediately recognised in the income the first broadcast or, where the rights are for multiple seasons or statement and all future changes in the fair value of the cash flow competitions, such rights are principally recognised on a straighthedging instruments are immediately recognised in the income line basis across the seasons or competitions.
News 100% of the cost is recognised in the income statement on ii.
Derivatives that qualify for fair value hedge accounting first broadcast.
The Group has designated certain derivatives as fair value hedges Movies The cost is recognised in the income statement on a as defined under IAS 39.
Any changes in the fair value of the straight-line basis over the period of broadcast rights.
derivatives are recognised immediately in the income statement.
General entertainment The cost is recognised in the income The carrying values of the underlying hedged items are adjusted for statement based on the expected value of each planned the change in the fair value of the hedged risks, with the gains or broadcast.
losses recognised immediately in the income statement, offsetting the fair value movement on the derivative.
Where programme rights are surplus to the Groups requirements, and no gain is anticipated through a disposal of the rights, or where Prospective effectiveness is assessed quarterly, through a the programming will not be broadcast for any other reason, a comparison of the principal terms of the hedging instrument and write-down to the income statement is made.
Any reversals of the underlying hedged item, including the likelihood of default by inventory write-downs are recognised as reductions in operating the derivative counterparty.
The retrospective effectiveness of the expense.
Groups fair value hedges is calculated quarterly using the cumulative dollar-offset approach, with movements in the fair value ii.
Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment of the hedged item being compared to movements in the fair value Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment are valued at the of the hedging instrument.
The Group uses a range of 80% to 125% lower of cost and NRV, the latter of which reflects the value that the for hedge effectiveness and any relationship which has business expects to realise from the set-top boxes and related effectiveness outside this range is deemed to be ineffective and equipment in the hands of the customer, and are recognised hedge accounting is suspended.
through the operating expense line of the income statement.
Any subsidy is expensed on enablement, which is the process of iii.
Embedded derivatives activating the viewing card during installation, so as to enable a Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host viewer to view encrypted broadcast services, and effectively contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and represents the completion of the installation process for new characteristics are not closely related to those of the host subscribers.
The amount recognised in the income statement is contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with determined on a weighted average cost basis, in accordance with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Embedded derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value from the inception of the host contract.
Changes in fair value are iii.
Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale recognised within the income statement during the period in which Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale are valued at they arise.
The cost of raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale is recognised through the operating g Inventories expense line of the income statement on a first in first out i.
Acquired and commissioned television programme inventories FIFO basis.
Programme inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value NRV, including, where applicable, estimated h Financial assets and liabilities subscriber escalation payments, and net of the accumulated Financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value expense charged to the income statement to date.
plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any objective Programming rights are included as inventories when the legally evidence that any financial asset is impaired.
Financial assets and enforceable licence period commences and all of the following liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the conditions have been met: a the cost of each programme is ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 63 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued at amortised cost through the income statement less any Notes to the consolidated financial statements allowance for impairment losses.
continued v. Trade and other payables 1.
Accounting policies continued Trade and other payables are non-derivative financial liabilities and Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest financial asset or liability.
Financial assets are derecognised from method.
Trade and other payables with no stated interest rate are the balance sheet when the Groups contractual rights to the cash measured at the original invoice amount if the effect of discounting flows expire or the Group transfers substantially all the risks and is immaterial.
rewards of the financial asset.
Financial liabilities are derecognised vi.
Borrowings from the Groups balance sheet when the obligation specified in Borrowings are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Finance charges, including any premium payable on i. Available-for-sale investments settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for Equity investments intended to be held for an indefinite period of on an accruals basis in the income statement using the effective time are classified as available-for-sale investments.
They are interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the carried at fair value, where this can be reliably measured, with underlying instrument to which they relate, to the extent that they movements in fair value recognised directly in the available-for-sale are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Where the fair value cannot be reliably measured, the i Transponder rental prepayments investment is carried at cost.
Payments made in respect of future satellite broadcast capacity Any impairment losses in equity investments classified as availablehave been recorded as prepaid transponder costs.
These payments for-sale investments are recognised in the income statement and are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis are not reversible through the income statement, and are over the term of the agreement.
determined with reference to the closing market share price at the j Impairment balance sheet date.
Any subsequent increase in the fair value of the available-for-sale investment above the impaired value will be At each balance sheet date, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment recognised within the available-for-sale reserve.
of Assets, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of all its assets excluding inventories see accounting policy g, non-current assets Available-for-sale investments are included within non-current classified as held for sale, financial assets see accounting policy h assets unless the carrying value is expected to be recovered and deferred taxation see accounting policy p to determine principally through sale rather than continuing use, in which case whether there is any indication that any of those assets have they are included within current assets.
On disposal, the difference suffered an impairment loss.
between the carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received and any cumulative gain or loss that had previously been An impairment, other than an impairment of an investment in a joint venture or associate, is recognised in the income statement recognised directly in reserves is recognised in the income statement.
whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Trade and other receivables investment in a joint venture or associate is recognised within the Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with share of profit from joint ventures and associates.
The recoverable fixed or determinable payments and, where no stated interest rate amount is the greater of net selling price, defined as the fair value is applicable, are measured at the original invoice amount, if the less costs to sell, and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the effect of discounting is immaterial.
Where discounting is material, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost using using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market the effective interest method.
An allowance account is maintained assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the to reduce the carrying value of trade and other receivables for asset.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount impairment losses identified from objective evidence, with of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount movements in the allowance account, either from increased of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment impairment losses or reversals of impairment losses, being losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated recognised in the income statement.
first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to iii.
Cash and cash equivalents those units, and then to reduce the carrying amount of other Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank accounts, assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
deposits receivable on demand and deposits with maturity dates An impairment loss for an individual asset or cash generating unit of three months or less from the date of inception.
Bank overdrafts shall be reversed if there has been a change in estimates used to that are repayable on demand and which form an integral part of determine the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss the Groups cash management are also included as a component of was recognised and is only reversed to the extent that the assets cash and cash equivalents where offset conditions are met.
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would iv.
Short-term deposits have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no This includes short-term deposits and commercial paper which impairment loss had been recognised.
Impairment of goodwill is not have maturity dates of more than three months from inception.
These deposits are initially recognised at fair value, and then carried 64 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms based on their relative fair values.
The fair value of each individual k Provisions element is determined using vendor specific or third party Provisions are recognised when the Group has a probable, present evidence.
The amount of revenue the Group recognises for legal or constructive obligation to make a transfer of economic delivered elements is limited to the cash received.
benefits as a result of past events where a reliable estimate is available.
The amounts recognised represent the Groups best n Employee benefits estimate of the transfer of benefits that will be required to settle Wages, salaries, social security contributions, bonuses payable and the obligation as of the balance sheet date.
Provisions are non-monetary benefits for current employees are recognised in the discounted if the effect of the time value of money is material using income statement as the employees services are rendered.
a pre-tax market rate adjusted for risks specific to the liability.
The Group provides pensions to eligible employees through defined l ESOP reserve contribution schemes.
The amount charged to the income Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the Companys statement in the year represents the cost of contributions payable own equity shares, the cost of those shares, including any by the Group to the schemes in exchange for employee services attributable transaction costs, is presented within the ESOP rendered in that year.
The assets of the schemes are held reserve as a deduction in shareholders equity in the consolidated independently of the Group.
Termination benefits are recognised as a liability when, and only m Revenue recognition when, the Group has a demonstrable commitment to terminate the Revenue, which excludes value added tax and transactions employment of an employee or group of employees before the between Group companies, represents the gross inflow of normal retirement date or as the result of an offer to encourage economic benefit from Skys operating activities.
The Groups main voluntary redundancy.
sources of revenue are recognised as follows: The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments to certain employees which must be measured at fair Retail subscription revenue, including subscriptions for Sky TV, Sky Broadband and Sky Talk services, is recognised as the goods value and recognised as an expense in the income statement, with or services are provided, net of any discount given.
Pay-per-view a corresponding increase in equity in the case of equity-settled payments, and liabilities in the case of cash-settled awards.
The fair revenue is recognised when the event or movie is viewed.
values of equity-settled payments are measured at the dates of Wholesale revenue is recognised as the services are provided to grant using option-pricing models, taking into account the terms the cable retailers and is based on the number of subscribers and conditions upon which the awards are granted.
Cash-settled taking the Sky channels, as reported to the Group by the cable share-based payments are measured at their fair value as at the retailers, and the applicable rate card or contract.
The fair value is recognised over the period Advertising sales revenue is recognised when the advertising is during which employees become unconditionally entitled to the broadcast.
Revenue generated from airtime sales, where Sky acts awards, subject to the Groups estimate of the number of awards as an agent on behalf of third parties, is recognised on a net which will be forfeited, either due to employees leaving the Group commission basis.
prior to vesting or due to non-market based performance Easynet revenue is recognised when it is probable that the conditions not being met.
Where an award has market-based economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to performance conditions, the fair value of the award is adjusted for the Group and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
the probability of achieving these via the option pricing model.
The Revenue from separable installation and connection services is total amount recognised in the income statement as an expense is recognised when it is earned upon activation.
Revenue from the adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards that vest, except provision of leased lines and private circuits is recognised evenly where forfeiture is due to the failure to meet market-based over the period to which the charges relate.
Revenue from the performance measures.
In the event of a cancellation, whether by provision of Hosting is recognised evenly over the period to the Group or by a participating employee, the compensation which the charge relates except additional charges for power expense that would have been recognised over the remainder of based on usage.
the vesting period is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Installation, hardware and service revenue is recognised in the o Leases income statement when the goods and services are delivered.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the Other revenue principally includes income from Sky Active, Sky lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to Mobile TV, technical platform services, Sky Bet and third-party ownership of the asset to the lessee.
All other leases are classified set-top box sales.
With the exception of Sky Bet revenue, other as operating leases.
revenue is recognised, net of any discount given, when the When the Group is lessor, sublease income from operating leases is relevant goods or service are provided.
Sky Bet revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
recognised in accordance with IAS 39 and represents income in the period for betting and gaming activities, defined as amounts When the Group is lessee, assets held under finance leases are staked by customers less winnings paid out.
recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value on the date of acquisition, or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in or receivable.
When the Group sells a set-top box, installation or the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments service and a subscription in one bundled transaction, the total are apportioned between finance charges and reductions of the consideration from the arrangement is allocated to each element ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 65 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued issue during the year, excluding the weighted average number of Notes to the consolidated financial statements ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held in the Groups continued ESOP during the year to satisfy employee share awards.
Accounting policies continued Diluted earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the the year, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary remaining balance of the liability.
shares in issue during the year, excluding the weighted average number of ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held in the The lease expense arising from operating leases is charged to the Groups ESOP during the year to satisfy employee share awards, income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the plus the weighted average number of dilutive shares resulting from lease.
Benefits received and receivable as incentives to enter into share options where the inclusion of these would not be operating leases are recorded on a straight line basis over the lease antidilutive.
s Foreign currency translation p Taxation, including deferred taxation The Groups functional currency and presentational currency is The Groups liability for current tax is based on taxable profit for pounds sterling.
Trading activities denominated in foreign the year, and is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted currencies are recorded in pounds sterling at the applicable or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Monetary assets, liabilities and Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised using the balance commitments denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange at that date.
Nonthe carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of are translated to pounds sterling at the exchange rate prevailing at taxable profit.
Temporary differences arising from goodwill and the the date of the initial transaction.
Gains and losses from the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither retranslation of assets and liabilities are included net in profit for accounting profit nor taxable profit are not provided for.
Deferred the year, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests directly in equity.
in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the The assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The Income and expense items are translated at the applicable monthly amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner average exchange rates.
Any exchange differences arising are of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and classified as equity and transferred to other reserves.
liabilities, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
t Reportable segments The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires the segment information balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect an amount that is presented in the financial statements to be that which is used probable to be realised based on the weight of all available internally by the chief operating decision maker to evaluate the evidence.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that are expected performance of the business and decide how to allocate resources.
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is The Group has identified the Board of Directors as its chief realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
operating decision maker and as the internal reporting reviewed by Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except the Board focuses on the operations of the Group as a whole and where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in does not identify individual operating segments, the Group has only which case the deferred tax is also included within equity.
tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally u Accounting Standards, interpretations and enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax amendments to existing standards that are not yet liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same effective taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax The Group has not yet adopted certain new standards, assets and liabilities on a net basis.
amendments and interpretations to existing standards, which have q Distributions to equity shareholders been published but are only effective for our accounting periods Dividends are recognised in the retained earnings reserve in the beginning on or after 1 July 2010 or later periods.
These new year in which they are declared.
pronouncements are listed below: The cost of repurchasing the Groups own equity shares for Improvements to IFRSs 2009 various standards effective cancellation share buy-backs is recorded in retained earnings.
In 1 January 2010 addition, the nominal cost of shares repurchased is deducted from Amendments to IFRS 2 Share Based Payment Group Cashshare capital and a matching credit is recorded in the capital settled Share-based Payment Transactions effective 1 January redemption reserve.
2010 r Earnings per share Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Basic earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for the Classification of Rights Issues effective 1 February 2010 year, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in 66 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity recognition of the benefit on the basis of the likely resolution of Instruments effective 1 July 2010 the issue through negotiation and or litigation.
Improvements to IFRSs 2010 various standards effective 1 July The amounts recognised in the consolidated financial 2010 and 1 January 2011 statements in respect of each matter are derived from the Groups best estimation and judgment, as described above.
IAS 24 Revised 2009 Related Party Disclosures effective However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of 1 January 2010 these items means the eventual resolution could differ from the Amendment to IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit provision and in such event the Group would be required to make Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction an adjustment in a subsequent period which could have a effective 1 January 2011 material impact on the Groups profit and loss and or cash IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2013 position.
The Directors are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of iii Goodwill see note 12 these standards, amendments and interpretations in future Judgment is required in determining the fair value of identifiable periods.
assets, liabilities and contingent assets assumed in a business combination.
Calculating the fair values involves the use of v Critical accounting policies and the use of judgment significant estimates and assumptions, including expectations Certain accounting policies are considered to be critical to the Group.
An accounting policy is considered to be critical if its about future cash flows, discount rates and the lives of assets selection or application materially affects the Groups financial following purchase.
The Directors are required to use their judgment Judgment is also required in evaluating whether any impairment in order to select and apply the Groups critical accounting policies.
loss has arisen against the carrying amount of goodwill.
This may Below is a summary of the Groups critical accounting policies and require calculation of the recoverable amount of cash generating details of the key areas of judgment that are exercised in their units to which the goodwill is associated.
involve estimates of the net present value of future forecast cash flows and selecting an appropriate discount rate.
i Revenue see note 2 Alternatively, it may involve a calculation of the fair value less Selecting the appropriate timing for, and amount of, revenue to costs to sell of the applicable cash generating unit.
This may involve estimating the fair value of consideration before it is received.
When the Group iv Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment see sells a set-top box, installation or service and a subscription in notes 13 and 14 one bundled transaction, the total consideration from the The assessment of the useful economic lives of these assets arrangement is allocated to each element based on its relative requires judgment.
Depreciation and amortisation is charged to fair value.
The fair value of each individual element is determined the income statement based on the useful economic life using vendor specific or third party evidence.
This assessment requires estimation of the period over revenue the Group recognises for delivered elements is limited to which the Group will benefit from the assets.
Determining whether the carrying amount of these assets has Judgment is also required in evaluating the likelihood of any indication of impairment also requires judgment.
If an collection of customer debt after revenue has been recognised.
indication of impairment is identified, further judgment is This evaluation requires estimates to be made, including the level required to assess whether the carrying amount can be of provision to be made for amounts with uncertain recovery supported by the net present value of future cash flows forecast profiles.
Provisions are based on historical trends in the to be derived from the asset.
This forecast involves cash flow percentage of debts which are not recovered, or on more detailed projections and selecting the appropriate discount rate.
reviews of individually significant balances.
Assessing whether assets meet the required criteria for initial ii Taxation see note 9 capitalisation requires judgment.
This requires a determination The Groups tax charge is the sum of the total current and of whether the assets will result in future benefits to the Group.
The calculation of the Groups total tax In particular, internally generated intangible assets must be charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgment assessed during the development phase to identify whether the in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally Group has the ability and intention to complete the determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant development successfully.
tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
v Available-for-sale investments see note 16 Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make The key areas of judgment in respect of available-for-sale judgments and estimates in relation to tax audit issues and investments are the assessment of whether there is objective exposures.
Amounts accrued are based on managements evidence that a loss event has occurred after initial recognition interpretation of country-specific tax law and the likelihood of of an available-for-sale investment, and whether such a loss settlement.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable event has a reliably measurable impact on the estimated future that the tax positions will be sustained.
Once considered to be cash flows of the investment.
At each balance sheet date, probable, management reviews each material tax benefit to management considers whether there is objective evidence that assess whether a provision should be taken against full a loss event has occurred and whether it has had an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the available-for-sale ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 67 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued The alternative programming available to the Group for scheduling Notes to the consolidated financial statements within this period.
This consideration provides the most continued appropriate information in order to estimate how frequently individual programmes will be shown during the period in which 1.
Accounting policies continued the Group holds their Broadcast rights.
If a loss event has occurred, management would then consider whether an impairment loss has occurred and the The potential benefits associated with scheduling programming.
Certain high-profile or high-quality programming titles have additional value to the Group, as they attract new customers As at 30 June 2010, the Groups available-for-sale investments and encourage retention of existing customers.
As such, these included a material investment in ITV plc ITV which was programmes are able to retain more value throughout their impaired in previous periods.
The factors management broadcast runs than would be indicated when considering the considered in determining whether an impairment loss in ITV had expected viewing numbers alone.
occurred included observable data about the estimated future cash flows of ITV based on ITVs publicly available financial Expectations as to the number of viewers a programme is likely to reporting and announcements, publicly available information achieve for each individual broadcast over the contractual from financial commentators about ITV and the market in which broadcast period.
The number of viewers per broadcast directly it operates, the historical performance of ITVs share price, and influences advertising revenue for channels, although this the regulatory environment affecting ITV and the Group.
The ITV consideration is partly influenced by the Groups assessment of impairment losses accounted for have been determined with the potential impact of the publicly available information on its reference to ITVs closing equity share price at 27 March 2009, competitors scheduling intentions against planned broadcasts.
the last trading day of the Groups third fiscal quarter in fiscal 2009.
All subsequent increases in the fair value of the ITV investment above this impaired value have been recorded in the available-for-sale reserve see accounting policy h. vi Deferred tax see note 17 The key area of judgment in respect of deferred tax accounting is the assessment of the expected timing and manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities held at the balance sheet date.
In particular, assessment is required of whether it is probable that there will be suitable future taxable profits against which any deferred tax assets can be utilised.
vii Programming inventory see note 18 The Group has several main types of programming inventory: Sport, News, Movies and General entertainment, as detailed in accounting policy g i.
The cost of acquired Sport and News rights is recognised in the income statement on first broadcast or, where Sports rights are for multiple seasons or competitions, Sports rights are amortised on a straight-line basis across the season or competition.
Acquired movie rights are amortised on a straightline basis over the period of the transmission rights.
These treatments best represent our estimate of the benefits received from the acquired rights.
The key area of accounting for programming inventory requiring judgment is the assessment of the appropriate profile over which to amortise general entertainment programming.
This assessment requires the Group to form an expectation of the number of times a programme will be broadcast, and the relative value associated with each broadcast.
In order to perform this assessment, the Group considers the following factors: The period over which the programme is expected to be shown on the Groups channels.
This is usually based on a combination of the actual period specified in the contract for the programme rights, and the initial expectation of when repeat broadcasts will be scheduled.
68 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms 2.
Revenue 2010 2009 m m i Retail subscription 4,761 4,177 Wholesale subscription 238 206 Advertising 319 308 Easynet 203 202 Installation, hardware and service 174 235 Other 217 231 5,912 5,359 i Included within retail subscription revenue for the year ended 30 June 2009 is 36 million of additional revenue representing amounts invoiced in prior years, which did not meet revenue recognition criteria under IFRS until March 2009.
To provide a more relevant presentation, management has chosen to re-analyse the revenue categories from those previously reported.
Easynet revenue is shown separately and other revenue now principally includes income from Sky Bet, technical platform service revenue and our online portal.
Revenue arises from goods and services provided to the UK, with the exception of 483 million 2009: 443 million which arises from services provided to other countries.
Operating expense 2010 2009 m m Programming 1,902 1,750 Direct networks 518 373 Transmission, technology and fixed networks 374 353 Marketing 1,118 907 i ii Subscriber management and supply chain 655 662 i iii Administration 518 501 5,085 4,546 i Included within operating expense for the year ended 30 June 2010 is 32 million 2009: nil of expense relating to a restructuring exercise of which 22 million was recorded within subscriber management and supply chain costs and related to the impairment of assets associated with Picnic the potential launch of a subscription television service on DTT and 10 million was recorded within administration costs and related to restructuring costs which comprise principally redundancy payments.
ii Included within subscriber management and supply chain costs for the year ended 30 June 2010 is a 5 million credit 2009: nil related to the cancellation of accounts payable on settlement of the claim against EDS.
iii Included within administration costs for the year ended 30 June 2010 is 1 million 2009: 3 million of expense relating to legal costs incurred on the Groups claim against EDS.
To provide a more relevant presentation, management has chosen to analyse further the operating expense categories from those previously reported and has split Transmission, technology and network costs into Direct network costs costs directly related to the supply of broadband and telephony services to our consumer and business-to-business customers and Transmission, technology and fixed network costs.
Litigation settlement income and investment income on litigation settlement On 26 January 2010, the Technology and Construction Court TCC gave judgment in the litigation between Electronic Data Systems EDS and the Group.
The litigation related to EDS former role as a supplier to the Group as part of the Groups customer relationship management CRM project.
On 7 June 2010, EDS and the Group fully and finally settled the litigation between them and all related claims including for damages, costs and interest for a total amount of 318 million.
The Group has recognised 49 million of these payments in investment income on litigation settlement.
This allocation was based on the Groups estimate of the TCCs likely award of interest on its lost cash flows since the end of EDS role as a supplier to the Group in March 2002.
The balance of 269 million has been recognised in litigation settlement income representing settlement for costs and damages.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 69 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Investment income and finance costs 2010 2009 m m Investment income Cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits 330 Dividends receivable from available-for-sale investments 5 335 2010 2009 m m Finance costs Interest payable and similar charges 750 million 1 billion Revolving Credit Facilities RCF 11 3 Guaranteed Notes see note 22 116 186 Finance lease interest 8 7 135 196 Other finance income expense Remeasurement of borrowings and borrowings-related derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 16 21 Remeasurement of programming-related derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 1 3 Gain arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 36 46 Loss arising on adjustment for hedged item in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 38 46 13 24 122 220 Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year arose on the general borrowing pool and are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate of 5.3% to expenditure on such assets.
The amount capitalised in the current year amounted to less than 1 million.
Impairment of available-for-sale investment and profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment The Groups investment in ITV is carried at fair value.
The fair value of ITV is determined with reference to its equity share price at the balance sheet date.
An impairment in the carrying value was first recorded at 31 December 2007, due to the significant and prolonged decline in the equity share price.
In accordance with IFRS, the Group has continued to review that carrying value and recognised an impairment loss of 191 million in the year ended 30 June 2009.
This impairment loss was determined with reference to ITVs closing equity share price of 20.0 pence at 27 March 2009, the last trading day of the Groups third fiscal quarter in fiscal 2009.
In line with IFRS, all subsequent increases in the fair value of the ITV investment above this impaired value have been recorded in the available-for-sale reserve.
On 8 February 2010 the Group placed a shareholding of 10.4% in ITV in accordance with the final undertakings given by the Group to the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills relating to the Groups investment in ITV.
The placing by the Group of 404,362,095 ITV shares at 48.5p per share resulted in aggregate consideration of 196 million.
A profit of 115 million was realised on disposal being the excess of the consideration above the impaired value of the shares.
The Group continues to hold just under 7.5% of ITV.
At 25 June 2010, the last trading day of the Groups financial year, ITVs closing equity share price was 53.5 pence.
In accordance with IAS 39, the effect of any further decline in the value of the equity share price of ITV below the price of 20.0 pence as at 27 March 2009 will be recognised in the income statement at the relevant future balance sheet date.
70 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms 7.
Profit before taxation Profit before taxation is stated after charging crediting : 2010 2009 m m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 1,716 1,547 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 173 173 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 189 118 Rentals on operating leases and similar arrangements 47 47 Sub-lease rentals received on operating leases 1 1 Consolidated non-current assets outside the UK were 29 million 2009: 33 million.
Foreign exchange Foreign exchange losses recognised in the income statement during the year amounted to 3 million 2009: 10 million.
Audit fees An analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: 2010 2009 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 1 1 Fees payable to the Companys auditors for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1 1 Total audit fees 22 Other services pursuant to legislation 11 Total non-audit fees 11 Total auditor remuneration 33 Amounts paid to auditors for non audit-related fees include tax fees of 0.2 million 2009: 0.5 million, the interim review fee of 0.2 million 2009: 0.2 million and other audit related services of 0.2 million 2009: 0.3 million.
Employee benefits and key management compensation a Group employee benefits 2010 2009 m m Wages and salaries 631 572 Social security costs 76 60 i Costs of employee share option schemes 32 50 ii Contributions to the Groups pension schemes 27 27 766 709 i A 35 million charge relates to equity-settled share-based payments 2009: 48 million charge and a credit of 3 million relates to cash-settled share-based payments 2009: 2 million charge.
At 30 June 2010, the total expense relating to non-vested awards not yet recognised was 42 million which is expected to be recognised over a weighted average period of 1 year.
At 30 June 2010, 5 million was recognised as liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions 2009: 8 million.
ii The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes.
The pension charge for the year represents the cost of contributions payable by the Group to the schemes during the year.
The amount payable to the schemes by the Group at 30 June 2010 was 3 million 2009: 4 million.
The average monthly number of full-time equivalent persons including temporary employees employed by the Group during the year was as follows: 2010 2009 Number Number Channels and services 2,670 2,628 Customer service, sales and marketing 9,463 8,671 Transmission and technology 2,650 2,276 Management and administration 1,656 1,347 16,439 14,922 There are approximately 538 2009: 347 temporary staff included within the average number of full-time equivalent persons employed by the Group.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 71 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Employee benefits and key management compensation continued b Key management compensation see note 30d 2010 2009 m m Short-term employee benefits 54 Share-based payments 47 911 Post-employment benefits were less than 1 million 2009: less than 1 million.
Taxation a Taxation recognised in the income statement 2010 2009 m m Current tax expense Current year 305 191 Adjustment in respect of prior years 23 10 Total current tax charge 282 201 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 96 Adjustment in respect of prior years 4 10 Total deferred tax charge credit 13 4 Taxation 295 197 Taxation relates to a 288 million UK corporation tax charge 2009: 190 million and a 7 million Luxembourg corporation tax charge 2009: 7 million.
b Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 2010 2009 m m Deferred tax credit charge relating to share-based payments 9 3 Deferred tax charge relating to cash flow hedges 20 7 11 10 c Reconciliation of effective tax rate The tax expense for the year is lower 2009: higher than the expense that would have been charged using the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 28% applied to profit before tax.
The applicable enacted or substantially enacted rate of UK corporation tax for the year was 28% 2009: 28%.
The differences are explained below: 2010 2009 m m Profit before tax 1,173 456 Profit before tax multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% 2009: 28% 328 128 Effects of: i Non-deductible expense 18 65 Deferred tax write off following change in legislation 6 Tax exempt income 1 ii Tax exempt gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments 32 Over provision in respect of prior years 19 1 Taxation 295 197 i Included within non-deductible expense in the year ended 30 June 2009 is the tax effect of the impairment in available-for-sale investments relating to the Groups investment in ITV, see note 6. ii This is the tax effect of the gain on disposal of the available-for-sale investments relating to the Groups investment in ITV, see note 6.
72 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms 10.
Earnings per share The weighted average number of shares for the year was: 2010 2009 Millions of Millions of shares shares Ordinary shares 1,753 1,753 ESOP trust ordinary shares 10 13 Basic shares 1,743 1,740 Dilutive ordinary shares from share options 11 13 Diluted shares 1,754 1,753 The calculation of diluted earnings per share excludes 11 million share options 2009: 21 million, which could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future, but which have been excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as they are anti-dilutive in the year.
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit or loss for the year into the weighted average number of shares for the year.
In order to provide a measure of underlying performance, management have chosen to present an adjusted profit for the year which excludes items that may distort comparability.
Such items arise from events or transactions that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group but which management believes should be separately identified to help explain underlying performance.
2010 2009 m m Reconciliation from profit for the year to adjusted profit for the year Profit for the year 878 259 Remeasurement of all derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting and hedge ineffectiveness see note 5 13 24 Litigation settlement income relating to claim against EDS see note 4 269 Investment income on litigation settlement see note 4 49 Legal costs relating to claim against EDS see note 3 13 Cancellation of accounts payable on settlement of claim against EDS see note 3 5 Cost relating to restructuring exercise see note 3 32 Receipt on closure of joint venture see note 15 3 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment see note 6 115 Impairment of available-for-sale investment see note 6 191 Recognition of deferred revenue see note 2 36 Deferred tax write off following change in legislation 6 Tax effect of above items 85 4 Adjusted profit for the year 542 451 2010 2009 pence pence Earnings per share from profit for the year Basic 50.4 14.9 Diluted 50.1 14.8 Adjusted earnings per share from adjusted profit for the year Basic 31.1 25.9 Diluted 30.9 25.7 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 73 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Dividends 2010 2009 m m Dividends declared and paid during the year 2008 Final dividend paid: 9.625p per ordinary share 167 2009 Interim dividend paid: 7.50p per ordinary share 131 2009 Final dividend paid: 10.10p per ordinary share 176 2010 Interim dividend paid: 7.875p per ordinary share 138 314 298 The 2010 final dividend proposed is 11.525 pence per ordinary share being 201 million.
The dividend was not declared at the balance sheet date and is therefore not recognised as a liability as at 30 June 2010.
Dividends are paid between Group companies out of profits available for distribution subject to, inter alia, the provisions of the companies articles of association and the Companies Act 2006.
There are restrictions over the distribution of any profits which are not generated from external cash receipts as defined in Technical Release 1 09, issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
All dividends were paid out of profits available for distribution.
The ESOP has waived its rights to dividends.
Goodwill 2010 2009 m m Carrying value 852 852 Goodwill has principally arisen from the Groups purchases of the Sports Internet Group SIG, British Interactive Broadcasting BiB, Easynet Group Limited Easynet, 365 Media and Amstrad.
Impairment reviews were performed on these goodwill balances at 30 June 2010, which did not indicate impairment.
The amount of goodwill deductible for tax purposes is nil 2009: nil.
Goodwill, allocated by cash generating unit, is analysed as follows: 2010 2009 m m i Broadcast 673 673 ii Betting and gaming 149 149 iii Easynet Enterprise 30 30 852 852 Recoverable amounts for the cash generating units were calculated on the basis of value in use or recoverable amount as appropriate, using cash flows calculated for the next three or five years as forecast by management.
A long-term growth rate of 3% was applied in order to extrapolate cash flow projections beyond this period, based on future industry expectations.
The cash flows were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 10.4% 2009: 11.1%.
In determining the applicable discount rate, management applied judgment in respect of several factors, which included, inter alia: assessing the risk attached to future cash flows and making reference to the capital asset pricing model the CAPM.
Management gave consideration to the selection of appropriate inputs to the CAPM, which included the risk free rate, the equity risk premium and a measure of systematic risk.
Management also considers capital structure and an appropriate cost of debt in arriving at the discount rate.
i Broadcast The Broadcast unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of Easynets UK broadband network assets, Easynets UK residential business, 365 Medias content business, BiB and Amstrad.
The key assumptions on which forecast five year cash flows of the Broadcast unit were based include the number of gross DTH subscriber additions, the rate of DTH churn, the average revenue per subscriber, acquisition costs per subscriber and anticipated changes in the product mix and marketing mix of the broadcast business.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on the extrapolation of historical trends within the Group, and external information on expected future trends in the UK and Ireland entertainment and communications industry.
ii Betting and gaming The Betting and gaming unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of SIG and 365 Medias betting businesses.
The key assumptions, on which forecast five year cash flows were based, include the number of weekly unique users, the number of bets placed per user per week, the average stake per user per week and the average spend per active user per week.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on an extrapolation of historical trends within the unit, and external information on expected future trends in betting and gaming.
74 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms iii Easynet Enterprise The Easynet Enterprise unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of Easynets enterprise broadband business in the UK and other European countries.
The key assumptions on which forecast three year cash flows were based include the number of Easynet Enterprise customers, the average revenue per customer and the operating margin generated per customer.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on an extrapolation of historical trends within the unit, and external information on expected future trends in the enterprise broadband industry.
Intangible assets Internally generated Other Internally intangible intangible generated Software Other assets not yet assets not yet intangible development Software intangible available available assets external licences assets for use for use Total m m m m m m m Cost At 1 July 2008 91 237 89 41 4 102 564 Foreign exchange movements 1 1 Additions 34 20 19 35 13 39 160 Disposals 5 5 8 5 23 Transfers 4 50 1 55 At 30 June 2009 124 302 101 72 17 86 702 Foreign exchange movements 1 1 Additions 51 12 19 41 18 38 179 Disposals 6 10 22 38 Transfers 5 1 1 3 3 1 At 30 June 2010 174 305 120 113 32 99 843 Amortisation At 1 July 2008 35 160 54 12 261 Foreign exchange movements 1 1 Amortisation for the year 27 50 15 25 117 Impairments 1 1 Disposals 5 5 8 5 23 At 30 June 2009 58 205 62 32 357 Foreign exchange movements 1 1 Amortisation for the year 37 59 20 47 163 Impairments 3 1 22 26 Disposals 6 10 22 38 At 30 June 2010 92 255 81 79 507 Carrying amounts At 1 July 2008 56 77 35 29 4 102 303 At 30 June 2009 66 97 39 40 17 86 345 At 30 June 2010 82 50 39 34 32 99 336 The Groups internally generated intangible assets relate to software development associated with our customer management systems and set-top boxes.
The Groups other intangible assets mainly include copyright licences, customer lists and relationships, and patents and brands acquired in business combinations.
The estimated future amortisation charge on intangible assets with finite lives for each of the next five years is set out below.
It is likely that future amortisation will vary from the figures below as the estimate does not include the impact of any future investments, disposals or capital expenditure.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 m m m m m Estimated amortisation charge 112 90 58 31 21 For intangible assets acquired in business combinations the average amortisation period is 3 years 2009: 3 years.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 75 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Property, plant and equipment Land and Equipment, Assets not yet freehold Leasehold furniture and available for i ii buildings improvements fixtures use Total m m m m m Cost At 1 July 2008 108 72 914 58 1,152 Foreign exchange movements 5 5 Additions 25 5 85 136 251 Disposals 5 74 2 81 Transfers 1 1 At 30 June 2009 128 77 931 191 1,327 Foreign exchange movements 4 4 Additions 58 2 152 64 276 Disposals 6 69 3 78 Transfers 30 31 1 At 30 June 2010 186 73 1,040 221 1,520 Depreciation At 1 July 2008 20 22 388 430 Foreign exchange movements 3 3 Depreciation 4 7 154 165 Impairments 1 5 2 8 Disposals 3 73 2 78 At 30 June 2009 22 29 477 528 Foreign exchange movements 4 4 Depreciation 4 4 160 168 Impairments 2 3 5 Disposals 6 67 3 76 At 30 June 2010 26 27 568 621 Carrying amounts At 1 July 2008 88 50 526 58 722 At 30 June 2009 106 48 454 191 799 At 30 June 2010 160 46 472 221 899 i The amounts shown include assets held under finance leases with a net book value of 4 million 2009: 4 million.
The cost of these assets was 9 million 2009: 9 million and the accumulated depreciation was 5 million 2009: 5 million.
Depreciation charged during the year on such assets was nil 2009: 1 million.
ii Depreciation was not charged on 88 million of land 2009: 32 million.
76 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms 15.
Investments in joint ventures and associates A list of the Groups significant investments in joint ventures and associates, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
The movement in joint ventures and associates during the year was as follows: 2010 2009 m m Share of net assets: At 1 July 135 114 Movement in net assets Funding, net of repayments 13 Dividends received 30 20 i Share of profits 32 19 Exchange differences on translation of foreign joint ventures and associates 11 19 At 30 June 149 135 i Included within the share of profits for the year ended 30 June 2010 is 3 million 2009: nil related to an amount received on the closure of one of the Groups joint ventures.
The Groups share of any capital commitments and contingent liabilities of associates and joint ventures is shown in note 28. a Investments in joint ventures Representing the Groups share of each joint venture: 2010 2009 m m Non-current assets 64 Current assets 46 45 Current liabilities 24 22 Non-current liabilities 6 1 Shareholders equity 22 26 Revenue 70 68 Expense 51 55 Taxation 4 4 Share of profit from joint ventures 15 9 b Investments in associates Representing a 100% share of each associate: 2010 2009 m m Total assets 233 343 Total liabilities 60 52 Shareholders equity 173 291 i Revenue 214 172 i Profit 64 45 i Revenue and profit numbers are provided for the full year ended 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2009.
Available-for-sale investments 2010 2009 m m Investment in ITV at cost 946 946 Impairment of ITV investment 807 807 Unrealised gain on ITV investment 98 96 Realised gain on ITV investment 115 Part disposal of ITV investment 196 Fair value of ITV investment 156 235 Other investments at cost 26 26 182 261 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 77 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Available-for-sale investments continued On 17 November 2006, the Group acquired 696 million shares in ITV, at a price of 135 pence per share, representing 17.9% of the issued capital of ITV, for a total consideration of 946 million including fees and taxes.
The Groups investment in ITV is carried at fair value.
The fair value is determined with reference to its equity share price at the balance sheet date.
In accordance with IFRS, the Group has continued to review that carrying value and has recognised a cumulative impairment loss of 807 million in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009.
The disposal is exempt from tax under the provisions of the Substantial Shareholding Exemption SSE and as such the SSE provisions would prevent any capital loss arising for tax purposes.
The Group holds certain unquoted equity investments that are carried at cost less impairment.
The fair value of these investments is not considered to differ significantly from their carrying value.
Deferred tax i Recognised deferred tax liabilities assets Share-based Financial Fixed asset Short-term payments instrument temporary temporary temporary temporary differences Tax losses differences differences differences Total m m m m m m At 1 July 2008 9 7 8 18 1 23 Credit charge to income 7 5 2 7 3 4 Charge to equity 3 7 10 At 30 June 2009 2 2 6 22 11 17 Charge credit to income 6 2 6 1 13 Charge credit to equity 9 20 11 At 30 June 2010 8 6 25 30 7 Deferred tax assets have been recognised at 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2009 on the basis that, from managements current forecast of the Groups entities, it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits against which these assets can be utilised.
Tax losses are treated as unrecognised deferred tax assets if it is not considered probable that suitable future taxable profits will arise.
During the year, any tax losses suffered by UK entities have been relieved against taxable profits in other UK entities in the Group.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which they reverse.
The rate enacted or substantially enacted for the relevant periods of reversal is 28% in the year ended 30 June 2010 2009: 28%.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2010 2009 m m Deferred tax assets 31 30 Deferred tax liabilities 38 13 7 17 ii Unrecognised deferred tax assets 2010 2009 m m Tax losses arising from trading 338 341 Tax losses arising from capital disposals and provisions against investments 403 406 741 747 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the items above because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise the losses.
78 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms At 30 June 2010, a deferred tax asset of 38 million 2009: The ageing of the Groups net trade receivables which are past due 46 million principally arising from UK losses in the Group, has not but not impaired is as follows: been recognised.
These losses can only be offset against taxable 2010 2009 profits generated in the entities concerned.
There is currently m m insufficient evidence to support the recognition of a deferred tax Up to 30 days past due date 50 56 asset relating to these losses.
The UK trading losses can be carried 30 to 60 days past due date 6 11 forward indefinitely.
60 to 120 days past due date 5 7 More than 120 days past due date 4 5 At 30 June 2010, a deferred tax asset of 300 million 2009: 65 79 295 million has not been recognised in respect of overseas trading losses on the basis that it is not probable that these The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other temporary differences will be utilised.
These losses include receivables approximates to their fair values.
The Group is exposed 249 million 2009: 249 million with respect to the Groups to credit risk on its trade and other receivables, however the Group German holding companys former investment in KirchPayTV and does not have any significant concentrations of credit risk, with 51 million 2009: 46 million with respect to the Groups holdings exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and in Easynets overseas subsidiaries.
In respect of the unrecognised customers.
Trade receivables principally comprise amounts deferred tax of 300 million on the overseas trading losses, outstanding from subscribers, advertisers and other customers.
282 million relates to losses that can be carried forward Provisions for doubtful debts indefinitely and 18 million relates to losses that have expiry dates between 2011 and 2029.
2010 2009 m m At 30 June 2010, a deferred tax asset of 391 million 2009: Balance at beginning of year 118 84 391 million has not been recognised in respect of potential Amounts utilised 5 7 capital losses related to the Groups former investment in Income statement charge 40 41 KirchPayTV, on the basis that utilisation of these temporary Balance at end of year 153 118 differences is not probable.
At 30 June 2010, the Group also has capital losses with a tax value estimated to be in excess of 20.
Trade and other payables 12 million 2009: 15 million including impairment of a football 2010 2009 club and other investments, which have not been recognised as a m m deferred tax asset, on the basis that it is not probable that they will i Trade payables 419 407 be utilised.
The capital losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates 4 3 18.
Inventories Amounts owed to other related parties 70 69 2010 2009 VAT 105 93 m m Accruals 609 586 Television programme rights 255 274 Deferred income 251 269 Set-top boxes and related equipment 73 97 Other 68 65 Other inventories 15 15 1,526 1,492 343 386 i Included within trade payables are 155 million 2009: 143 million of US dollardenominated programme payables.
At 30 June 2010, 91% 2009: 91% of the television programme The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other rights and 100% 2009: 100% of other inventories is expected to payables approximates to their fair values.
Trade payables be recognised in the income statement within 12 months.
principally comprise amounts outstanding for programming 19.
Trade and other receivables purchases and ongoing costs.
2010 2009 m m Gross trade receivables 303 297 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 153 118 Net trade receivables 150 179 Amounts receivable from joint ventures and associates 6 5 Amounts receivable from other related parties 3 Prepayments 197 221 Accrued income 135 116 VAT 18 52 Other 29 40 Current trade and other receivables 538 613 Non-current prepayments 18 21 Total trade and other receivables 556 634 Included within current trade and other receivables is nil 2009: 54 million which is due in more than one year.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 79 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Provisions At Provided Utilised At Provided Utilised At 1 July during during 1 July during during 30 June 2008 the year the year 2009 the year the year 2010 m m m m m m m Current liabilities i Restructuring provision 6 6 7 7 ii Acquired and acquisition related provisions 14 8 8 14 4 3 15 iii Other provisions 71 4 4 2 1 5 27 9 18 18 13 4 27 Non-current liabilities ii Acquired and acquisition related provisions 8 7 1 1 iv Other provisions 14 3 11 2 2 11 22 10 12 2 3 11 i During the year ended 30 June 2010 the Group provided 7 million for the expected costs of a restructuring exercise undertaken.
ii During the year ended 30 June 2008 the Group took control of Amstrad.
Following the purchase method of accounting the Group has recognised at fair value both the provisions and contingent liabilities acquired in the business combination.
The provisions recognised primarily relate to warranties and repair costs, the settlement of outstanding customer claims and the fair value of a contingent liability in respect of importation duty on set-top boxes, see note 28. iii Included in other provisions are amounts provided for onerous contracts for property leases, maintenance and legal disputes.
The timing of the cash flows for onerous property leases and maintenance are dependent on the terms of the remaining leases.
The timing of the cash flows for legal disputes cannot be reasonably determined.
iv Included within non-current other provisions are onerous property leases.
The timing of the cash flows are dependent on the terms of the leases, but are expected to continue up to August 2016.
Borrowings and non-current other payables 2010 2009 m m Current borrowings i 100 million of 7.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in July 2009 100 i US$600 million of 8.200% Guaranteed Notes repayable in July 2009 363 ii Loan Notes 2 465 Non-current borrowings i US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 533 477 i 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 407 404 i US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 511 459 i US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 413 367 i 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 295 295 i US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 229 206 iii Obligations under finance leases 70 71 2,458 2,279 Non-current other payables Amounts owed to other related parties 35 Accruals 11 18 Deferred income 38 43 52 66 80 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms i Guaranteed Notes At 30 June 2010, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by the Company: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating Fixed Floating m m m US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 387 290 97 6.829% 6m LIBOR 1.892% US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 389 389 N A 6m LIBOR 5.542% 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 300 300 6.000% N A 1,076 590 486 At 30 June 2010, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by BSkyB Finance UK plc: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating Fixed Floating m m m US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 428 171 257 5.427% 6m LIBOR 0.698% 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 400 350 50 5.750% 6m LIBOR 0.229% US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 200 200 5.826% N A 1,028 721 307 At 30 June 2009, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by the Company: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating Fixed Floating m m m 100 million of 7.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in July 2009 100 100 7.750% N A US$600 million of 8.200% Guaranteed Notes repayable in July 2009 380 254 126 7.653% 6m LIBOR 2.829% US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 387 290 97 6.829% 6m LIBOR 1.892% US$600 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 401 401 N A 6m LIBOR 5.542% 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 300 300 6.000% N A 1,568 944 624 At 30 June 2009, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by BSkyB Finance UK plc: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating Fixed Floating m m m US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 428 171 257 5.427% 6m LIBOR 0.698% 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 400 330 70 5.750% 6m LIBOR 0.070% US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 200 200 5.826% N A 1,028 701 327 Note: Hedged value is the final redemption value including any hedging The Group has a Euro Medium Term Note Programme the Programme, which provides the Group with a standardised documentation platform for senior debt issuance in the Eurobond markets.
The 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes maturing in May 2027 has been issued under the Programme, which allows a maximum potential issuance of 1 billion.
During the year, the Company and the Group repaid the US$600 million and 100 million of Guaranteed Notes repayable in July 2009 and repurchased for cancellation $17.2 million of the US$600 million 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018.
The combined repayments resulted in a net cash outflow of 495 million, including cash flows on related hedges and a premium of 3 million paid on the redemption of the November 2018 Guaranteed Notes.
ii Loan Notes During fiscal 2009, the Group repaid 35 million of Loan Notes and the remaining 2 million were redeemed in October 2009.
Under the terms of the Loan Notes the Group paid a semi-annual coupon, based on floating six month LIBOR minus 1.000%.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 81 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Borrowings and non-current other payables continued iii Finance leases The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: 2010 2009 m m Within one year 88 Between one and two years 88 Between two and three years 88 Between three and four years 88 Between four and five years 88 After five years 169 176 209 216 Future finance charges on finance lease liabilities 139 145 Present value of finance lease liabilities 70 71 The main obligations under finance leases are in relation to: a finance arrangements in connection with the broadband network infrastructure.
During the year, repayments of 7 million 2009: 7 million were made against the lease.
A proportion of these payments have been allocated against the capital outstanding.
The lease bears interest at a rate of 11.1% and expires in November 2039. b finance arrangements in connection with the contact centre in Dunfermline.
During the year, repayments of 1 million 2009: 1 million were made against the lease.
A proportion of these payments have been allocated against the capital amount outstanding.
The lease bears interest at a rate of 8.5% and expires in September 2020. iv Revolving Credit Facility The Group has a 750 million Revolving Credit Facility RCF with a maturity date of 30 July 2013, syndicated across 11 counterparty banks, each with a minimum credit rating of A.
At 30 June 2010, the RCF was undrawn 2009: undrawn.
At 30 June 2009, the Group had a 1 billion RCF due to expire on 30 July 2010 and had secured the above 750 million forward-starting RCF, to start on the same date.
In June 2010, the Group amended the forward-starting facility, to extend the maturity by one year and to reduce the cost.
At the same time, the Group brought forward the start date of the new facility and cancelled its existing facility.
There are two opportunities to request an extension of one further year to the RCF, at the lenders discretion, with a potential final maturity of July 2015.
The Group is subject to two financial covenants under the RCF, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest cover ratio, which are tested at the end of each six monthly period.
The key financial covenants are the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA as defined in the loan agreements and EBITDA to Net Interest Payable as defined in the loan agreements.
Net Debt to EBITDA must be no more then 3.00:1 and EBITDA to Net interest payable must be at least 3.50:1.
The Group was in compliance with these covenants for all periods presented.
v Guarantees The following guarantees are in place relating to the Groups borrowings: a British Sky Broadcasting Limited, Sky Subscribers Services Limited, BSkyB Investments Limited, BSkyB Finance UK plc, BSkyB Publications Limited and Sky In-Home Service Limited SHS have given joint and several guarantees in relation to the Companys 750 million RCF and the outstanding Guaranteed Notes issued by the Company b the Company, British Sky Broadcasting Limited, Sky Subscribers Services Limited, BSkyB Investments Limited, SHS and BSkyB Publications Limited have given joint and several guarantees in relation to the outstanding Guaranteed Notes issued by BSkyB Finance UK plc.
82 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms 23.
Derivatives and other financial instruments Set out below are the derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
2010 2009 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps and swaptions 98 865 54 800 Cash flow hedges Cross-currency swaps 181 661 104 661 17 381 Forward exchange contracts 77 1,006 8 221 37 512 43 514 Currency options collars 11 61 61 11 105 2 105 Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship Interest rate swaps and swaptions 1 83 10 Forward exchange contracts 1 10 2 49 4 34 2 61 Cross-currency swaps 70 353 16 390 28 353 63 401 Embedded derivatives 1 4 1 11 Total 438 2,956 27 725 239 2,548 128 1,483 The maturity of the derivative financial instruments is as follows: 2010 2009 Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m In one year or less 50 10 33 42 Between one and two years 24 1 13 16 Between two and five years 15 7 7 In more than five years 349 16 186 63 Total 438 27 239 128 Included within the fair value of forward exchange contracts are a number of US dollar and Euro-denominated forward exchange contracts which the Group has taken out with counterparty banks on behalf of two of its joint ventures: AETN UK and Chelsea Digital Media Limited.
On the same dates as these forward contracts were entered into, the Group entered into equal and opposite forward contracts with the respective joint ventures.
As a result, the net fair value of these contracts to the Group was nil 2009: nil.
The gross sterling notional value of these forward contracts at 30 June 2010 was 1 million 2009: 3 million.
The fair value of the Groups debt-related derivative portfolio at 30 June 2010 was a 333 million net asset 2009: net asset of 107 million with net notional principal amounts totalling 1,803 million 2009: 1,866 million.
This comprised: net assets of 181 million designated as cash flow hedges 2009: net assets of 87 million, net assets of 98 million designated as fair value hedges 2009: net assets of 54 million and net assets of 54 million not designated in a formal hedge relationship 2009: net liabilities of 34 million.
At 30 June 2010, the carrying value of financial assets that were, upon initial recognition, designated as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss was nil 2009: nil.
Hedge accounting classification and impact The Group has designated its interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of interest rate risk, representing 37% 2009: 30% of the Groups debt portfolio.
Movements in the fair value of the hedged items are taken to the income statement and are offset by movements in the fair value of the hedging instruments, to the extent that hedge accounting is achieved.
The Group has designated its fixed rate cross-currency swaps as cash flow hedges of 35% 2009: 41% of the Groups debt portfolio.
As such, the effective portion of the gain or loss on these contracts is reported as a separate component of the hedging reserve, and is then reclassified to the income statement in the same periods that the forecast transactions affect the income statement.
During the current year, gains of 78 million were removed from the hedging reserve and credited to finance costs in the income statement to offset the currency translation movements in the underlying hedged debt 2009: gains of 350 million.
The Group designates its forward foreign exchange contracts and the intrinsic element of options collars as cash flow hedges of forecast foreign currency sales and purchases.
Gains or losses are released from the hedging reserve and recycled to the income statement in the same period as the hedged item is recognised.
If forecast transactions are no longer expected to occur, any amounts included in the hedging reserve related to that forecast transaction would be recognised directly in the income statement.
During the current year gains of 13 million were removed from the hedging reserve and credited to operating expense in the income statement 2009: gains of 16 million.
Losses of 2 million were removed from the hedging reserve and debited against revenue in the income statement 2009: losses of 15 million.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 83 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Derivatives and other financial instruments continued Swaption agreements have not been designated as hedging instruments for hedge accounting purposes and, as such, movements in their value are recorded directly in the income statement.
The last of the Groups non-hedge accounted swaption agreements expired in July 2009.
Hedge effectiveness testing is performed, comparing the actual movement in the hedging items with the movement in the valuation of the hypothetically perfect hedge of the underlying risk at inception.
This testing is performed quarterly using the dollar-offset approach and any ineffectiveness is recognised directly in the income statement.
2 million of ineffectiveness was recognised in the income statement during the current year 2009: less than 1 million.
A hedge relationship is deemed to be effective if the ratio of changes in valuation of the underlying hedged item and the hedging instrument is within the range of 80% to 125%.
Any relationship which has a ratio outside this range is deemed to be ineffective, at which point hedge accounting is suspended.
During the year ended 30 June 2010, there were no instances in which the hedge relationship was not highly effective 2009: no instances.
Financial instruments a Carrying value and fair value The accounting classification of each class of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities, together with their fair values, is as follows: Held to Derivatives Derivatives in maturity Availabledeemed held hedging Loans and Total carrying Total fair investments for-sale for trading relationships receivables Other liabilities value value m m m m m m m m At 30 June 2010 Quoted bond debt - 2,388 2,388 2,619 Derivative financial instruments 52 359 411 411 Trade and other payables 1,174 1,174 1,174 Provisions 16 16 16 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 70 70 70 Available-for-sale investments 182 182 182 Trade and other receivables 334 334 334 Short-term deposits 400 400 400 Cash and cash equivalents 148 501 649 649 At 30 June 2009 Quoted bond debt 2,671 2,671 2,692 Derivative financial instruments 33 144 111 111 Loan notes 2 2 2 Trade and other payables 1,147 1,147 1,147 Provisions 15 15 15 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 71 71 71 Available-for-sale investments 261 261 261 Trade and other receivables 392 392 392 Short-term deposits 90 90 90 Cash and cash equivalents 165 646 811 811 The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and which are traded on active liquid markets is determined with reference to quoted market prices: The fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments is determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments: Foreign currency forward option contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts: Interest rate and cross currency swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates: and 84 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms The fair value of obligations under finance leases and other borrowings is estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present value.
The fair value of short-term deposits and cash and cash equivalents is equivalent to carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
The differences between carrying values and fair values reflect unrealised gains or losses inherent in the financial instruments, based on valuations as at 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2009.
The volatile nature of the markets means that values at any subsequent date could be significantly different from the values reported above.
The Group also has holdings in joint ventures and associates, which are accounted for using the equity method see note 15.
As these investments are unlisted, their fair value cannot be measured reliably.
Cash and cash equivalents classified as held to maturity investments comprise money market deposits which have maturity dates of less than three months from inception.
Money market deposits which have maturity greater than three months from inception are classified as short-term deposits.
Cash and cash equivalents classified as loans and receivables mainly comprise investments in AAA rated money market funds which can be withdrawn without notice.
b Fair value hierarchy The following table categorises the Groups financial instruments which are held at fair value into 1 of 3 levels to reflect the degree to which observable inputs are used in determining their fair values: Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 m m m m At 30 June 2010 Assets measured at fair value Available-for-sale financial instruments ITV investment 156 156 Other investments at cost 26 26 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 98 98 Cross currency swaps 251 251 Forward foreign exchange and option contracts 89 89 Total 620 156 438 26 Liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Cross currency swaps 16 16 Forward foreign exchange and option contracts 10 10 Embedded derivatives 1 1 Total 27 27 Level 1 Fair values measured using quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
There has been no movement in the Groups Level 3 investments in the year ended 30 June 2010.
Financial risk management Group Treasury activity The Groups Treasury function is responsible for raising finance for the Groups operations, together with associated liquidity management and management of foreign exchange, interest rate and credit risks.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of policies and guidelines authorised and reviewed by both the Audit Committee and the Board, which receive regular updates of Treasury activity.
Derivative instruments are transacted for risk management purposes only.
It is the Groups policy that all hedging is to cover known risks and no speculative trading is undertaken.
Regular and frequent reporting to management is required for all transactions and exposures, and the internal control environment is subject to periodic review by the Groups internal audit team.
The Groups principal market risks are exposures to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates, which arise both from the Groups sources of finance and its operations.
Following evaluation of those market risks, the Group selectively enters into derivative financial instruments to manage these exposures.
The principal instruments currently used are interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate risks, and cross currency swaps, forward exchange contracts and currency options collars to hedge transactional and translational currency exposures.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 85 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued values or cash flows is calculated without considering Notes to the consolidated financial statements interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating continued actions that would be taken by the Group.
The changes in valuations are estimates of the impact of changes in market variables and are 24.
Financial risk management continued not a prediction of future events or anticipated gains or losses.
Interest rate risk The Group has financial exposures to both UK and US interest Foreign exchange risk rates, arising primarily from the Groups long-term bonds and other A combination of cross-currency and interest rate swap borrowings.
The Groups hedging policy requires that between 50% arrangements is used to convert the Groups US dollar and 75% of borrowings are held at fixed rates.
This is achieved by denominated debt and associated interest rate obligations to issuing fixed rate bonds and then using interest rate swaps to pounds sterling, at fixed exchange rates.
At 30 June 2010, the split adjust the balance between fixed and floating rate debt.
The of the Groups aggregate borrowings into their core currencies was Groups bank debt is at floating rates, and, when drawn, means that US dollar 68% and pounds sterling 32% 2009: US dollar 68% and the mix of fixed and floating rate debt fluctuates and is therefore pounds sterling 32%.
At 30 June 2010, 100% of the Groups longmanaged to ensure compliance with the Groups hedging policy.
At term borrowings, after the impact of derivatives, are denominated 30 June 2010, 62% of borrowings were held at fixed rates after in pounds sterling.
The Groups revenues and operating expenses are substantially The Group uses derivatives to convert all of its US dollardenominated in pounds sterling.
A small proportion of operating denominated debt and associated interest rate obligations to expenses is denominated in US dollars, while a small proportion of pounds sterling see section on foreign exchange risk for further revenues is denominated in Euros.
In the current year, detail.
At 30 June 2010, the Group had no net US dollar approximately 11% of operating expenses 537 million was denominated interest rate exposure on its borrowings.
denominated in US dollars 2009: approximately 9% 418 million and 8% of revenues was denominated in Euros 2009: 8%.
The Group designates its interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of interest rate risk.
Movements in the fair value of the hedged The US dollar expense relates mainly to the Groups programming exposure are taken to the income statement and are offset by contracts with US suppliers, together with US dollar-denominated movements in the fair value of the hedging instruments, which are set-top box costs.
The Euro revenues are primarily due to also taken to the income statement.
Any hedge ineffectiveness is subscribers located in Ireland.
The Groups exposure to Eurorecognised directly in the income statement.
In the year ended denominated revenue is offset to a certain extent by Euro- 30 June 2010, this amounted to 2 million 2009: less than denominated costs, related mainly to certain transponder costs: 1 million.
the net position being a Euro surplus 2009: surplus.
At 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2009, the Groups annual finance The Group hedges currency exposures on US dollar and Eurocosts would be unaffected by any change to the Groups credit denominated highly probable cash flows by using forward exchange rating in either direction.
contracts and options collars purchased up to five years ahead of the cash flow.
Interest rate sensitivity The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the It is the Groups policy that all anticipated foreign currency exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative exposures are substantially hedged in advance of the year in which financial instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate they occur.
liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability At 30 June 2010, the Group had purchased forward foreign outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the exchange contracts and collars representing up to: whole year.
Approximately 85% of US dollar-denominated costs falling due For each one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates at within one year 2009: 90%, and approximately 80% of US 30 June 2010, and if all other variables were held constant: dollar-denominated costs falling due within five years 2009: The Groups profit for the year ended 30 June 2010 would approximately 80% which are hedged via increase or decrease by 3 million 2009: profit for the year Outstanding commitments to purchase, in aggregate, would increase or decrease by 1 million.
The increase is driven US$1,310 million 2009: US$1,060 million at an average rate by an increase in the cash balance held.
Other equity reserves would decrease or increase by 17 million In addition, collars were held relating to the purchase of a total 2009: decrease or increase by 8 million.
A one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates represents a Approximately 80% of Euro-denominated exposures relating to large but realistic movement which can easily be multiplied to give revenues and transponder costs falling due within 18 months sensitivities at different interest rates.
2009: approximately 75%, which are hedged via The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should Outstanding commitments to sell, in aggregate, 440 million be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily 2009: 437 million at an average rate of 1.13 2009: 1.14. indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because the Groups actual exposure to market rates changes as the Groups Outstanding commitments to purchase, in aggregate, portfolio of debt, cash and foreign currency contracts changes.
In 58 million 2009: 83 million at an average rate of 1.13 addition, the effect of a change in a particular market variable on fair 2009: 1.15.
86 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the Euro would have No forward foreign exchange contracts or collars have been the effect of reducing profit by 4 million 2009: reducing profit by purchased falling due beyond five years 2009: none.
None of this amount relates to non-cash movements in The Group designates the following as cash flow hedges for hedge the valuation of derivatives.
The same weakening would have an accounting purposes: adverse impact on other equity of 115 million 2009: adverse Forward foreign exchange contracts.
The intrinsic value of collars all other fair value movements are The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should recognised directly in the income statement.
be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily Cross-currency swaps where interest on both legs is at a fixed indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because interest rate.
the Groups actual exposure to market rates is constantly changing as the Groups portfolio of debt, foreign currency and equity As such, the effective portion of the gain or loss on these contracts contracts changes.
In addition, the effect of a change in a particular is reported as a component of the hedging reserve, outside the market variable on fair values or cash flows is calculated without income statement, and is then reclassified to the income considering interrelationships between the various market rates or statement in the same periods that the forecast transactions mitigating actions that would be taken by the Group.
The changes affect the income statement.
Ineffectiveness of less than 1 million in valuations are estimates of the impact of changes in market was recognised in the income statement during the year 2009: variables and are not a prediction of future events or anticipated less than 1 million.
During the year, the Group exchanged 19 million for US dollars 2009: 76 milion and 63 million was exchanged for pounds Hedge accounting sterling 2009: 33 million on currency spot markets.
The interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk sections above outline the Groups policies regarding use of derivative products.
A combination of US dollar denominated interest rate and Further detail on valuations and the impact of hedge accounting USD GBP cross currency swaps is used to convert fixed dollar during the year are provided in note 23. denominated debt to floating sterling denominated debt.
The interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges.
The Credit risk associated cross currency swaps are not designated as hedging The Group is exposed to counterparty default risk amounting to instruments for hedge accounting purposes and, as such, invested cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits, and movements in their value are recorded directly in the income the positive fair value of derivative financial assets held.
This risk is deemed to be low.
Counterparty risk forms a central part Foreign exchange sensitivity of the Groups Treasury policy, which is monitored and reported on The following analysis details the Groups sensitivity to movements regularly.
The Group manages credit risk by diversifying its in pounds sterling against those currencies in which it has exposures across a wide number of counterparties, such that the significant transactions.
The sensitivity analysis includes only maximum exposure to any individual counterparty was less than outstanding foreign currency denominated financial instruments 11% of the total asset value of instruments at the end of the year.
and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 25% change in Treasury policies ensure that all transactions are only effected with foreign currency rates, representing the maximum currency strong relationship banks and, at the date of signing, each carried a exposure reported to management on a regular basis.
minimum credit rating of Aor equivalent from Moodys and Standard and Poors.
A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have the effect of reducing profit by 36 million 2009: reducing The amount recognised in the income statement in respect of profit by 36 million, of which losses of 35 million relate to noncredit risk for derivatives deemed held for trading is nil 2009: nil.
cash movements in the valuation of derivatives 2009: losses of Credit risk in our residential customer base is mitigated by billing 35 million.
The same strengthening would have an adverse and collecting in advance for digital television subscriptions for over impact on other equity of 198 million 2009: adverse impact of 97% of our residential customer base.
exposure to credit risk on trade receivables is the carrying amounts A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would as disclosed in note 19. increase profit by 59 million 2009: increasing profit by Liquidity risk 61 million of which gains of 58 million relate to non-cash Our principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operations, movements in the valuation of derivatives 2009: gains of 58 combined with access to a 750 million RCF, which expires in July million.
The same weakening in pounds sterling would have a 2013, with the right to request two further one year extensions.
At beneficial impact on other equity of 330 million 2009: beneficial 30 June 2010, this facility was undrawn 30 June 2009: undrawn.
To ensure continuity of funding, the Groups policy is to ensure that A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the Euro would available funding matures over a period of years.
At 30 June 2010, have the effect of increasing profit by 2 million 2009: increasing 76% 2009: 61% of the Groups total available funding including profit by 2 million.
None of this amount relates to non-cash available undrawn amounts on our RCF was due to mature in more movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same strengthening than five years.
would have a beneficial impact on other equity of 69 million 2009: beneficial impact of 65 million.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 87 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Financial risk management continued Full details of the Groups borrowings and undrawn facilities are shown in note 22, other than current trade and other payables, shown in note 20, and provisions, shown in note 21.
The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities, net-settled derivative financial instruments and gross settled financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings, based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
These amounts may not reconcile to the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet for borrowings, derivative financial instruments and trade and other payables.
Between Between More Less than 12 one and two two and five than five months years years years m m m m At 30 June 2010 Non derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 111 111 333 2,172 Bonds GBP 41 41 123 985 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 8 8 24 169 Trade and other payables 1,123 45 6 Provisions 63 6 2 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 35 35 105 79 Financial liabilities Gross settled derivatives Outflow 73 73 218 1,805 Inflow 78 78 235 2,100 Between Between More Less than 12 one and two two and five than five months years years years m m m m At 30 June 2009 Non derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 481 102 305 2,086 Bonds GBP 149 41 123 1,026 Loan Notes 2 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 8 8 24 176 Trade and other payables 1,090 41 5 Provisions 45 8 4 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 25 25 76 85 Financial liabilities Gross settled derivatives Outflow 470 74 223 1,892 Inflow 457 78 235 2,008 88 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms The share awards outstanding can be summarised as follows: Capital Risk Management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to endeavour to 2010 2009 ensure that the Group has the ability to access capital markets Number of Number of ordinary ordinary when necessary and to optimise liquidity and operating flexibility shares shares through the arrangement of new debt, while seeking to minimise i the cost of capital.
The Group monitors its liquidity requirements Executive Share Option Scheme options 13,803,846 17,945,045 ii Sharesave Scheme options 6,175,446 6,514,732 regularly and is satisfied that it has access to sufficient liquidity iii All Employee awards 1,383,400 1,595,700 and operating flexibility to meet its capital requirements.
iv Management LTIP awards 13,447,526 19,276,851 The Group manages its short and long-term capital structure by v LTIP awards 5,869,560 9,293,347 vi seeking to maintain leverage ratios consistent with a long-term Management Co-Investment LTIP awards 599,181 vii Co-Investment LTIP awards 728,736 investment grade credit rating BBBor better from Standard & 42,007,695 54,625,675 Poors and Baa3 or better from Moodys.
The Groups current ratings are BBB Standard & Poors and Baa1 Moodys.
The i Executive Share Option Scheme options leverage ratios assessed by these rating agencies are those of Net Included within the total Executive Share Option Scheme options Debt: EBITDA and Gross Debt: EBITDA.
Net Debt is defined as total outstanding at 30 June 2010 are 12,260,846 options 2009: borrowings, including the cash flows arising under operating leases 16,293,545 which may be exercised in the final year before their and transponder prepayments, less cash and cash equivalents, lapsing date, regardless of meeting performance criteria, provided excluding derivatives.
Gross Debt does not reduce total borrowings that the employee remains in employment with the Group.
Where by the inclusion of cash and cash equivalents.
performance criteria are achieved, the options may be exercised The Group is also required to maintain a Net Debt: EBITDA ratio immediately following the end of the vesting period being the term below 3.00:1 under the terms of its RCF.
The RCF definition of Net over which the performance criteria are required to be met.
The Debt does not require the inclusion of future operating lease or remaining 1,543,000 options 2009: 1,651,500 have no transponder cash flows.
performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the employee remains in employment with the Group.
The contractual At 30 June 2010, the Net Debt: EBITDA ratio as defined by the life of all Executive Share Option Scheme options is ten years.
Grants under the Executive Share Option Scheme were made on an 25.
Share capital annual basis to selected employees, with the exercise price of 2010 2009 options being equal to the Companys share price on the date of m m grant.
For those options with performance conditions, growth in Authorised ordinary shares of 50p EPS had to exceed growth in the Retail Prices Index plus 3% per 3,000,000,000 2009: 3,000,000,000 1,500 1,500 annum in order for awards to vest.
Options vest on an accelerated Allotted, called-up and fully paid basis over a period of up to four years from the date of grant.
1,752,842,599 2009: 1,752,842,599 876 876 ii Sharesave Scheme options The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carries equal All Sharesave Scheme options outstanding at 30 June 2010 and voting rights and no contractual right to receive payment.
30 June 2009 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the employee remains in employment with Share option and contingent share award schemes the Group.
Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme must be The Company operates various equity-settled share option exercised within six months of the relevant award vesting date.
schemes the Schemes for certain employees.
The Sharesave Scheme is open to all employees.
Options are The number of newly issued shares which may be allocated under normally exercisable after either three, five or seven years from the the Schemes on any day shall not, when aggregated with the date of grant.
The price at which options are offered is not less number of newly issued shares which have been allocated in the than 80% of the middle-market price on the dealing day previous ten years under the Schemes and any other employee immediately preceding the date of invitation.
It is the policy of the share scheme adopted by the Company, exceed such number as Group to make an invitation to employees to participate in the represents five percent of the ordinary share capital of the scheme following the announcement of the end of year results.
Company in issue immediately prior to that day.
In determining this iii All Employee awards limit no account shall be taken of any newly issued shares where the right to acquire the newly issued shares was released, lapsed, The All Employee awards outstanding at 30 June 2010 and 30 June cancelled or otherwise became incapable of exercise.
Options and 2009 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the employee remains in employment with the awards which will be satisfied by ESOP shares do not fall within Group.
Awards granted under the All Employee award will be these headroom limits.
exercised upon the award vesting date.
The Company granted the All Employee award to all permanent employees on 5 February 2009.
Awards under the scheme are granted in the form of a nil-priced option, and are satisfied using market-purchased shares.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 89 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Share capital continued iv Management LTIP awards All Management LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2009 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the Management LTIP must be exercised within one year of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company grants awards to selected employees under the Management LTIP.
Awards under this scheme mirror the LTIP, with the same performance conditions.
Awards exercised under the Management LTIP can only be satisfied by the issue of marketpurchased shares.
v LTIP awards All LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2009 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the LTIP must be exercised within one year of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company operates the LTIP for Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
The awards vest in full or in part dependent on the satisfaction of specified performance targets.
30% of the award vests dependent on TSR performance over a three year performance period, relative to the constituents of the FTSE 100 at the time of grant, and the remaining 70% vests dependent on performance against operational targets.
vi Management Co-Investment LTIP awards All Management Co-Investment LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2010 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the Management Co-Investment LTIP must be exercised within one year of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company grants awards to selected employees under the Management Co-Investment LTIP.
Awards under this scheme mirror the Co-Investment LTIP, with the same performance conditions.
vii Co-Investment LTIP awards All Co-Investment LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2010 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the Co-Investment LTIP must be exercised within one year of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company operates the Co-Investment LTIP award for Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
Employees who participate in the plan are granted a conditional award of shares based on the amount they have invested in the Group.
The investment will be matched up to a maximum of 1.5 shares for every share invested, subject to a three-year EPS performance condition.
For the purposes of the disclosure below, the Sharesave Scheme options and All Employee awards Sharesave Schemes and the Management LTIP, LTIP, Co-Investment Management LTIP and CoInvestment LTIP awards Senior Management Schemes have been aggregated.
For those exercised under the Executive Scheme it was 6.27 2009: nil, for those exercised under the Sharesave Schemes it was 5.53 2009: 4.67, and for those exercised under the Senior Management Schemes it was 5.37 2009: 4.53.
The middle-market closing price of the Companys shares at 25 June 2010 was 7.01 26 June 2009: 4.50.
The following table summarises information about share awards outstanding at 30 June 2010: Executive Scheme Sharesave Schemes Senior Management Schemes Total Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average remaining remaining remaining remaining contractual life contractual life contractual life contractual life Range of exercise prices Number Years Number Years Number Years Number Years 0.00 1.00 1,383,400 1.6 20,645,003 2.1 22,028,403 2.1 3.00 4.00 2,720,290 2.5 2,720,290 2.5 4.00 5.00 2,579,561 3.1 2,579,561 3.1 5.00 6.00 3,383,932 3.5 875,595 1.6 4,259,527 3.1 6.00 7.00 3,296,301 3.2 3,296,301 3.2 7.00 8.00 3,574,429 1.3 3,574,429 1.3 9.00 10.00 3,448,253 0.4 3,448,253 0.4 12.00 13.00 100,931 100,931 13,803,846 2.1 7,558,846 2.4 20,645,003 2.1 42,007,695 2.1 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 91 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
For those awards outstanding under the Executive Scheme it was between 5.03 and 12.88 2009: 5.03 and 12.98 : for those outstanding under the Sharesave Schemes it was between nil and 5.38 2009: nil and 6.11 and for all awards outstanding under the Senior Management Schemes the exercise price was nil 2009: nil.
The following table summarises additional information about the awards exercisable at 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2009: 2010 2009 Average Average remaining remaining Options contractual life Weighted Options contractual life Weighted exercisable of exercisable average exercisable of exercisable average at 30 June options exercise price at 30 June options exercise price Executive Scheme 13,803,846 2.1 7.44 17,945,045 3.0 7.11 Sharesave Schemes 204,427 0.1 4.35 453,217 0.1 4.73 Senior Management Schemes 656,011 0.1 14,664,284 2.0 7.06 18,398,262 3.0 7.05 Information for awards granted during the year The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share options granted during the year, as estimated at the date of grant, was 4.19 2009: 3.06.
This was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model, except for awards which have market-based performance conditions, where a Monte-Carlo simulation model was used, and for grants of nil-priced options, which were treated as the award of a free share.
The fair value of nil-priced options granted during the year was measured on the basis of the market-price of the Companys shares on the date of grant, discounted for expected dividends which would not be received over the vesting period of the options.
The Monte-Carlo simulation model reflected the historical volatilities of the Companys share price and those of all other companies to which the Companys performance would be compared, over a period equal to the vesting period of the awards.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price, over a period equal to the expected life of the options.
Expected life was based on the contractual life of the awards and adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
i Sharesave Schemes The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share awards granted during the year under the Sharesave Schemes, as estimated at the date of grant, was 1.65 2009: 1.98.
This was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model.
92 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms The following weighted average assumptions were used in calculating these fair values: 2010 2009 Share price 5.73 4.38 Exercise price 4.33 2.49 Expected volatility 28.3% 22.4% Expected life 4.1 years 3.7 years Expected dividends 3.1% 3.9% Risk-free interest rate 2.3% 4.1% ii Senior Management Schemes The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share awards granted during the year under the Senior Management Schemes, as estimated at the date of grant, was 4.80 2009: 3.49.
The fair value of awards with market-based performance conditions was calculated using a Monte-Carlo simulation model.
Awards granted as nil-priced options were treated as the award of a free share.
For all other awards, fair value was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in calculating these fair values: 2010 2009 Share price 5.47 4.54 Exercise price 0.00 0.00 Expected volatility 34.8% 21.9% Expected life 2.1 years 3.0 years Expected dividends 3.2% 3.7% Risk-free interest rate 2.1% 4.7% 26.
Shareholders equity deficit 2010 2009 m m Share capital 876 876 Share premium 1,437 1,437 ESOP reserve 47 73 Hedging reserve 77 26 Available-for-sale reserve 98 96 Other reserves 362 354 Retained earnings 2,243 2,780 560 64 Share premium and special reserve On 10 December 2003, the High Court approved a reduction in the Companys share premium account of 1,120 million, as approved by the Companys shareholders at the AGM held on 14 November 2003.
This amount was equal to the Company-only profit and loss account reserve deficit at 30 June 2003.
As part of the application, the Companys balance sheet at 30 September 2003 was required to be presented.
At that date, the deficit on the Company-only profit and loss account reserve had reduced by 14 million since 30 June 2003, to 1,106 million.
As a condition of the reduction, the reduction in the share premium account of 1,120 million was permitted to be offset against the profit and loss account reserve by the amount of the deficit at 30 September 2003.
The excess of 14 million was credited to a special reserve, and, under the terms of the reduction, will remain undistributable until all the creditors of the Company and its guarantors as at 10 December 2003 are paid.
Merger reserve The merger reserve, which is included in other reserves, represents amounts deducted from equity of 222 million 2009: 222 million.
The merger reserve was created as a result of the purchase by the Group of interests in two entities.
Sports Internet Group SIG was purchased on 12 July 2000, where consideration was paid by the issue of equity shares in the Group.
British Interactive Broadcasting BiB was purchased between 28 June 2001 and 11 November 2002, where consideration was paid by the issue of equity shares in the Group.
The merger reserve was created in accordance with the merger relief provisions under section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended and section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the accounting for business combinations involving the issue of shares at a premium.
Merger relief provided relief from the requirement to create a share premium account in a parent companys balance sheet.
In preparing consolidated financial statements, the amount by which the fair value of the shares issued exceeded their nominal value was recorded within a merger reserve on consolidation, rather than in a share premium account.
This merger reserve was retained upon transition to IFRS, as allowed under UK law.
Purchase of own equity shares for cancellation and capital redemption reserve On 4 November 2005, the Companys shareholders approved a resolution at the AGM for the Company to purchase up to 92 million ordinary shares.
This authority to buyback shares expired on 3 November 2006.
During the year ended 30 June 2007, the Company ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 93 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Shareholders equity deficit continued purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 38 million ordinary shares at an average price of 5.55, with a nominal value of 20 million, for a consideration of 214 million including stamp duty and commission of 2 million.
The nominal value of the shares cancelled has been credited to other reserves.
The following table provides information about purchases of equity shares by the company, including purchases by the Groups ESOP, during the fiscal year.
Total number Average of shares price paid i Period purchased per share July August 7,900,000 5.37 September October November December January February March April May 2,310,083 6.08 June Total for the year ended 30 June 2010 10,210,083 5.53 i All share purchases were open market transactions and are included in the month of settlement.
ESOP reserve The cost of the Companys ordinary shares held by the Groups ESOP is treated as a deduction in arriving at total shareholders equity.
The movement in the ESOP reserve was as follows: Average Number of price paid ordinary shares per share m At 1 July 2008 6,229,328 5.87 37 Share options exercised during the year 599,677 6.73 4 Shares purchased by the ESOP during the year 8,500,000 4.73 40 At 30 June 2009 14,129,651 5.15 73 Share options exercised during the year 15,824,390 5.17 82 Shares purchased by the ESOP during the year 10,210,083 5.53 56 At 30 June 2010 8,515,344 5.56 47 Hedging reserve Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges are initially recognised in the hedging reserve, and subsequently recognised in the income statement when the related hedged items are recognised in the income statement.
In addition, deferred taxation relating to these derivatives is also initially recognised in the hedging reserve prior to transfer to the income statement.
Available-for-sale reserve Available-for-sale investments are carried at fair value where this can be reliably measured, with movements in the fair value recognised directly in the available-for-sale reserve.
At 30 June 2010, the Groups available-for-sale reserve was 98 million 2009: 96 million following the impairment of the Groups 17.9% investment in ITV, the recording of subsequent gains, and the disposal of 10.4% of ITV see note 6.
Other reserves The Groups other reserves include a capital redemption reserve, a merger reserve, a foreign currency translation reserve, and a special reserve.
The capital redemption reserve was 95 million as at 30 June 2010 2009: 95 million.
The merger reserve was 222 million as at 30 June 2010 2009: 222 million.
The special reserve was 14 million as at 30 June 2010 2009: 14 million.
The foreign currency translation reserve was 31 million as at 30 June 2010 2009: 23 million.
94 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms 27.
Notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Reconciliation of profit before taxation to cash generated from operations 2010 2009 m m Profit before taxation 1,173 456 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 173 173 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 189 118 Impairment of available-for-sale investment 191 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment 115 Share-based payment expense 35 48 Net finance costs 70 185 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 32 19 1,493 1,152 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 69 52 Decrease increase in inventories 43 76 Increase in trade and other payables 24 190 Increase decrease in provisions 8 19 Decrease increase in derivative financial instruments 3 10 Cash generated from operations 1,634 1,205 28.
Contracted commitments, contingencies and guarantees a Future minimum expenditure contracted for but not recognised in the financial statements Year ending Year ending Year ending Year ending Year ending Total at Total at 30 June 2011 30 June 2012 30 June 2013 30 June 2014 30 June 2015 After 5 years 30 June 2010 30 June 2009 m m m m m m m m i Television programme rights 1,133 1,024 815 161 74 52 3,259 3,911 Set-top boxes and related equipment 266 266 496 ii Third party payments 67 34 32 1 134 204 iii Transponder capacity 81 81 81 72 67 369 751 282 Property, plant and equipment 41 41 51 Intangible asset 25 20 20 18 18 41 142 191 iv Smartcards 48 49 49 50 50 162 408 491 Other 108 51 14 10 7 7 197 107 1,769 1,259 1,011 312 216 631 5,198 5,733 For the avoidance of doubt, any foreign currency commitments are translated to pounds sterling at the rate prevailing on 30 June 2010. i At 30 June 2010, the Group had minimum television programming rights commitments of 3,259 million 2009: 3,911 million, of which 412 million 2009: 445 million related to commitments payable in US dollars for periods of up to eight years 2009: seven years.
Assuming that movie subscriber numbers remain unchanged from current levels, an additional 545 million US$886 million of commitments 2009: 551 million, US$879 million would also be payable in US dollars, relating to price escalator clauses.
The pound sterling television programme rights commitments include similar price escalation clauses that would result in additional commitments of 24 million 2009: 1 million if subscriber numbers were to remain at current levels.
ii The third party payment commitments are in respect of distribution agreements for the television channels owned and broadcast by third parties, retailed by the Group to retail and commercial subscribers Sky Distributed Channels and are for periods of up to four years 2009: five years.
The extent of the commitment is largely dependent upon the number of retail subscribers to the relevant Sky Distributed Channels, and in certain cases, upon inflationary increases.
If both the retail subscriber levels to these channels and the rate payable for each Sky Distributed Channel were to remain at current levels subject to inflationary increases, the additional commitment would be 521 million 2009: 533 million.
iii Transponder capacity commitments are in respect of the Astra and Eurobird satellites that the Group uses for digital transmissions to both retail subscribers and cable operators.
The commitments are for periods of up to fifteen years 2009: eleven years.
iv In December 2008, the Group entered into a new contractual agreement with NDS, a related party, for the provision of smartcards.
b Contingent liabilities and guarantees On 7 May 2008 the Nomenclature Committee of the European Commission issued an Explanatory Note EN 0590 2007 to the Combined Nomenclature setting out their view that set-top boxes with a hard drive should be classified under Customs Tariff heading 8521 90 00 and so subject to a 13.9% ad valorem duty on importation to the EU.
As a consequence the Group is exposed to potential retrospective Customs Duty liability in respect of such set-top boxes imported by Amstrad acquired in September 2007 and for the reimbursement of certain suppliers in line with the terms of contractual supply agreements.
Managements opinion is that the retrospective application of the Explanatory Note would be wrong as a matter of law.
In addition management considers that the adoption of the EN puts the EU in breach of the Information Technology Agreement of 1996, a view which is shared by the US, Japan, Singapore and Taiwan who have instigated WTO proceedings against the EU on this matter.
The Group therefore is, in common with other affected importers, defending its position on this matter and consequently has lodged an appeal to the VAT & Duties Tribunal regarding classification of these products.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 95 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Contracted commitments, contingencies and guarantees continued This matter has been referred by the Tribunal to the European Court of Justice.
The Group has also lodged an appeal with HMRC against the assessment for retrospective duty.
As a result of the potential remedies available under the Community Customs Code, the Group considers that it is probable that no outflow of economic benefit would be required to discharge this obligation, and that as such at 30 June 2010 any liability should be considered contingent.
Certain subsidiaries of the Company have agreed to provide additional funding to several of their investments in limited and unlimited companies and partnerships, in accordance with funding agreements.
Payment of this additional funding would be required if requested by the investees in accordance with the funding agreements.
The maximum potential amount of future payments which may be required to be made by the subsidiaries of the Company to their investments, in both limited and unlimited companies and partnerships under the undertakings and additional funding agreements, is 8 million 2009: 6 million.
The Group has guarantees in place relating to the Groups borrowings, see note 22 Borrowings and non-current other payables.
Operating lease commitments The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable operating leases at 30 June are as follows: 2010 2009 m m Within one year 51 55 Between one and two years 38 43 Between two and three years 29 33 Between three and four years 21 23 Between four and five years 16 15 After five years 61 66 216 235 The majority of operating leases relate to property.
The rents payable under these leases are subject to renegotiation at the various intervals specified in the leases.
The minimum sub-lease rentals to be received under non-cancellable operating sub-leases at 30 June are as follows: 2010 2009 m m Within one year 33 Between one and two years 33 Between two and three years 22 Between three and four years 12 Between four and five years 1 After five years 911 Sub-lease rentals primarily relate to property leases.
96 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Directors of the Company, who have been so advised by Morgan 30.
Transactions with related parties and major Stanley and UBS Investment Bank, unanimously considered the shareholders terms of the Proposal to undervalue significantly the Company.
a Entities with joint control or significant influence News Corporation has confirmed that the Proposal does not The Group conducts business transactions with companies that amount to a firm intention to make an offer under Rule 2.5 of the are part of the News Corporation group News Corporation, a Takeover Code and that there can be no certainty that any offer will major shareholder: ultimately be made even if the pre-conditions are satisfied or 2010 2009 waived.
There is no obligation on News Corporation to make such m m an offer and therefore it can withdraw the Proposal at its sole Supply of services by the Group 32 40 discretion at any time.
Purchases of goods or services by the Group 197 212 Amounts owed by related parties to the Group 3 Recognising that an offer from News Corporation could be in the Amounts owed to related parties by the Group 70 69 interests of the Companys shareholders in the future, and that obtaining any necessary merger clearances would facilitate such an Services supplied to News Corporation offer, the Company has agreed to co-operate with News During the year, the Group supplied programming, telephony, Corporation in seeking those clearances from the relevant airtime, transmission, marketing, consultancy services and set-top authorities.
To that end, the Company and News Corporation have entered into Purchases of goods and services and certain other relationships an agreement which also covers the following matters: with News Corporation The Company has agreed that it shall not request that the During the year, the Group purchased programming, digital Takeover Panel issue a Put up or shut up notice on News equipment, smartcards and encryption services, set-top box Corporation pursuant to Rule 2.4 b of the City Code on technologies, advertising, IT services and rental premises from Takeovers and Mergers unless it is in material breach of the News Corporation companies.
In March and April 2003, News Corporation Finance Trust II, which is controlled by News Corporation, issued and sold 0.75% Beneficial News Corporation has agreed that until the earlier of two Unsecured Exchangeable Securities BUCS, in a private months following receipt of merger clearance, payment of the placement to certain institutions.
Each BUCS was exchangeable on 38.5 million fee below and 31 December 2011, it shall not acquire or after 2 April 2004, for the value of reference shares, which initially or offer to acquire an interest in the Companys shares or take consisted of 77.09 ordinary shares of the Company for each action that would require it to make a takeover or similar US$1,000 original liquidation preference of BUCS.
Pursuant to a transaction in respect of the Groups shares without the consent right of redemption granted to BUCS holders, on 15 March 2010, of the Independent Directors.
Further, until the earlier of five News Corporation redeemed for cash 98.6% of the outstanding months following receipt of merger clearance, payment of the BUCS.
On 14 April 2010, News Corporation redeemed for cash the 38.5 million fee below and 31 December 2011, any offer must be remaining BUCS outstanding.
By reason of these subject to a minimum acceptance threshold of 70% including redemptions, the BUCS are no longer outstanding.
the shares owned by News Corporation.
In November 1996, a trust controlled by News Corporation issued a If merger clearance is not granted or granted subject to a security consisting of Trust Originated Preferred Securities material remedy, then News Corporation will reimburse the TOPrS issued by another News  trust, Company for costs incurred up to a maximum of 20 million.
together with warrants issued by News America, a subsidiary of Further, if News Corporation either receives merger clearance News Corporation.
The warrants entitled the holders to purchase unconditionally or subject to non-material remedies prior to the Companys ordinary shares, or American Depositary Shares 31 December 2011 and fails to make a firm offer within five ADSs representing the Companys ordinary shares, from News months thereafter, or announces prior to obtaining merger America.
On 19 April 2010, News America redeemed for cash all the clearance that it does not intend to make a firm offer, then News outstanding TOPrS and warrants.
By reason of the redemption, the Corporation will pay the Company a fee of 38.5 million, TOPrS and warrants are no longer outstanding.
representing 0.5% of the value of the Proposal.
News Corporation has entered into an agreement with the Group pursuant to which it has been agreed that, for so long as News Corporation directly or indirectly holds an interest of 30% or more in the Group, News Corporation will not engage in the business of satellite broadcasting in the UK or Ireland.
On 15 June 2010 News Corporation announced a proposal relating to a possible offer for the entire issued share capital of the Company not already owned by News Corporation the Proposal.
The Company announced on the same date that the Proposal, which is not a formal offer, is subject to regulatory and financing pre-conditions, which add considerable uncertainty to when and whether any formal offer could be made and that the Independent ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 97 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 19 million.
During the year, the Group incurred programming and Notes to the consolidated financial statements production costs for television of 6 million 2009: 10 million continued from Shine.
At 30 June 2010, there were no outstanding amounts 2009: nil due to Shine.
Transactions with related parties and major shareholders continued A close family member of one Director of the Company runs Freud b Joint ventures and associates Entertainment Limited, which has provided external support to the press and publicity activities of the Group.
During the year the Transactions between the Group and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not Group incurred expenditure amounting to 1 million 2009: disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its joint 1 million.
At 30 June 2010 there were no outstanding amounts 2009: nil due to or from Freud Entertainment Limited.
ventures and associates are disclosed below.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, joint In addition to the foregoing, the Group has engaged in a number of transactions with companies of which some of the Companys ventures and associates are disclosed in the Companys separate Directors are also directors.
2010 2009 d Key management m m The Group has a related party relationship with the Directors of the Supply of services by the Group 13 15 Group.
At 30 June 2010, there were 14 2009: 14 members of key Purchases of goods or services by the Group 55 51 management all of whom were Directors of the Company.
Key Amounts owed by joint ventures management compensation is disclosed in note 8b.
and associates to the Group 26 24 Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates by the Group 4 3 Services supplied are primarily the provision of transponder capacity, marketing, airtime sales and support services.
Purchases represent fees payable for channel carriage.
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates include 20 million 2009: 19 million relating to loan funding.
These loans bear interest at rates of three month LIBOR plus 0.45%, six month LIBOR plus 1.5% and one month and six month LIBOR plus 1%.
The maximum amount of loan funding outstanding in total from joint ventures and associates during the year was 20 million 2009: 19 million.
The Group took out a number of forward exchange contracts with counterparty banks during the year on behalf of the joint ventures Chelsea Digital Media Limited and AETN UK.
On the same dates as these forward contracts were entered into, the Group entered into equal and opposite contracts with the joint ventures in respect of these forward contracts.
The Group was not exposed to any of the net gains or losses on these forward contracts.
The face value of forward exchange contracts that had not matured as at 30 June 2010 was 1 million 2009: 3 million.
During the year, US$3 million 2009: US$9 million was paid to the joint ventures upon maturity of forward exchange contracts and US$2 million 2009: US$2 million was received from joint ventures upon maturity of forward exchange contracts.
During the year, 2 million 2009: 4 million was received from the joint ventures upon maturity of forward exchange contracts, and 2 million 2009: 1 million was paid to the joint ventures upon maturity of forward exchange contracts.
c Other transactions with related parties A close family member of one Director of the Company who served during the year has a controlling interest in Shine Limited Shine, in which the Group has a 13% equity shareholding.
During fiscal 2009, Shine conducted an equity raising as part of the funding for the acquisition of Metronome Film & Television AB.
The Group participated in the equity raising, acquiring a further 21,700 shares of the issued share capital of Shine for cash consideration of 98 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms 31.
Group investments The significant investments of the Company which principally affect the consolidated results and total assets of the Group are as follows: Description and proportion Name Country of incorporation of shares held % Principal activity Subsidiaries: Direct holdings of the Company British Sky Broadcasting Limited England and Wales 10,002,002 ordinary shares of Operation of pay television i 1 each 100% broadcasting in the UK and Ireland British Interactive Broadcasting Holdings Limited England and Wales 651,960 ordinary shares of The transmission of interactive 1 each 100% services BSkyB Investments Limited England and Wales 100 ordinary shares of Holding company 1 each 100% BSkyB Finance UK plc England and Wales 50,000 ordinary shares of Finance company 1 each 100% Subsidiaries: Indirect holdings of the Company Sky Subscribers Services Limited England and Wales 3 ordinary shares of 1 The provision of ancillary functions each 100% supporting the pay television broadcasting, residential broadband and telephone operations of the Group Sky Holdings Limited England and Wales 600 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Holding company Sky In-Home Service Limited England and Wales 1,576,000 ordinary shares of 1 each The supply, installation and 100% maintenance of satellite television receiving equipment BSkyB Publications Limited England and Wales 2 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% The supply of magazines British Sky Broadcasting SA Luxembourg 12,500 ordinary shares of 12 Satellite transponder each 100% leasing ii Sky Broadband SA Luxembourg 310 ordinary shares of 100 each Provision of broadband and 100% telephony services Sky Interactive Limited England and Wales 659,000,003 ordinary shares of 1 The provision of interactive television each 100% services Easynet Group Limited England and Wales 121,308,490 ordinary shares of 0.04 Provision of broadband networking each 100% services in the UK and Europe Sky Ventures Limited England and Wales 912 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Holding company 365 Media Group Limited England and Wales 151,970,072 ordinary shares of 0.01 Holding company each 100% Joint ventures and associates: iii Nickelodeon UK Limited England and Wales 104 B Shares of 0.01 each 40% The transmission of childrens television channels iv AETN UK England and Wales 50,000 A Shares of 1 each 50% The transmission of history, biography, crime and investigation television programming iii, v Paramount UK Partnership England and Wales Partnership interest 25% The transmission of general entertainment comedy channels Australian News Channel Pty Limited Australia 1 ordinary share of AUS$1 33.33% The transmission of news and business channels NGC Network International LLC United States of America Partnership interest 21% The transmission of natural history and adventure channels NGC Network Latin America LLC United States of America Partnership interest 21% The transmission of natural history and adventure channels MUTV Limited England and Wales 800 B Shares of 1 each 33.33% The transmission, production and marketing of the Manchester United football channel iii Attheraces Holdings Limited England and Wales 1,500 ordinary shares of 1 each The transmission of a horse racing 45.85%, 20 Recoupment Shares of channel and related online activities 0.01 each Chelsea Digital Media Limited England and Wales 42,648 B Shares of 0.01 each 35% The transmission, production and and 7 million redeemable preference marketing of the Chelsea Football shares of 1 each Club football channel and website MGM Channel UK Limited England and Wales 50 ordinary shares of 1 each 50% The transmission of classic movies in HD Investments: iii ITV England and Wales 291,684,730 ordinary shares of The transmission of free-to-air 0.10 each 7.499999965% channels Notes: i 50.00001% directly held by British Sky Broadcasting Group plc and 49.99999% held indirectly by BSkyB Investments Limited.
ii The assets and liabilities of this Company were transferred to BSkyB Limited in April 2010.
This entity will be dormant going forward.
iii These entities have an accounting reference date of 31 December.
iv On 1 July 2009, The History Channel UK was renamed as AETN UK.
v The registered address of Paramount UK Partnership is 180 Oxford Street, London, W1D 1DS.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 99 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Events after the reporting period b Agreement on sale of Easynet Global Services a Acquisition of Virgin Media television business business On 4 June 2010, the Group signed an agreement to purchase 100% On 21 July 2010 the Group announced that it had reached an of the shares of Virgin Media Television Limited, Virgin Media agreement over the sale of its business-to-business Television Rights Limited, and the assets and liabilities of the Virgin telecommunications operation, Easynet Global Services Easynet, Media television channels VMtv.
The agreement was conditional to Lloyds TSB Development Capital LDC.
LDC will pay the Group on obtaining merger control clearance in the Republic of Ireland.
100 million for the business on completion of the transaction, On 12 July 2010, the conditions to completion were fulfilled and the subject to regulatory approval.
The Group will retain the UK network Group completed the acquisition of VMtv.
VMtv operates a assets that it acquired as part of the original acquisition of Easynet portfolio of television channels including Living, Bravo, Virgin1 and Group in 2005.
As part of the sale, the Group and LDC will enter into Challenge which are distributed over various television platforms a long-term supply agreement to grant Easynet continued access and generate revenue principally from the sale of advertising to the Groups fibre network and Easynet will also continue to be a airtime and carriage fees paid by Pay-TV operators such as Virgin key supplier to the Group.
VMtv was acquired to complement the Groups If the transaction completes on the proposed terms, with the existing content business and to deliver strategic and financial regulatory approvals having been received, the Group estimates benefits.
that it will recognise an accounting profit on disposal to the order Goodwill arising from the acquisition is attributable to the of 70-90 million in the next financial year.
anticipated profitability arising from the Groups access to new viewer demographics, breadth of content and channel slots and the anticipated future operating synergies from the combination.
Total consideration comprises 160 million of cash, with 105 million having been paid immediately upon completion.
The outstanding contingent consideration of 55 million is payable upon receipt of UK regulatory clearance for the transaction.
The Group notified the transaction to the OFT on 9 July 2010.
The OFT has started its review of the transaction and issued its invitation to third parties to comment on the transaction on 20 July 2010.
Should certain conditions be imposed by the regulatory authorities the contingent consideration may be reduced.
The potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that the Group could be required to make under the contingent consideration arrangement is between nil and 55 million.
The Group estimates that the fair value of this contingent consideration is 55 million, less the time value of money.
Acquisition-related costs included in administration expenses in the Group consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 June 2010 amounted to 2 million.
Because the process of fair valuing the Virgin Media Television business has not been completed as at 28 July 2010, the initial accounting for the business combination is incomplete as at 28 July 2010.
As a result, the Group is unable to disclose the following information regarding the acquisition: the gross contractual amount, fair value amount, or estimated contractual cash flows not expected to be collected of from the receivables acquired the amounts recognised as of the acquisition date for each major class of assets and liabilities acquired assumed the existence of or the values relating to any contingent liabilities recognised in accordance with IAS 37 on acquisition the amount of goodwill acquired and the amount of goodwill that is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
100 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms 33.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Company only financial statements Company Income Statement for the year ended 30 June 2010 2010 2009 Notes m m Revenue 170 151 Operating expense 16 13 Operating profit 154 164 Dividend income from subsidiaries 556 Investment income B 76 201 Finance costs B 71 149 Impairment of investment F 56 556 Profit before tax C 103 216 Taxation D 44 29 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 59 187 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this income statement.
Company Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 30 June 2010 2010 2009 m m Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 59 187 Other comprehensive income Amounts recognised directly in equity Gain on cash flow hedges 38 266 Tax on cash flow hedges 11 75 27 191 Amounts reclassified and reported in the income statement Cash flow hedges 35 280 Tax on cash flow hedges 10 79 25 201 Other comprehensive income expense for the year net of tax 2 10 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders 61 177 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement of comprehensive income.
All results relate to continuing operations.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 101 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Company only financial statements continued Company Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2010 2010 2009 Notes m m Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment E Investment property E Investments in subsidiaries F 4,722 4,738 Deferred tax assets G 1 Other receivables H8 9 Derivative financial assets K 349 187 5,079 4,935 Current assets Other receivables H 3,432 3,395 3,432 3,395 Total assets 8,511 8,330 Current liabilities Borrowings I 463 Other payables J 2,340 1,521 Current tax liabilities 29 Derivative financial liabilities K 16 2,340 2,029 Non-current liabilities Borrowings I 1,219 1,121 Derivative financial liabilities K 203 168 1,422 1,289 Total liabilities 3,762 3,318 Share capital 876 876 Share premium 1,437 1,437 Reserves 2,436 2,699 Shareholders equity attributable to equity shareholders 4,749 5,012 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 8,511 8,330 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this balance sheet.
These financial statements of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc, registered number 2247735, have been approved by the Board of Directors on 28 July 2010 and were signed on its behalf by: Jeremy Darroch Andrew Griffith Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Company Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 30 June 2010 2010 2009 m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations N Net cash from operating activities Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from the exercise of share options 47 1 Loan to subsidiaries 47 1 Net cash used in financing activities Net increase in cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year The accompanying notes are an integral part of this cash flow statement.
102 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 30 June 2010 Capital Total Share Share Special redemption Capital ESOP Hedging Retained Shareholders capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity m m m m m m m m m At 1 July 2008 876 1,437 14 95 844 37 8 1,887 5,124 Profit for the year 187 187 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 14 14 Tax on items taken directly to equity 4 4 Total comprehensive income for the year 10 187 177 Share-based payment 36 45 9 Dividends 298 298 At 30 June 2009 876 1,437 14 95 844 73 2 1,821 5,012 Profit for the year 59 59 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 3 3 Tax on items taken directly to equity 1 1 Total comprehensive income for the year 2 59 61 Share-based payment 26 36 10 Dividends 314 314 At 30 June 2010 876 1,437 14 95 844 47 1,530 4,749 For a description of the nature and purpose of each equity reserve, see note M. The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement of changes in equity.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 103 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued B.
Investment income and finance costs Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2010 2009 m m 33.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Company only Investment income financial statements continued Investment income from subsidiaries 76 196 A.
Accounting policies Cash and cash equivalents 5 76 201 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc the Company is a limited liability company incorporated in England and Wales, and domiciled 2010 2009 in the UK.
m m i Statement of compliance Finance costs The Company financial statements have been prepared in Interest payable and similar charges accordance with IFRS, consistently with the accounting policies set Revolving Credit facility RCF 11 3 Guaranteed notes see note I 69 125 out in note 1 of the Companys consolidated financial statements.
Other finance expenses income ii Revenue Remeasurement of borrowings-related Revenue, which excludes value added tax, represents gross inflow derivative financial instruments 9 21 of economic benefit from the Companys operating activities.
Gain arising on derivatives in a Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received designated fair value hedge accounting or receivable.
The Companys main sources of revenue are relationship 26 18 recognised as follows: Loss arising on adjustment for hedged item in a designated fair value hedge Revenue from licensing the Companys brand name asset to accounting relationship 26 18 subsidiaries.
This revenue is recognised on an accruals basis 71 149 under the terms of relevant leasing agreements.
Revenue from leasing the Companys investment properties to C. Profit before taxation subsidiaries.
This revenue is recognised on an accruals basis.
Profit before taxation is stated after charging: iii Investment property 2010 2009 Investment property is initially stated at cost, which comprises the m m purchase price and any expenditure directly attributable to the Depreciation 1 acquisition of the property.
Subsequent to initial recognition, Rental income from subsidiaries 1 investment property is held at cost net of accumulated depreciation less any provision for impairment.
Audit fees iv Investment in subsidiaries Auditors remuneration was less than 1 million 2009: less than An investment in a subsidiary is recognised at cost less any 1 million.
As permitted by section 133 of the Employee benefits Companies Act 2006, where the relief afforded under section 131 of The Company had nil employees 2009: nil during the year.
the Companies Act 2006 applies, cost is the aggregate of the Key management compensation nominal value of the relevant number of the Companys shares and Amounts paid to the Directors of the Company are disclosed in the the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the share Report on Directors remuneration within British Sky Broadcasting capital of the subsidiary undertakings.
Dividends received from Group plcs 2010 Annual Report.
subsidiaries are recognised as income only to the extent that the Company receives distributions from accumulated profits of the D. Taxation subsidiary arising after the date of acquisition.
Distributions i Taxation recognised in the income statement received in excess of such profits are first recognised as a reduction 2010 2009 in the cost of investment.
m m Current tax expense Current year 44 29 Total current tax 44 29 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 20 Adjustment in respect of prior years 20 Total deferred tax charge Taxation 44 29 104 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms ii Deferred tax recognised directly in equity F. Investments in subsidiaries 2010 2009 Investments m m in subsidiaries m Deferred tax charge credit on hedging activities 1 4 Cost 1 4 At 1 July 2008 6,991 Additions 2 i iii Reconciliation of effective tax rate Disposal 694 Impairment 556 The tax expense for the year is higher 2009: lower than the At 30 June 2009 5,743 standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 28% applied to profit Additions 40 before tax.
The differences are explained below: Impairment 56 At 30 June 2010 5,727 2010 2009 m m Provision At 1 July 2008, 30 June 2009, and 30 June 2010 1,005 Profit before tax 103 216 Profit before tax multiplied by standard rate of Carrying amounts corporation tax in the UK of 28% 2009: 28% 29 60 At 1 July 2008 5,986 At 30 June 2009 4,738 Effects of: At 30 June 2010 4,722 Non-taxable income 147 Non-deductible expenditure 15 156 i Following the liquidation of one of the Companys subsidiaries, BSkyB Finance Group relief surrendered for no consideration 40 Luxembourg s. a. r. l, the Company no longer holds this investment.
Taxation 44 29 See note 31 for a list of significant investments of the Company.
All taxation relates to UK corporation tax.
G. Deferred tax assets E. Property, plant and equipment and investment Recognised deferred tax assets property Financial instrument Total Total plant, temporary investment property and i differences properties equipment m m m At 1 July 2008 3 Cost Charge to income At 1 July 2008 23 3 Charge to equity 4 Disposals 23 At 30 June 2009 1 At 30 June 2009 and 30 June 2010 3 Charge to income Depreciation Charge to equity 1 At 1 July 2008 2 2 At 30 June 2010 Depreciation 1 Disposals 2 At 30 June 2010, a deferred tax asset of 349 million 2009: 349 At 30 June 2009 and 30 June 2010 3 million has not been recognised in respect of potential capital Carrying amounts losses related to the Groups holding of KirchPayTV, on the basis At 1 July 2008 21 1 that utilisation of these temporary differences is not probable.
At At 30 June 2009 and 30 June 2010 30 June 2010, the Company has also not recognised a deferred tax i At 30 June 2010 the Company no longer has any investment properties as these asset of 1 million 2009: 1 million relating to provisions in have been sold to British Sky Broadcasting Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of respect of football club investments, on the basis that it is not the Company, for consideration of 29 million.
A profit on disposal of 2 million was probable that they will be utilised.
realised from the sale in 2009.
H. Other receivables 2010 2009 m m Prepayments and other receivables 5 Amounts receivable from subsidiaries 3,430 3,390 Accrued income 2 Current other receivables 3,432 3,395 Non current prepayment 8 9 Total other receivables 3,440 3,404 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 105 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Company only financial statements continued During the year, the Company repaid the 100 million Guaranteed Notes due on 9 July 2010 and on the same date recalled a matching inter-company loan made to BSkyB Limited.
The external loan and the inter-company loan accrued interest at 7.75%.
On 29 June 2008, the Company entered into the following loan agreements with BSkyB Limited: 143 million and 109 million, both bearing interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75%.
These loans are repayable on demand.
11 million at an interest rate of 12 month LIBOR plus 0.75%.
This loan matures on 10 December 2012.
On 13 January 2009, the Company made a loan of 252 million to BSkyB Limited.
This loan bears interest at a rate of 6 month LIBOR plus 1.00% and is repayable on demand.
On 5 March 2009, the Company made a loan of 694 million to BSkyB Limited which is repayable on demand and bears interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75%.
In October 2009, the Company assigned 604 million of this loan to settle payables with BSkyB Finance Limited.
On 29 June 2008, the Company entered into a RCF with BSkyB Investments for 400 million.
Amounts loaned under this facility bear interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75%, compounded annually and are repayable on demand.
In November 2008, the Company issued $600 million of bonds with a coupon rate of 9.5% and loaned the bond proceeds to BSkyB Finance Limited.
BSkyB Finance Limited pays the same annual effective interest rate to the Company.
On 29 June 2008, the Company entered into a loan for 92 million with Sky Digital Supplies Limited.
This loan is repayable on demand and bears interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75%.
On 29 June 2008, Sky Ventures Limited transferred its 11 million loan receivable from BSkyB Finance Limited to the Company.
This loan bears interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75% and is repayable on demand.
On 29 June 2008, the Company entered into a RCF with BSkyB Finance Limited worth 20 million.
Amounts loaned under this facility bear interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75%, compounded annually and repayable on demand.
On 13 January 2009, the Company made a loan of 91 million to Sky In-Home Service Limited.
This loan is repayable on demand and bears interest at a rate of 6 month LIBOR plus 1.00%.
All other amounts receivable from subsidiaries are non-interest bearing and are also repayable on demand.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of other receivables approximates to their fair values.
The Companys credit risk is primarily attributable to its other receivables.
The majority of its other receivables balance is due from British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
The risk of this entity defaulting on amounts owed is considered low due to its successful operation of a pay television broadcasting service in the UK and Ireland.
Borrowings 2010 2009 m m Current borrowings 100 million of 7.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in July 2009 100 US$600 million of 8.200% Guaranteed Notes repayable in July 2009 363 463 Non-current borrowings US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 511 459 US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 413 367 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 295 295 1,219 1,121 See note 22 for details of the Companys Guaranteed Notes and RCF and note 24 for details of Capital Risk Management.
106 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms J.
Other payables 2010 2009 m m Other payables Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 2,321 1,483 Accruals 19 38 2,340 1,521 Amounts payable to subsidiaries are non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
The balance comprises 1.2 billion of non-interest bearing loans 2009: 0.3 billion and 1.1 billion of trade payables 2009: 1.2 billion.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of other payables approximates to their fair values.
K. Derivatives and other financial instruments Fair values Set out below is a comparison by category of the book values and the estimated fair values of the Companys financial assets and financial liabilities at 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2009: 2010 2010 2009 2009 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m Financial assets and liabilities held or issued to finance the Companys operations Quoted bond debt 1,219 1,382 1,584 1,678 Derivative financial instruments 146 146 3 3 Other payables and receivables 1,092 1,092 1,874 1,874 The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as detailed in note 23 and all items are classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
During the year ended 30 June 2010 the Company recognised gains of 9 million in the income statement 2009: 21 million.
Set out below are the derivative financial instruments entered into by the Company to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange risk.
2010 2009 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps and swaptions 47 514 54 800 35 323 Cash flow hedges Cross-currency swaps 87 290 104 661 73 752 Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship Interest rate swaps and swaptions 1 93 1 30 Currency swaps 215 1,075 203 1,369 28 353 75 658 Total 349 1,879 203 1,369 187 1,907 184 1,763 The notional values shown are the notional amounts of the derivatives identified.
Note 23 provides further details of the Groups derivative and other financial instruments.
The maturity of derivative financial instruments is shown below: 2010 2009 Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m In one year or less 16 Between one and two years Between two and five years In more than five years 349 203 187 168 Total 349 203 187 184 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 107 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Company only financial statements continued L. Financial risk management Interest rate and Foreign exchange risk management The Company manages its exposure to interest rates and foreign exchange movements, which arise from the Companys sources of finance by selectively entering into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure.
The Company has also entered into derivative contracts on behalf of its subsidiary BSkyB Finance UK plc, and has back-to-back inter-company contracts.
Foreign exchange risk The following analysis details the Companys sensitivity to movements in pounds sterling against all currencies in which it has significant transactions.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated financial instruments and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 25% change in foreign currency rates, representing the maximum currency exposure reported to management on a regular basis.
A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have an adverse impact on profit of 33 million 2009: adverse impact of 33 million, relating to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same strengthening would have an adverse impact on other equity of 17 million 2009: adverse impact of 13 million.
A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have a beneficial impact on profit of 55 million 2009: beneficial impact of 54 million, relating to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same weakening would have a beneficial impact on other equity of 28 million 2009: beneficial impact of 21 million.
Interest rate risk The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
For each one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates at 30 June 2010, and if all other variables were held constant, the Companys profit for the year ended 30 June 2010 would decrease or increase by 5 million 2009: decrease or increase by 5 million and other equity reserves would decrease or increase by 6 million 2009: decrease or increase by 4 million.
A one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates represents a large but realistic movement which can easily be multiplied to give sensitivities at different interest rates.
The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because the effect of a change in a particular market variable on fair values or cash flows is calculated without considering interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating actions that would be taken by the Company.
In addition, the Companys actual exposure to market rates changes as the Companys portfolio of debt changes.
The changes in valuations are estimates of the impact of changes in market variables and are not a prediction of future events or anticipated gains or losses.
Liquidity risk See note 24 for the Companys policy on liquidity management.
The following table analyses the Companys non-derivative financial liabilities, net-settled interest rate swaps and gross-settled currency swaps and collars into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
These amounts may not reconcile to the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet for borrowings, derivative financial instruments and other payables.
108 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Between Between More Less than 12 one and two two and five than five months years years years m m m m At 30 June 2010 Non derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 68 68 203 1,111 Bonds GBP 18 18 54 516 Other payables Net settled derivatives Financial assets 19 19 57 65 Financial liabilities Gross settled derivatives Outflow 48 48 143 933 Inflow 48 48 145 1,046 Between Between More Less than 12 one and two two and five than five months years years years m m m m At 30 June 2009 Non derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 441 62 187 1,084 Bonds GBP 126 18 54 534 Other payables 1,521 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 14 14 41 61 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 442 47 141 990 Inflow 426 48 143 1,020 At 30 June 2010, the Company had an undrawn 750 million Revolving Credit Facility RCF with a maturity date of 30 July 2013.
See note 22 for further information.
M. Notes to the company statement of changes in equity For details of share capital, share premium, the special reserve and the capital redemption reserve, see notes 25 and 26.
For details of dividends, see note 11.
Capital reserve This reserve arose from the surplus on the transfer of trade and assets to a subsidiary undertaking.
Hedging reserve Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges are initially recognised in the hedging reserve, and then recognised in the income statement when the related hedged items are recognised in the income statement.
N. Reconciliation of profit before taxation to cash generated from operations 2010 2009 m m Profit before taxation 103 216 Depreciation 1 Dividend income 556 Impairment of investment 56 556 Disposal of investment 694 Net finance income 5 52 Increase in other receivables 974 293 Increase decrease in other payables 820 566 Cash generated from operations ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 109 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Company only financial statements continued O.
Contingent liabilities and guarantees The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have undertaken, in the normal course of business, to provide support to several of the Groups investments in both limited and unlimited companies and partnerships, to meet their liabilities as they fall due.
Several of these undertakings contain maximum financial limits.
These undertakings have been given for at least one year from the date of the signing of the UK statutory accounts of the related entity.
A payment under these undertakings would be required in the event of an investment being unable to pay its liabilities.
The Company has provided parent company guarantees in respect of the various contracts entered into with the PL by BSkyB Limited covering the 2010 11 to 2012 13 football seasons.
In each case the guarantee covers all payment obligations now or in the future due, owing or incurred by BSkyB Limited under the contracts and all liabilities now or in the future arising or incurred under the indemnity given to the PL by BSkyB Limited under the contracts.
The Company has provided a parent company guarantee in respect of the contract entered into with British Telecommunications plc by Sky Broadband SA and since novated to British Sky Broadcasting Limited covering the provision of call services for Sky Talk until 2010 11.
The guarantee covers all payment obligations now or in the future due under the contract.
The Company has provided a parental company guarantee in respect of the contract entered into with British Sky Broadcasting Limited and Stanhope Plc in relation to the construction of a new building at the Osterley Campus.
The guarantee covers all performance obligations and payment obligations imposed on British Sky Broadcasting Limited under that contract.
The Company has provided a limited parental company guarantee in respect of a credit facility provided to BSkyB Publications Limited by Royal Mail Group plc in relation to the delivery of customer magazines.
The guarantee covers all payment obligations of BSkyB Publications Limited and is capped at 2 million together with interest.
The Company has guarantees in place relating to the Groups borrowings, see note 22 Borrowings and non-current other payables.
P. Transactions with related parties and major shareholders 2010 2009 m m Supply of services to subsidiaries 162 143 Interest received from funding to subsidiaries 76 192 Amounts owed by subsidiaries 3,432 3,390 Amounts owed to subsidiaries 2,321 1,483 The Company has related party transactions with its subsidiaries by virtue of its status as parent company of the Group.
In particular, it is normal treasury practice for the Company to lend and borrow cash to and from its subsidiaries as required.
Under this policy, British Sky Broadcasting Limited settled liabilities of 87 million 2009: 134 million on behalf of the Company, during the year.
Interest is earned on certain loans to subsidiaries.
The Company received 162 million 2009: 142 million for licensing the Sky brand name to subsidiaries.
The Company received no income 2009: 1 million for leasing investment property to subsidiaries.
In 2009 the Company sold its investment properties for the consideration of 29 million.
The properties were sold to British Sky Broadcasting Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
The Company received dividends during the year from subsidiaries totalling 100,000 2009: 556 million.
110 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010
