Directors report: Business review Directors remuneration report Financial Statements Supplementary information Accounting policies Basis of preparation IAS 12 amendment Income Taxes The Consolidated Group and Parent Company Financial IAS 24 revised Related party disclosures Statements of International Personal Finance plc and its subsidiaries IPF or the Group have been prepared in IAS 32 amendment Classification of rights issues accordance with European Union endorsed International IFRIC 14 amendment Prepayments of a minimum Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, International Financial funding requirement Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with reporting under IFRS.
equity instruments The following new standards, amendments to standards and Accounting convention interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the financial The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared year beginning 1 January 2010, but do not have any impact on under the historical cost convention, as modified by the the Group: revaluation of derivative financial instruments at fair value.
IFRS 1 revised First-time adoption The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently, are set out in the following paragraphs.
IFRS 2 amendment Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions Consolidation IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations These consolidated Financial Statements include the financial results of all companies which are controlled by the Group.
IFRS 5 amendment Non-current assets held for sale and Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the discontinued operations financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain IFRIC 18 Transfers of assets from customers benefits from its activities.
All companies are 100% owned by IPF plc Group companies.
A list of the principal subsidiaries IAS 1 amendment Presentation of Financial Statements in the Group is included within note 13.
IAS 38 amendment Intangible assets Finance costs IAS 36 amendment Impairment of assets Finance costs comprise the interest on external borrowings IAS 27 revised Consolidated and separate which are recognised on an effective interest rate EIR Financial Statements basis, and gains or losses on derivative contracts taken to the income statement.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of non-cash assets to owners The following standards, interpretations and amendments Segment reporting to existing standards are not yet effective and have not been The Groups operating segments are reported in a manner early adopted by the Group: consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker, IFRS 1 amendment Hyperinflation and fixed dates who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing IFRS 7 amendment Financial instruments disclosures performance of operating segments, has been identified as the Board.
This standard is the first segment is a component of the Group that operates within a step in the process to replace IAS 39, Financial instruments: particular economic environment and that is subject to risks recognition and measurement.
IFRS 9 introduces new and returns that are different from those of components requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets operating in other economic environments.
and is likely to affect the Groups accounting for its financial assets.
The standard is not applicable until 1 January 2013 but is available for early adoption.
However, the standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The Group is in the process of assessing IFRS 9s full impact.
co. uk Financial Statements 95 Financial Statements Accounting policies continued Revenue Exceptional items Revenue, which excludes value added tax and intra-Group The Group classifies as exceptional those significant items transactions, comprises revenue earned on amounts receivable that are one-off in nature and do not reflect the underlying from customers.
Revenue on customer receivables is performance of the Group.
The EIR is calculated using estimated cash flows, being contractual payments adjusted for the impact Financial instruments of customers paying early but excluding the anticipated impact Amounts receivable from customers of customers paying late or not paying at all.
All customer receivables are initially recognised at the amount loaned to the customer plus directly attributable incremental Directly attributable issue costs are also taken into account issue costs.
After initial recognition, customer receivables are in calculating the EIR.
Interest income continues to be accrued subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is on impaired receivables using the original EIR applied to the the amount of the customer receivable at initial recognition loans carrying value.
less customer repayments, plus revenue earned calculated The accounting for amounts receivable from customers is using the EIR, less any deduction for impairment.
receivables are classified as loans and receivables in accordance with IAS 39.
Leases All customer receivables are assessed for impairment each The leases entered into by the Group are solely operating week.
Customer accounts that are in arrears those that have leases.
Costs in respect of operating leases are charged to the missed any portion of a contractual payment are deemed to income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
have demonstrated evidence of impairment and are subject to an impairment review.
Impairment is calculated using actuarial Other operating costs models which use historical payment performance to generate Other operating costs include agent commission, marketing the estimated amount and timing of future cash flows from costs and foreign exchange gains and losses.
All other costs each arrears stage.
These estimated future cash flows are are included in administrative expenses.
discounted to a present value using the original EIR and this figure is compared with the balance sheet value.
All such Share-based payments impairments are charged to the income statement.
The cost of providing share-based payments to employees is charged to the income statement over the vesting period The unwinding of the discounted value used to compute the of the award.
The corresponding credit is made to retained impairment is reflected in the interest charged on the impaired earnings.
The cost is based on the fair value of awards loan.
Impairment charges in respect of customer receivables granted, determined using a Monte Carlo simulation option are charged to the income statement.
pricing model or binomial option pricing model depending on the type of award.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and In the Parent Company Financial Statements, in accordance in hand.
Cash also includes those balances held by agents with IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions, for operational purposes.
Bank overdrafts are presented in the fair value of providing share-based payments to employees current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset of subsidiary companies is treated as an increase in the with cash balances.
96 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Directors report: Business review Directors remuneration report Financial Statements Supplementary information Derivative financial instruments Trade payables The Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts, subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective to manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from interest method.
the Groups underlying business operations.
No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken.
Intangible assets Intangible assets comprise computer software.
Computer All derivative financial instruments are assessed against the software is capitalised as an intangible asset on the basis of the hedge accounting criteria set out in IAS 39.
The majority of the costs incurred to acquire or develop the specific software and Groups derivatives are cash flow hedges of highly probable bring it into use.
forecast transactions and meet the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39.
The Group also uses some foreign Computer software is amortised on a straight-line basis over currency contracts which do not qualify for hedge accounting its estimated useful economic life which is generally estimated as they do not hedge a specific future transaction.
The residual values and economic lives are contracts are used to reduce the impact of exchange rate reviewed by management at each balance sheet date.
fluctuations on the reported results.
Derivatives are initially recognised at the fair value on the date a derivative contract Investments in subsidiaries is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at each Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, where cost is reporting date at their fair value.
Where derivatives do not equal to the fair value of the consideration used to acquire the qualify for hedge accounting, movements in their fair value asset.
Investments are tested for impairment whenever events are recognised immediately within the income statement.
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for For derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges and the amount by which the investment carrying value exceeds where the hedge accounting criteria are met, the effective the higher of the assets value in use or its fair value less costs portion of changes in the fair value is recognised in other to sell.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income Property, plant and equipment statement as part of finance costs.
Amounts accumulated Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less in equity are recognised in the income statement when subsequent depreciation and impairment.
Cost represents the income or expense on the hedged item is recognised invoiced cost plus any other costs that are directly attributable in the income statement.
to the acquisition of the items.
Repairs and maintenance costs The Group discontinues hedge accounting when: are expensed as incurred.
it is evident from testing that a derivative is not, or has ceased Depreciation is calculated to write down assets to their to be, highly effective as a hedge: estimated realisable value over their useful economic lives.
the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised: or The following are the principal bases used: the underlying hedged item matures or is sold or repaid.
Category Depreciation rate Method Fixtures and fittings 10% Straight-line Borrowings Equipment including Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being computer hardware 20 to 33.3% Straight-line their issue proceeds net of any transaction costs incurred.
Motor vehicles 25% Reducing balance Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the The residual value and useful economic life of all assets are redemption value is recognised in the income statement over reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet the expected life of the borrowings using the EIR.
All items of property, plant and equipment are tested for are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets value in use or its fair value less costs to sell.
co. uk Financial Statements 97 Financial Statements Accounting policies continued Share capital Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have IPF plc has only ordinary share capital.
These shares, with a been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date nominal value of 10 pence per share, are classified as equity.
and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Shares held by employee trust Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable The net amount paid by the employee trust to acquire shares is on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and held in a separate reserve and shown as a reduction in equity.
liabilities in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is Foreign currency translation accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Groups subsidiaries are measured using the currency of Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary on investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of operates the functional currency.
The Groups financial the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the information is presented in sterling.
Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the future.
Transactions that are not denominated in a subsidiarys functional currency are recorded at the rate of exchange Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is ruling at the date of the transaction.
probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency Employee benefits at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Defined benefit pension plan Differences arising on translation are charged or credited The charge or credit in the income statement in respect of to the income statement, except when deferred in other the defined benefit pension plan comprises the actuarially comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges assessed current service cost of working employees together or qualifying net investment hedges.
with the interest charge on pension liabilities offset by the The income statements of the Group subsidiaries none expected return on pension scheme assets.
All charges or of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy credits are allocated to administrative expenses.
that have a functional currency different from sterling are The asset or obligation recognised in the balance sheet in translated into sterling at the average exchange rate and the respect of the defined benefit pension plan is the fair value of balance sheets are translated at the exchange rates ruling the plans assets less the present value of the defined benefit at each balance sheet date.
obligation at the balance sheet date.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by translation of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries, independent actuaries using the projected unit credit and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is as hedges of such investments, are taken to other comprehensive determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows income.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that have differences are recognised in the income statement as part terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related of the gain or loss on sale.
Taxation Cumulative actuarial gains and losses arising from experience The tax expense represents the sum of current and deferred adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised tax.
Current tax is calculated based on taxable profit for the immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
year using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
98 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Directors report: Business review Directors remuneration report Financial Statements Supplementary information Past service costs are recognised immediately in the Retirement benefit asset or obligation income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan A number of judgements and estimates are made in are conditional on the employees remaining in service for assessing the amount of the retirement benefit asset or a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, obligation at each balance sheet date, the key ones being the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line discount rate, mortality rates, investment returns, salary basis over the vesting period.
inflation and rate of pension increases.
These judgements and estimates are derived after taking into account the The Parent Company share of the defined benefit requirements of IAS 19 Retirement benefit obligations retirement obligation is based on the proportion of total and after taking the advice of the Groups actuaries.
Group contributions made by the Parent Company.
Further details on the key assumptions used are set out Defined contribution plans in note 25.
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the income statement on an accruals basis.
Tax The Group is subject to tax in a number of international Key assumptions and estimates jurisdictions as well as the UK.
In some cases, due to the In applying the accounting policies set out above, the Group unusual features of home credit, the tax treatment of certain makes significant estimates and assumptions that affect the items cannot be determined with certainty until the operation reported amounts of assets and liabilities as follows: has been subject to a tax audit.
In some instances, this can be some years after the item has first been reflected in Amounts receivable from customers the Financial Statements.
The Group recognises liabilities The Group reviews its portfolio of customer loans and for anticipated tax audit and enquiry issues based on an receivables for impairment every week.
The Group makes assessment of whether such liabilities are likely to fall due.
judgements to determine whether there is objective evidence If the outcome of such audits is that the final liability is different which indicates that there has been an adverse effect on to the amount originally estimated, such differences will expected future cash flows.
be recognised in the period in which the audit or enquiry For the purposes of assessing the impairment of customer is determined.
Any differences may necessitate a material loans and receivables, customers are categorised into arrears adjustment to the level of tax balances held in the balance sheet.
stages as this is considered to be the most reliable predictor of future payment performance.
The level of impairment is calculated using actuarial models which use historical payment performance to generate the estimated amount and timing of future cash flows from each arrears stage of each product.
The impairment models are reviewed regularly to take account of the current economic environment and recent customer payment performance.
However, on the basis that the payment performance of customers could be different from the assumptions used in estimating future cash flows, a material adjustment to the carrying value of amounts receivable from customers may be required.
To the extent that the net present value of estimated cash flows differs by 5%, it is estimated that amounts receivable from customers would be 28.3m higher lower 2009: 26.3m.
