15. business combinations continued Provisional fair value Book value adjustments Fair value Fair value m m m m Intangible assets 81.4 33.3 114.7 98.8 Property, plant and equipment 27.2 15.7 42.9 36.9 Other financial assets 2.3 2.3 2.0 Inventories 35.7 1.6 37.3 32.1 Trade and other receivables 73.2 73.2 63.0 Cash and cash equivalents 10.0 10.0 8.6 Trade and other payables 86.2 0.5 86.7 74.7 Pension liability 1.2 1.2 1.0 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 53.4 53.4 46.0 Other non-current liabilities 3.8 3.8 3.3 Other financial liabilities 0.9 0.9 0.8 Deferred tax liability 17.6 17.6 15.1 Current income tax payable 1.8 0.5 2.3 1.9 net assets acquired 82.5 32.0 114.5 98.6 purchased goodwill 71.9 61.9 cost of investment satisfied by cash consideration 186.4 160.5 net cash outflow arising on acquisition of shares in britvic france m Cash consideration 160.5 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 8.6 cash flow on acquisition of shares in britvic france net of cash acquired 151.9 In addition to the cost of investment outlined above, acquisition costs of 5.3m excluding integration costs have been incurred in the current period.
These have been included within exceptional and other items see note 5.
The selling shareholders of the Fruit business have contractually agreed to indemnify Britvic plc for specific historic claims being brought against the business.
Due to the nature of these items it is not possible to accurately estimate the likely outcome or magnitude of the matters.
No provision has been recognised in the consolidated financial statements, however, the group is not exposed as any amounts payable in respect of these items would be fully settled by the vendor.
16. impaiRment testinG of intanGible assets Goodwill Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated by senior management to eight individual cash-generating units for impairment testing as follows: Red Devil: Orchid: Tango: Robinsons: Britvic Soft Drinks business: Water Business: Britvic Ireland: and Britvic France.
With the exception of Britvic Ireland and Britvic France, all other goodwill amounts were recognised on acquisitions made within Britvic GB.
carrying amount of goodwill Britvic Britvic Red Devil Orchid Tango Robinsons BSD Water Ireland France total m m m m m m m m m At 3 October 2010 6.0 8.9 38.6 7.8 1.7 16.8 62.7 142.5 At 27 September 2009 5.0 12.4 8.9 38.6 7.8 1.7 77.7 152.1 The Britvic Ireland and Britvic France goodwill is valued in euros and translated at the reporting date.
Movements in the carrying amounts from the prior year primarily relate to impairment losses in the GB carbs segment for the Red Devil and Orchid trademarks, and to Britvic Ireland.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2010 73 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 16. impaiRment testinG of intanGible assets continued trademarks with indefinite lives As part of the fair value exercise regarding the 2007 acquisition of Britvic Ireland, certain trademarks with indefinite lives were recognised.
These Britvic Ireland trademarks have been allocated by senior management to six individual cash-generating units for impairment testing as follows: Britvic: Cidona: Mi-Wadi: Ballygowan: Club: and TK.
carrying amount of trademarks with indefinite lives in the ireland segment Britvic Cidona Mi-Wadi Ballygowan Club TK m m m m m m At 3 October 2010 6.5 5.8 8.9 2.5 14.8 At 27 September 2009 10.8 8.7 9.4 28.1 15.6 0.6 The trademarks are valued in euros and translated at the reporting date.
The movements in the carrying amount from the prior year relate to impairment losses and translation movements.
carrying amount of trademarks with indefinite lives in the france segment Additional trademarks with indefinite lives have been recognised as part of the fair value exercise on the acquisition of Britvic France.
These are shown in the table below: Moulin fide Teisseire Valdonne Pressade Fruit m m m m At 3 October 2010 49.9 4.1 4.7 4.4 At 27 September 2009 Further details are contained within notes 14 and 15. method of impairment testing The recoverable amount of the goodwill and intangible assets allocated to the cash-generating units detailed above has been determined based on a value in use calculation.
To calculate this, 20 year cash flow projections are based on financial budgets prepared by senior management and approved by the board of directors.
A 20 year cash flow period has been used to reflect the considered longevity of the cash-generating units.
The group has considered the impact of the current economic climate in determining the appropriate discount rate to use in impairment testing.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to pre-tax cash flow projections is 11 per cent 2009: 11 per cent for goodwill excluding Britvic Ireland, 10 per cent 2009: 9 per cent for the Britvic Ireland goodwill and trademarks recognised on the acquisition of Britvic Ireland and 11 per cent for the Britvic France goodwill and trademarks recognised on the acquisition of Britvic France.
Cash flows beyond a one year period are extrapolated based on senior management forecasts.
No growth besides inflationary increases is assumed beyond five years.
Senior management expectations are formed in line with performance to date and experience, as well as available external market data.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculation The following describes each key assumption on which management has based its cash flow projections to undertake impairment testing of goodwill.
Growth rates reflect senior management expectations of volume growth based on growth achieved to date, current strategy and expected market trends.
No growth besides inflationary growth increases is assumed beyond five years.
Discount rates reflect senior managements estimate of the pre-tax cost of capital.
The estimated pre-tax cost of capital is the benchmark used by management to assess operating performance and to evaluate future capital investment proposals.
Marginal contribution being revenue less material costs and all other marginal costs that management considers to be directly attributable to the sale of a given product.
Marginal contribution is based on financial budgets approved by the Britvic plc board.
Key assumptions are made within these budgets about pricing, discounts and costs based on historical data, current strategy and expected market trends.
Advertising and promotional spend financial budgets approved by senior management are used to determine the value assigned to advertising and promotional spend.
This is based on the planned spend for year one and strategic intent thereafter.
Raw materials price, production and distribution costs, selling costs and other overhead inflation the basis used to determine the value assigned to inflation is forecast increase in consumer price indices of 2.0 per cent 2009: 3.0 per cent.
This has been used in all value in use calculations performed.
74 Britvic plc Annual Report 2010 16. impaiRment testinG of intanGible assets continued conclusions Red devil goodwill Management no longer consider that the goodwill value carried in respect of Red Devil, within the GB business segment, is appropriate given market trends and the successful launch of Mountain Dew Energy during the period.
As a result, the goodwill value of 5.0m has been fully written down in the current period.
orchid goodwill Management have revised the future cash flow expectations for the Orchid cash generating unit, within the GB business segment, to reflect the groups strategic portfolio priorities and an impairment loss of 6.4m has been recognised in the current period.
britvic ireland goodwill and trademarks with indefinite lives As a result of the difficult trading conditions experienced in Ireland due to the sustained economic downturn, future cash flow expectations across the cash generating units under the Britvic Ireland business segment have been revised.
Impairment losses have been recognised in respect of Britvic Ireland goodwill 54.7m and in respect of the Britvic 3.5m, Cidona 2.4m, Ballygowan 23.3m and TK 0.5m trademarks.
With regards to all of the remaining CGUs, there are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions other than a further, currently unforecast material decline in the prospects for the economies in which the group operates, which would cause the value of the goodwill or any of the intangible assets with indefinite lives to materially fall short of their carrying value.
intangible assets with finite lives trademarks A trademark in respect of the C&C brand, within the Britvic Ireland business segment, was recognised as part of the fair value exercise on the acquisition of Britvic Ireland.
This trademark was being amortised over a 5 year licence period.
Use of this trademark has now ceased and as a result its remaining carrying value has been fully written down and an impairment loss of 0.1m has been recognised in the current period.
franchise rights Franchise rights represent the franchise agreements acquired, as a result of the acquisition of Britvic Ireland, which provide the long term right to distribute certain soft drinks.
Management have reviewed the performance of those products since acquisition and no indicators of impairment have been identified.
customer lists As part of the fair value exercise regarding the acquisition of Britvic Ireland in 2007, customer list assets with finite lives were recognised.
Management have reviewed trading levels with those customers since acquisition and identified a number of material reductions which have been directly attributed to the difficult trading conditions experienced in Ireland due to the sustained economic downturn.
Management have therefore proportionately reduced the carrying value of these assets and impairment losses of 5.1m have been recognised in the current period.
No impairment is required for the customer lists recognised on the acquisition of Britvic France.
Recognition of impairment losses Impairment losses, in respect of intangible assets as detailed above, totalling 101.0m 2009: nil have been recognised in the income statement within exceptional administration expenses.
11.4m relates to the GB carbs business segment and 89.6m relates to the Britvic Ireland business segment.
sensitivity to changes in assumptions britvic ireland goodwill and intangible assets Management consider that whilst the expectation is that the Irish economy will begin to show some recovery over the medium term, it is possible that it could continue to decline.
On this basis the cash flows that have been used for the value in use calculations have been risk adjusted.
Based on these risk adjusted cash flows, the table below shows the sensitivity of all the Britvic Ireland impairment losses to each of the principal assumptions used: Change of Increase decrease in assumption applied impairment losses Assumption % m Discount rate 1% 8.8 Inflation rate 1% 9.0 Growth rate 1% 3.7 orchid goodwill The table below shows the sensitivity of the Orchid goodwill impairment loss to each of the principal assumptions used: Change of Increase decrease in assumption applied impairment losses Assumption % m Discount rate 1% 0.7 Inflation rate 1% 0.8 Growth rate 1% 0.4 other Other than those sensitivities outlined above, there are no further reasonably possible changes in key assumptions which would cause the value of the goodwill or any of the intangibles with indefinite lives to materially fall short of their carrying value.
Any changes in key assumptions relating to the intangibles recognised on the acquisition of Britvic France would be adjusted as part of the fair value adjustments detailed in note 15.
