Directors Report continued There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the company other than: Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the company require the approval of the company to deal in the companys ordinary shares.
Resolution 16, which will be proposed as a Special Resolution at the 2011 Annual General Meeting, will give the company authority to use its available cash resources to acquire up to 23,990,000 of its own shares in the market for either cancellation or to hold them as treasury shares.
The directors will only use this power after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels, and the overall position of the company.
The directors will only purchase such shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per share and the benefits for shareholders.
IFG Trust Jersey Limited, as trustee of the Britvic Employee Benefit Trust the Trustee, holds 0.10% of the issued share capital of the company, as at 1 December 2010, on trust for the benefit of the Executive Directors, senior executives and managers of the group.
A dividend waiver is in place in respect of the Trustees holding.
The Trustee is not permitted to vote on any unvested shares held in the trust unless expressly directed to do so by the company.
Under the rules of the Britvic Share Incentive Plan the Plan eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the company.
Plan shares are held in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited the Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the Trustees no vote is registered.
In addition, the Trustees do not vote on any unawarded shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at 1 December 2010, Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited held 2.41% of the issued share capital of the company.
The company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
There are no agreements between the company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the company.
Certain other indebtedness becomes repayable if a change of control leads to a downgrade in the credit rating of the company.
The companys agreements with PepsiCo are terminable upon a change of control.
The companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a Special Resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No amendments are proposed to be made to the existing Articles at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
FInancIal rIsk managEmEnt It is the groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to minimise the adverse fluctuations in the financial markets on the groups reported profitability and cash flows.
The specific policies for managing each of the groups main financial risk areas are detailed in the Treasury Management section of the Business Review on page 24.
DIrEctors statEmEnt as to DIsclosurE oF InFormatIon to auDItors So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by the Companies Act 2006 of which the Auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all steps that ought to be taken by a director to make themselves aware of and to establish that the Auditors are aware of any relevant audit information.
A copy of the financial statements is placed on the companys website.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of the directors.
The work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
goIng concErn In presenting the financial statements on a going concern basis, the directors have considered both the business activities and principal risks and uncertainties as set out in the Overview and Business Review on pages 1 to 29.
In addition, the directors have considered the following factors: the groups ability to generate cash flows, the financial resources available to it, headroom under bank covenants, and exposure to credit risk.
Based on the groups cash flow forecasts and projections, the board is satisfied that the group will be able to operate within the level of its facilities for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the group continues to apply the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
auDItors Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to accept reappointment as Auditors of the company and a resolution proposing their reappointment is contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and will be put to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the board Emma thomas company secretary 1 December 2010 34 Britvic plc Annual Report 2010
