NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
GeneRal infoRmation Britvic plc the company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
It is a public limited company domiciled in England & Wales and its ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Britvic plc and its subsidiaries together the group operate in the soft drinks manufacturing and distribution industry, principally in the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland and France.
The operating companies of the group are disclosed within note 32.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 1 December 2010.
2. statement of compliance The financial information has been prepared on the basis of applicable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, as they apply to the financial statements of the group.
3. accountinG policies basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
For further detail, please refer to note 33.
On conversion to IFRS on 3 October 2005, the group took the following exemptions available under IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: a Not to restate the comparative information disclosed in the 2005 financial statements being the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 2 October 2005 in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
b Not to restate business combinations occurring before 4 October 2004. c To recognise all actuarial gains and losses on pensions and other post-retirement benefits directly in shareholders equity at 4 October 2004. d Not to apply IFRS 2 Share-based Payment to grants of equity instruments on or before 7 November 2002 that had vested prior to 1 January 2005.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except where measurement of balances at fair value is required as explained below.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling.
basis of consolidation The consolidated financial information incorporates the financial information of Britvic plc and the entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries.
The group financial statements consolidate the accounts of Britvic plc and all its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 3 October 2010 in accordance with IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
While the original acquisition of Britannia Soft Drinks Limited was accounted for under the merger method, in subsequent financial periods the acquisition method of accounting has been used, under which the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Revenue recognition Revenue is the value of sales, excluding transactions with or between subsidiaries, and after deduction of sales related discounts and rebates, value added tax and other sales related taxes.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount can be measured reliably.
Sales related discounts are calculated based on the expected amounts necessary to meet claims by the groups customers in respect of these discounts and rebates.
