Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14. intanGible assets continued customer lists britvic france Customer lists recognised on the acquisition of Britvic France relate to those customer relationships acquired.
These intangible assets have been allocated useful economic lives of 20 years.
britvic ireland Customer lists represent those customer relationships acquired which are valued in respect of the grocery and wholesale businesses.
These customer lists have been allocated useful economic lives of between 10 and 20 years.
At 3 October 2010 these intangible assets have a remaining useful life of between 7 and 17 years.
Impairments have been taken in the current period in respect of these customer lists, as detailed in note 16. software costs Software is capitalised at cost.
These intangible assets have been assessed as having finite lives and are amortised using the straight-line method over a period of 3 to 7 years.
These assets are tested for impairment where an indicator of impairment arises.
As at 3 October 2010 these intangible assets have a remaining useful life of up to 7 years.
Goodwill Goodwill is not amortised.
Instead it is subject to an impairment review at each reporting date in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Details of the impairment losses recognised in the current period are detailed in note 16.
Goodwill was recognised on the acquisition of Britvic France in the current period.
Further details are provided in note 15.
Intangible assets recognised on the acquisition of Britvic Ireland and Britvic France are valued in euros and translated to sterling at the reporting date.
15. business combinations acquisition of britvic france On 28 May 2010, the group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of the companies detailed below for a cash consideration of 186.4m translated at 160.5m.
The acquisition is in line with the strategic direction of the group, specifically to increase its presence in Europe.
Company name Status Principal activity Star Command SAS Trading Holding company Fruit Entreprises SA Trading Holding company Fruit SAS Trading Manufacture and sale of juice-based soft drinks Bricfruit SAS Trading Manufacture and sale of juice-based soft drinks Unisource SAS Trading Manufacture and sale of juice-based soft drinks Teisseire SAS Trading Manufacture and sale of syrup-based soft drinks Teisseire Benelux SA Trading Marketing and distribution of syrup-based soft drinks From the date of acquisition to 3 October 2010, the acquired businesses contributed 85.2m to revenue and 24.1m to brand contribution for the period.
Britvic France had an operating cash inflow of 4.4m from acquisition to the year end.
Due to non coterminous year end dates and on the basis that pre-acquisition financial information in relation to Britvic France includes discontinued operations not acquired, it is impracticable to state what the contribution to revenue and net profit would have been if the business combination had been completed on the first day of the financial period.
Due to the timing of the acquisition of Britvic France, the initial fair value acquisition accounting has been determined provisionally.
In accordance with IFRS 3, adjustments to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed can be made during the twelve months from the date of acquisition.
The difference between the fair value of the consideration paid and the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Included in goodwill are certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due to their nature.
These items include the favourable market presence which Britvic France enjoys, an assembled workforce and anticipated future operating synergies from the combination.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The sterling carrying value of the net assets acquired shown in the table below has been calculated using the exchange rate on the date of acquisition which was 1: 1.1611.
