NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
GeneRal infoRmation Britvic plc the company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
It is a public limited company domiciled in England & Wales and its ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Britvic plc and its subsidiaries together the group operate in the soft drinks manufacturing and distribution industry, principally in the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland and France.
The operating companies of the group are disclosed within note 32.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 1 December 2010.
2. statement of compliance The financial information has been prepared on the basis of applicable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, as they apply to the financial statements of the group.
3. accountinG policies basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
For further detail, please refer to note 33.
On conversion to IFRS on 3 October 2005, the group took the following exemptions available under IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: a Not to restate the comparative information disclosed in the 2005 financial statements being the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 2 October 2005 in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
b Not to restate business combinations occurring before 4 October 2004. c To recognise all actuarial gains and losses on pensions and other post-retirement benefits directly in shareholders equity at 4 October 2004. d Not to apply IFRS 2 Share-based Payment to grants of equity instruments on or before 7 November 2002 that had vested prior to 1 January 2005.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except where measurement of balances at fair value is required as explained below.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling.
basis of consolidation The consolidated financial information incorporates the financial information of Britvic plc and the entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries.
The group financial statements consolidate the accounts of Britvic plc and all its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 3 October 2010 in accordance with IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
While the original acquisition of Britannia Soft Drinks Limited was accounted for under the merger method, in subsequent financial periods the acquisition method of accounting has been used, under which the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Revenue recognition Revenue is the value of sales, excluding transactions with or between subsidiaries, and after deduction of sales related discounts and rebates, value added tax and other sales related taxes.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount can be measured reliably.
Sales related discounts are calculated based on the expected amounts necessary to meet claims by the groups customers in respect of these discounts and rebates.
56 Britvic plc Annual Report 2010 3. accountinG policies continued property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost comprises the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of an asset, less its estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis, over the useful economic life of that asset as follows: Plant and machinery 3 to 20 years Vehicles included in plant and machinery 5 to 7 years Equipment in retail outlets included in fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 5 to 10 years Other fixtures and fittings included in fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 3 to 10 years Land is not depreciated.
Freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years.
Leasehold properties are depreciated over 50 years, or over the unexpired lease term when this is less than 50 years.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount, and are included in the income statement in the period of derecognition.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount.
Useful lives and residual amounts are reviewed annually and where adjustments are required these are made prospectively.
Goodwill Business combinations on or after 4 October 2004 have been accounted for under IFRS 3 using the acquisition method.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may be impaired.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the group of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combinations synergies by management.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the group of cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
intangible assets trademarks, franchise rights and customer lists Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at the fair value of consideration paid.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation or impairment losses.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside goodwill, at fair value at the date of acquisition, if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either definite or indefinite.
Amortisation is charged on assets with finite lives on a straight-line basis over a period appropriate to the assets useful life.
The carrying values of intangible assets with finite and indefinite lives are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are also tested for impairment annually either individually or at the cash generating unit level.
Such intangibles are not amortised.
The useful life of an intangible asset with an indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether indefinite life assessment continues to be supportable.
If not, the change in the useful life assessment from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
software costs Software expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after its technical feasibility and commercial viability can be demonstrated.
Acquired computer software licences and software developed in-house are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives of three to seven years.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2010 57 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3. accountinG policies continued impairment of assets The group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects senior managements estimate of the cost of capital.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Goodwill impairment losses cannot subsequently be reversed.
inventories and work in progress Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is determined using the weighted average cost method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
financial assets The group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each financial period end.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus directly attributable transaction costs.
The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
The group has financial assets that are classified as loans and receivables.
The group measures these as follows: loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit or loss or available for sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
derivative financial instruments and hedging The group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations.
All derivative financial instruments are initially recognised and subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is appropriate, the hedging relationship is documented at its inception.
This documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the income statement.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging relationship, as follows: cash flow hedges For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are then transferred to the income statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset or liability as above.
net investment hedges Financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges when they hedge the groups net investment in foreign operations.
The groups foreign currency borrowings qualify as hedging instruments that hedge foreign currency net investment balances.
Gains or losses on translation of borrowings are recognised in equity.
Upon disposal of the associated investment in foreign operations any cumulative gain or loss is recycled through the income statement.
fair value hedges For fair value hedges, the gain or loss on the fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
The gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk shall adjust the carrying amount of the hedged item and be recognised in the income statement.
If the hedge relationship was ineffective the hedged item would no longer be adjusted and the fair value gain or loss on the hedging instrument would continue to be recorded in the income statement.
58 Britvic plc Annual Report 2010 3. accountinG policies continued derecognition of financial instruments The derecognition of a financial instrument takes place when the group no longer controls the contractual rights that comprise the financial instrument, which is normally the case when the instrument is sold, or all the cash flows attributable to the instrument are passed through to an independent third party.
share-based payments The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted.
Fair value is determined by an external valuer using an appropriate pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares market conditions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the number of equity instruments that, in the opinion of the directors and based on the best available estimate at that date, will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described below.
The income statement charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
The group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2005. taxation The current income tax expense is based on taxable profits for the period, after any adjustments in respect of prior periods.
It is calculated using taxation rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and is measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
Provision is made for deferred tax liabilities, or credit taken for deferred tax assets, on all material temporary differences between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial statements.
The principal temporary differences arise from accelerated capital allowances, provisions for pensions and other post-retirement benefits, provisions for share-based payments and employee profit share schemes and other short-term temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability will be settled based on the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
pensions and post retirement benefits The group operates a number of pension schemes.
The Britvic Pension Plan BPP has both a defined benefit fund and a defined contribution fund.
The defined benefit section of the BPP was closed to new members on 1 August 2002, and since this date new employees have been eligible to join the defined contribution section of the BPP.
As a result of the acquisition of Britvic Ireland on 29 August 2007, in Northern Ireland the group inherited a further pension scheme in which its employees at the date of the transfer participated, the C&C Pension Fund.
The name of this scheme has subsequently been changed to the Britvic Northern Ireland Pension Plan BNIPP.
The BNIPP was closed to new members on 28 February 2006 and since this date new employees have been eligible to join a Stakeholder plan with Legal & General.
Since 1 September 2008, employees in the Republic of Ireland have been able to participate in two newly formed pension plans called the Britvic Ireland Defined Contribution Pension Plan and the Britvic Ireland Defined Benefit Pension Plan BIPP.
Under defined benefit pension plans, plan assets are measured at fair value and plan liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method and discounted at an interest rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
The service cost of providing pension benefits to employees for the period is charged to the income statement.
The cost of making improvements to pensions is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period during which the increase in benefits vests.
To the extent that the improvements in benefits vest immediately, the cost is recognised immediately.
These costs are recognised as an expense.
Past service costs are recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the vesting period or immediately if the benefits have vested.
When a settlement eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued or a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs the obligation and related plan assets are re-measured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss is recognised in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
A charge representing the unwinding of the discount on the plan liabilities during the year is included within administrative expenses.
A credit representing the expected return on the plan assets during the year is included within administrative expenses.
This credit is based on the market value of the plan assets, and expected rates of return, at the beginning of the year.
Actuarial gains and losses may result from: Differences between the expected return and the actual return on plan assets: differences between the actuarial assumptions underlying the plan liabilities and actual experience during the year: or changes in the actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the plan liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses, and taxation thereon, are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the defined benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds, less any past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price information and in the case of quoted securities is the published bid price.
For defined contribution plans, contributions payable for the year are charged to the income statement as an operating expense.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2010 59 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3. accountinG policies continued employee benefits Wages, salaries, bonuses and paid annual leave are accrued in the year in which the associated services are rendered by the employees of the group.
leases Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Leases in which the group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Lease incentives received are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the leases to which they relate.
cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, bank overdrafts repayable on demand are a component of cash and cash equivalents.
trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 30-90 day terms, are recognised at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Provision is made when collection of the full amount is no longer considered probable.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
interest bearing loans and borrowings Interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Finance costs arising from the outstanding loan balance and finance charges are charged to the income statement using an effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance income and finance cost.
foreign currencies functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling.
The presentation currency of the consolidated financial statements is the same as the functional currency of the ultimate parent company.
transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the income statement other than those differences relating to financial instruments treated as a net investment hedge.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the income statement.
foreign operations The income statement and statement of cash flows of foreign operations are translated at the average rate of exchange during the period.
The balance sheet is translated at the rate ruling at the reporting date.
Exchange differences arising on opening net assets and arising on the translation of results at an average rate compared to a closing rate are both dealt with through reserves or equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation accumulated exchange differences previously recognised in equity are included in the consolidated income statement.
segmental reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the board of directors.
issued share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
60 Britvic plc Annual Report 2010 3. accountinG policies continued nature and purpose of other reserves share premium account The share premium account is used to record the excess of proceeds over nominal value on the issue of shares.
own shares reserve The own shares account is used to record purchases by the group of its own shares, which will be distributed to employees as and when share awards made under the Britvic employee share plans vest.
share scheme reserve The share scheme reserve is used to record the movements in equity corresponding to the cost recognised in respect of equity-settled share based payment transactions and the subsequent settlement of any awards that vest either by issue or purchase of the groups shares.
hedging reserve The hedging reserve records movements in the fair value of forward exchange contracts and interest rate and cross currency swaps.
translation reserve The translation reserve includes cumulative net exchange differences on translation into the presentational currency sterling of items recorded in group entities with a non-sterling functional currency net of amounts accounted for as net investment hedges.
merger reserve The movement on merger reserve was the result of the non pre-emptive share placement which took place on 21 May 2010.
It was executed using a structure which created a merger reserve arising under Section 612-3 of Companies Act 2006.
Further details are given in note 22. own shares The cost of own shares held in employee share trusts and in treasury is deducted from shareholders equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, the fair value of any consideration received is also included in shareholders equity.
exceptional and other items The group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement those significant items of income and expense which, because of the nature and infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess trends in financial performance more readily.
Other items include fair value movements on financial instruments where hedge accounting cannot be applied.
These items have been included within exceptional and other items because they are one off in nature and non-cash.
Key judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that effect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
However, the nature of estimation means that the actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
In the process of applying the groups accounting policies, management has made the following judgements which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
post retirement benefits The determination of the pension and other post retirement benefits cost and obligation is based on assumptions determined with independent actuarial advice.
The assumptions include discount rate, inflation, pension and salary increases, expected return on scheme assets, mortality and other demographic assumptions.
These key assumptions are disclosed in note 24. impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives Determining whether goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the goodwill intangible asset has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires an estimate of the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Further details, including sensitivity analysis of key assumptions, are given in note 16. deferred tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities require managements judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, significant judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised which is dependent on the generation of sufficient future taxable profits.
The group recognises deferred tax assets to the extent it is probable that the benefit will be realised.
cross currency interest rate swaps The group measures cross currency interest rate swaps at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The fair value represents the net present value of the difference between the projected cash flows at the swap contract rate and the relevant exchange interest rate for the period from the balance sheet date to the contracted expiry date.
The calculation therefore uses estimates of present value, future foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
other The group also makes estimations and judgements in the valuation of share-based payments.
However, the value of this item is such that any variation in the estimates used is unlikely to have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2010 61 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3. accountinG policies continued new standards adopted in the current period IAS 1 Revised Presentation of financial statements was adopted by the group on 28 September 2009, effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The group has elected to present two performance statements: an income statement and a statement of comprehensive income.
The consolidated financial information has been prepared under the revised disclosure requirements.
There was no impact on the results or net assets of the group.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, replaced IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for resource allocation and assessing performance of the operating segments.
Refer to note 4 for information regarding the determination of the groups operating segments.
IFRS 7 Amended Financial instruments: Disclosure adopted on 28 September 2009, effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2009, requires enhanced disclosures about fair value measurements and liquidity risk.
Adoption of the amendment does not require the restatement of comparative information.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised applies prospectively to all business combinations on or after 28 September 2009.
The key features of the revised IFRS 3 include a requirement for acquisition-related costs to be expensed and not included in the purchase price: and for contingent consideration to be recognised at fair value on the acquisition date with subsequent changes recognised in the income statement and not as a change to goodwill.
The standard also changes the treatment of non-controlling interests formerly minority interests with an option to recognise these at full fair value as at the acquisition date and a requirement for previously held non-controlling interests to be fair valued as at the date control is obtained, with gains and losses recognised in the income statement.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised.
The revisions to this standard have not had any impact on the consolidated financial statements.
The group also adopted IFRS 2 Amendment: Vesting conditions and cancellations and IAS 39 Amendments: Eligible hedged items, these did not have a material impact on the group.
new standards and interpretations not applied The group has not applied the following IFRSs, which may be applicable to the group, that have been issued but are not yet effective: Effective date periods commencing international financial Reporting standards ifRs IFRS 2 Amendment Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions 1 January 2010 IFRS 7 Amendment to IFRS 7 Disclosures Transfers of financial assets 1 July 2011 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classification and measurement 1 January 2013 international accounting standards ias IAS 24 Amendment to IAS 24 Disclosure requirements for government related entities and definition 1 January 2011 of a related party international financial Reporting interpretations committee ifRic IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments 1 July 2010 IFRIC 14 Amendment Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement 1 January 2011 The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards will have a material impact on the groups reported income or net assets in the period of adoption.
