5. exceptional and otheR items continued d The onerous leases relate to two sites within the Ireland business segment where, in addition to accruals made in previous years, incremental future lease commitments have been accrued for in the current year based on our experience of the deterioration in the Irish property market during 2009 10.
The properties relate to depot space which is no longer required as a result of a project which has delivered the synergies in the Ireland segment.
The prior year cost also includes an accrual in respect of the rationalisation of office space in the GB segment.
e In the prior y ear, cost of incentive schemes directly associated with the flotation included all-employee share schemes and management incentives.
The cost related to a transitional award granted to members of both the senior leadership team and senior management team shortly after flotation, the purpose of which was to compensate these individuals for the loss of existing long-term incentive bonuses which were discontinued upon flotation.
f In the prior year, costs in relation to the purchase of Britvic Ireland related to the costs incurred in acquiring the business which cannot be included in the cost of the business combination and therefore cannot be capitalised.
Costs related to professional fees incurred in respect of establishing new pension schemes in the Britvic Ireland business.
g Other f air value movements can be analysed as follows: The fair value movement of financial instruments where hedge accounting cannot be applied: and The amortisation of fair value adjustments applied on the acquisition of Britvic France see note 15.
Specifically this relates to: The fair value movement of financial instruments where hedge accounting cannot be applied: and The amortisation of the inventory fair value adjustment of 2.4m which recognised the profit margin of the inventory acquired as part of the business combination.
Details of the tax implications of exceptional items are given in note 10a.
6. opeRatinG pRofit This is stated after charging: 2010 2009 m m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 509.2 450.9 Write-down of inventories to net realisable value 2.9 2.6 Research and development expenditure written off 1.7 1.5 Net foreign currency differences 4.0 3.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 32.9 30.1 Amortisation of intangible assets 9.5 8.6 Operating lease payments minimum lease payments 14.9 16.3 7. auditoRs RemuneRation 2010 2009 m m Auditors remuneration audit of the group financial statements 0.4 0.3 Other fees to auditors Local statutory audits for subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Other services 0.2 The fees in the other services category are 0.15m of audit related fees and 0.05m of tax related fees.
