Consolidated statement of changes in equity Other reserves Equity Shareholders Called Perpetual portion Regulatory equity up preference of Capital Available general Cash flow Foreign excluding For the year to 31 March share share Share Treasury convertible reserve for sale risk hedge currency Retained minority Minority Total 000 capital capital premium shares instruments account reserve reserve reserve reserve income interests interests equity At 1 April 2008 177 151 1 632 634 114 904 2 191 6 933 8 265 82 018 122 743 433 012 1 911 204 298 815 2 210 019 Movement in reserves 1 April 2008 31 March 2009 Total comprehensive income for the year 27 274 4 223 459 16 293 158 664 284 916 450 797 21 285 472 082 Share based payments adjustments 92 848 92 848 92 848 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 143 995 143 995 143 995 Dividends paid to perpetual preference shareholders 47 503 47 503 47 503 Issue of ordinary shares 13 91 751 91 764 91 764 Conversion of convertible instruments 17 381 2 191 15 190 Issue of equity by subsidiaries 3 486 3 486 Movement of treasury shares 58 164 58 164 58 164 Transfer to capital reserves 4 949 4 949 Transfer from regulatory general risk reserve 58 990 58 990 At 31 March 2009 190 151 1 769 040 173 068 11 882 12 488 23 487 16 293 35 921 658 129 2 296 951 323 586 2 620 537 Movement in reserves 1 April 2009 31 March 2010 Total comprehensive income for the year 37 774 11 134 4 067 10 309 172 444 338 979 574 707 9 918 584 625 Share based payments adjustments 56 668 56 668 274 56 942 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 91 946 91 946 91 946 Dividends paid to perpetual preference shareholders 43 860 43 860 43 860 Dividends paid to minority interests 578 578 Issue of ordinary shares 5 84 173 84 178 84 178 Issue of perpetual preference shares 1 40 868 40 869 40 869 7 Share issue expenses 3 559 3 559 3 559 Issue of equity by subsidiaries 3 547 3 547 Acquisition of minority interests 132 132 Movement of treasury shares 40 974 40 974 40 974 Transfer to capital reserves 42 42 Transfer to regulatory general risk reserve 6 213 6 213 Transfer from share based payments reserve to treasury shares 65 655 65 655 At 31 March 2010 195 152 1 928 296 66 439 11 924 1 354 33 767 5 984 208 365 846 060 2 954 982 336 879 3 291 861 Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 292 Other reserves Equity Shareholders Called Perpetual portion Regulatory equity up preference of Capital Available general Cash flow Foreign excluding For the year to 31 March share share Share Treasury convertible reserve for sale risk hedge currency Retained minority Minority Total 000 capital capital premium shares instruments account reserve reserve reserve reserve income interests interests equity At 1 April 2008 177 151 1 632 634 114 904 2 191 6 933 8 265 82 018 122 743 433 012 1 911 204 298 815 2 210 019 Movement in reserves 1 April 2008 31 March 2009 Total comprehensive income for the year 27 274 4 223 459 16 293 158 664 284 916 450 797 21 285 472 082 Share based payments adjustments 92 848 92 848 92 848 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 143 995 143 995 143 995 Dividends paid to perpetual preference shareholders 47 503 47 503 47 503 Issue of ordinary shares 13 91 751 91 764 91 764 Conversion of convertible instruments 17 381 2 191 15 190 Issue of equity by subsidiaries 3 486 3 486 Movement of treasury shares 58 164 58 164 58 164 Transfer to capital reserves 4 949 4 949 Transfer from regulatory general risk reserve 58 990 58 990 At 31 March 2009 190 151 1 769 040 173 068 11 882 12 488 23 487 16 293 35 921 658 129 2 296 951 323 586 2 620 537 Movement in reserves 1 April 2009 31 March 2010 Total comprehensive income for the year 37 774 11 134 4 067 10 309 172 444 338 979 574 707 9 918 584 625 Share based payments adjustments 56 668 56 668 274 56 942 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 91 946 91 946 91 946 Dividends paid to perpetual preference shareholders 43 860 43 860 43 860 Dividends paid to minority interests 578 578 Issue of ordinary shares 5 84 173 84 178 84 178 Issue of perpetual preference shares 1 40 868 40 869 40 869 7 Share issue expenses 3 559 3 559 3 559 Issue of equity by subsidiaries 3 547 3 547 Acquisition of minority interests 132 132 Movement of treasury shares 40 974 40 974 40 974 Transfer to capital reserves 42 42 Transfer to regulatory general risk reserve 6 213 6 213 Transfer from share based payments reserve to treasury shares 65 655 65 655 At 31 March 2010 195 152 1 928 296 66 439 11 924 1 354 33 767 5 984 208 365 846 060 2 954 982 336 879 3 291 861 Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 293 Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies Basis of presentation The group financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union EU which comply with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
At 31 March 2010, IFRS standards as endorsed by the EU are identical to current IFRSs applicable to the group.
The group financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for investment properties, available for sale investments, derivative financial instruments, financial assets and financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss or subject to hedge accounting, liabilities for cash-settled share-based payments and pension fund surpluses and deficits that have been measured at fair value.
Accounting policies applied are consistent with those of the prior year, except for the adoption of the following amendments: IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments, an amendment to IFRS 7 The group has applied the improvement that requires enhanced disclosures about financial instruments.
The amended standard requires additional disclosure about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised Adoption of this standard has resulted in the reformatting of the statement of total recognised gains and losses into a statement of comprehensive income.
These changes have had no impact on the recognition and measurement policies applied by the group.
Restatements The group applies a policy of offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities when there is both an intention to settle on a net basis or simultaneously and a legal right to offset exists.
With regard to derivative instruments, the group identified that in certain isolated instances offsetting was applied in prior financial periods to derivative assets and liabilities where it is not market practice to settle net, whilst the legal right to settle net exists.
The impact of this restatement on the balance sheet of the two prior years is noted below: '000 31 Mar 2009 31 Mar 2008 7 Restated Derivative financial instrument assets 1 843 143 1 425 587 Derivative financial instrument liabilities 1 456 561 1 001 900 As previously reported Derivative financial instrument assets 1 582 908 1 305 264 Derivative financial instrument liabilities 1 196 326 881 577 Change to previously reported Derivative financial instrument assets 260 235 120 323 Derivative financial instrument liabilities 260 235 120 323 On the basis that the above restatements had no impact on equity, nor the net cash position and materiality, a balance sheet for 2008 has not been presented.
Basis of consolidation Investec consists of two separate legal entities, being Investec plc and Investec Limited that operate under a dual listed company DLC structure.
The effect of the DLC structure is that Investec plc and its subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its subsidiaries operate together as a single economic entity, with neither assuming a dominant role and accordingly are reported as a single reporting entity under IFRS.
All subsidiaries and special purpose vehicles in which the group holds more than one half of the voting rights or over which it has the ability to control either directly or in substance are consolidated from the effective dates of acquisition that is from when control exists and up to the effective dates of loss of control, except entities which are classified as non-current assets held for sale.
Subsidiaries classified as non-current assets held for sale are consolidated in one line item as discontinued operations.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 294 Entities, other than subsidiary undertakings, in which the group exercises significant influence over operating and financial policies, are treated as associates.
In the group accounts, associates are accounted for using the equity method from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases, except as noted below.
The combined consolidated financial statements include the attributable share of the results and reserves of associated undertakings.
The groups interests in associated undertakings are included in the consolidated balance sheet at cost plus the post acquisition changes in the groups share of the net assets of the associate.
In circumstances where associates or joint venture holdings arise in which the group has no strategic intention, these investments are classified as venture capital holdings and are designated as held at fair value through profit and loss.
All intergroup balances, transactions and unrealised gains and losses within the group are eliminated to the extent that they do not reflect an impairment to the asset.
Segmental reporting An operating segment is a component of the group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the groups other components, whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the board and for which discrete financial information is available.
The groups segmental reporting is presented in the form of a business analysis.
The business analysis is presented in terms of the groups six principal business divisions and Group Services and Other Activities.
A geographical analysis is also presented in terms of the main geographies in which the group operates representing the groups exposure to various economic environments.
For further detail on the groups segmental reporting basis refer to pages 53 to 101 of the Divisional review section of the annual report.
7 Goodwill Goodwill represents the net excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of net identifiable assets of entities acquired.
Goodwill is capitalised and tested for impairment at balance sheet dates or when there is an indication of impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purposes of testing impairment based on the synergies expected in the business combination, with any impairments arising being recognised immediately in the income statement.
Impairments recognised are not reversed in subsequent periods.
In circumstances where the group acquires an interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of the acquisition, the group reassess the identification and measurement of all assets and liabilities including contingent liabilities following which any remaining excess is recognised immediately in profit and loss.
Goodwill arising is denominated in the functional currency of the foreign operation and is translated to the presentation currency of the group pound sterling at the applicable closing rate.
Goodwill arising on investment in associates is included within the investment in associates.
Share-based payments to employees The group engages in equity-settled share-based payments and in certain limited circumstances cash-settled share-based payments in respect of services received from employees.
The fair value of the services received in respect of equity-settled share-based payments is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares or share options on the date of grant to the employee.
The cost of the share-based payment, together with a corresponding increase in equity, is recognised over the vesting period of the grant in the income statement on a straight-line basis, based on an estimate of the amount of instruments that will eventually vest.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 295 Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies continued A liability and expense in respect of cash-settled share-based payments is recognised over the vesting period of the grant in the income statement on a straight-line basis, based on the fair value of the instrument that will eventually vest.
The liability is recognised at the current fair value at each balance sheet date, based on an estimate of the number of instruments that will eventually vest.
Subsequent to vesting the liability is measured at fair value, with gains and losses recognised in the income statement until such time as the liability is settled.
Fair value measurements are based on option pricing models, taking into account the risk-free interest rate, volatility of the underlying equity instrument, expected dividends and current share prices.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, the minimum expense recognised in staff costs is the expense as if the terms had not been modified.
An additional expense is recognised for any modification which increases the total fair value of the share-based payment arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
Foreign currency transactions and foreign operations The presentation currency of the group is Pounds Sterling, being the functional currency of Investec plc.
The functional currency of Investec Limited is South African Rand.
Foreign operations are subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures or branches of the group, the activities of which are based in a functional currency other than that of reporting entity.
The functional currency of group entities is determined based on the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
On consolidation, the results and financial position of foreign operations are translated into the presentation currency of the group as follows: Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet Income and expense items are translated at exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income foreign currency translation reserve, which is recognised in the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation Cash flow items are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction.
7 Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency of the entity in which the transaction arises based on rates of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date foreign currency items are translated as follows: Foreign currency monetary items other than monetary items that form part of the net investment in a foreign operation are translated using closing rates, with gains and losses recognised in the income statement Exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the net investment in a foreign operation are determined using closing rates and recognised as a separate component of equity foreign currency translation reserve upon consolidation, and is recognised in the income statement upon disposal of the net investment Non-monetary items that are measured at historical costs are translated using the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction.
Revenue recognition Revenue consists of interest income, fee and commission income and principal transactions.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Fees charged on lending transactions are included in the effective yield calculation to the extent that they form an integral part of the effective interest yield, but excludes those fees earned for a separately identifiable significant act, which are recognised upon completion of the act.
Fees and commissions charged in lieu of interest are recognised as income as part of the effective interest rate on the underlying loan.
The effective interest method is based on the estimated life of the underlying instrument, and, where this estimate is not readily available, the contractual life.
Fee and commission income includes fees earned from providing advisory services as well as portfolio management.
All such fee and commission income is recognised as revenue when the related services are performed.
Fee and commission income is only recognised when it can be estimated reliably.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 296 Principal transaction income includes trading profits, dividend income, gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities designated as held at fair value and fair value gains and losses on investment properties.
Dividend income is recognised when the groups right to receive payment is established.
Trading profits are shown net of the funding cost of the underlying positions and includes the unrealised profits on trading portfolios, which are marked to market daily.
Equity investments received in lieu of corporate finance fees are included in trading securities and valued accordingly.
Funding costs allocated against trading profits are disclosed in note 8.
Included in other operating income is revenue from consolidated private equity investments.
Operating costs associated with these investments are included in administration expenses.
Financial instruments Financial instruments are initially recognised at their fair value plus, for financial assets or financial liabilities not at fair value through profit and loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial assets or financial liabilities.
Regular way purchase and sales transactions in respect of financial assets that require delivery of a financial instrument within the time frame established by market convention are recorded at trade date.
Financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit and loss Financial instruments held at fair value through profit and loss include all instruments classified as held as trading and those instruments designated as held at fair value through profit and loss.
Financial instruments classified as held for trading or designated as held at fair value through profit and loss are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
Financial instruments are classified as trading when they are held with the intention of short-term disposal, held with intention of generating short-term profits, or are derivatives which are not designated as part of effective hedges.
Financial instruments designated as held at fair value through profit and loss are designated as such on initial recognition of the instrument and remain in this classification until derecognition.
In certain instances debt instruments which contain equity features are 7 designated as held at fair value through profit and loss.
Financial assets and liabilities are designated as held at fair value through profit and loss only if: It eliminates or significantly reduces an inconsistent measurement or recognition that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities or recognising the gains and losses on them on different bases: or A group of financial assets, financial liabilities or both is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the group is provided internally on that basis to the groups key management personnel: and If a contract contains one or more embedded derivatives which significantly modifies the cash flows that would be required by the contract and is not clearly prohibited from separation from the host contract and the group has designated the entire hybrid contract as a financial instrument at fair value through profit and loss.
Held-to-maturity financial assets Held-to-maturity financial assets are non-derivative financial instruments with fixed or determinable payments and maturity dates which the group has the intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Held-to-maturity assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less impairment losses.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees that are an integral part of the effective interest rate.
The amortisation is included in interest income in the income statement.
The losses arising from impairment of such investments are recognised in the income statement.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 297 Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies continued Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and exclude the following: Those that the group intends to trade in, which are classified as held for trading, and those that the group designates as at fair value through profit and loss Those that the group designates as available for sale Those for which the holder may not recover substantially all of its initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration, which are accounted for at fair value through profit and loss.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, less impairment losses.
The effective interest rate represents the rate that exactly discounts future projected cash flows, through the expected life of the financial instrument, to the net carrying amount of the financial instrument.
Included in the calculation of the effective interest rate is any discount or premium on acquisition and fees that are an integral part of the effective interest rate.
Losses arising from impairment of such investments are recognised in the income statement line Impairment losses on loans and advances.
Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets are those which are designated as such or do not qualify to be classified as designated at fair value through profit or loss, held-to-maturity, or loans and receivables.
They include strategically held equity instruments that are not associates, joint ventures or subsidiaries of the group.
Further, certain loans and receivables that are held at fair value due to being quoted on an active market, which are neither actively traded nor held to maturity instruments, are classified as available for sale financial assets.
Financial assets classified as available for sale are measured at fair value on the balance sheet, with unrealised gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income.
When the asset is disposed of, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement.
Interest earned whilst holding available for sale financial assets is reported as interest income using the effective interest rate.
Dividends earned whilst holding available for sale financial assets are recognised in the income statement when the right of payment has been established.
7 If an available for sale instrument is determined to be impaired, the respective cumulative unrealised losses previously recognised in equity are included in the income statement in the period in which the impairment is identified.
Impairments on available for sale equity instruments are not reversed once recognised in the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available for sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed, limited to the impairment value previously recognised in the income statement.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as non-trading, held for trading or designated as held at fair value through profit and loss.
Non-trading liabilities are recorded at amortised cost applying the effective interest rate method.
Held for trading liabilities or liabilities designated as held at fair value through profit and loss, are measured at fair value.
Valuation of financial instruments All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value.
On initial recognition, the fair value of a financial instrument is the transaction price unless it is determined appropriate that the fair value of a financial instrument is more accurately determined by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument i. e. without modification or repackaging or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets.
In circumstances where unobservable data has a significant impact on the valuation of a financial instrument, the entire difference between the model determined fair value and the transaction price is not recognised on initial recognition.
The difference arising is recognised in the income statement over the life of the transaction, or when inputs become observable, or when the transaction is effectively closed out.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 298 Subsequent to initial recognition the following financial instruments are measured at fair value: Fixed maturity securities classified as trading, held at fair value through profit or loss and available for sale Equity securities Private equity investments Derivative positions Loans and advances designated as held at fair value through profit and loss Loans and advances designated as available for sale Financial liabilities classified as trading or designated as held at fair value through profit and loss.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair value of financial instruments quoted in an active market is based on published price quotations.
Where market prices are not available, fair value is determined by discounting the expected cash flows, using market interest rates taking into account the credit quality and duration of the investment.
In certain instances model pricing may be used to determine fair values.
For private equity investments that are not publicly traded, management uses comparisons to similar listed companies, relevant third party arms length transactions and other data specific to the investment.
Impairments of financial assets held at amortised cost Financial assets carried at amortised cost are impaired if there is objective evidence that the group would not receive cash flows according to the original contractual terms.
Financial assets are assessed for objective evidence of impairment at least at each balance sheet reporting date.
The test for impairment is based either on specific financial assets or collectively on a portfolio of similar, homogeneous assets.
Over and above individual collective impairments raised at specific portfolio levels, the group has implemented a collective impairment allowance at a central level within the Group Services and Other business segment that takes into account macro economic factors, mainly driven by data related to the prevailing credit markets and which indicate incurred but not specifically identified losses across the loan portfolios that is, exposures in all business segments.
Assets specifically identified as impaired are excluded from the collective assessment.
Impairments are credited to an allowance account which is carried against the carrying value of financial assets.
Interest continues to be accrued on the reduced carrying amount based on the original effective interest rate of the asset.
Loans together with the associated 7 allowance are written off when there is no realistic prospect of future recovery and all collateral has been realised or has been transferred to the group.
An allowance for impairment is only reversed when there is objective evidence that the credit quality has improved to the extent that there is reasonable assurance of timely collection of principal and interest in terms of the original contractual agreement.
The impairment is calculated as the difference between the carrying value of the asset and the expected cash flows including net proceeds on realisation of collateral discounted at the original effective rate.
To cater for any shortfall between regulatory provision requirements in the respective jurisdictions and impairments based on the principles above, a transfer is made from distributable to non-distributable reserves, being the regulatory general risk reserve.
The non-distributable regulatory risk reserve ensures that minimum regulatory provisioning requirements are maintained.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or a portion thereof, is derecognised when the groups rights to cash flows has expired: or when the group has transferred its rights to cash flows relating to the financial assets, including the transfer of substantially all the risk and rewards associated with the financial assets or when control over the financial assets has passed.
A financial liability is derecognised when it is extinguished, that is when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expired.
Reclassification of financial instruments The bank may reclassify, in certain circumstances, non-derivative financial assets out of the Held-for-trading category and into the Available for sale, Loans and receivables, or Held-to maturity categories.
It may also reclassify, in certain circumstances, financial instruments out of the Available for sale category and into the Loans and receivables category.
Reclassifications are recorded at fair value at the date of reclassification, which becomes the new amortised cost.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 299 Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies continued Derivative instruments All derivative instruments of the group are recorded on balance sheet at fair value.
Positive and negative fair values are reported as assets and liabilities respectively and are offset when there is both an intention to settle net and a legal right to offset exists.
Derivative positions are entered into either for trading purposes or as part of the groups asset and liability management activities to manage exposures to interest rate and foreign currency risks.
Both realised and unrealised profits and losses arising on derivatives are recognised in the income statement as part of trading income other than circumstances in which cash flow hedging is applied as detailed below.
Derivative instruments transacted as economic hedges but which do not qualify for hedge accounting and derivatives that are entered into for trading purposes are treated in the same way as instruments that are held for trading.
Hedge accounting The group applies either fair value or cash flow hedge accounting when the transactions meet the specified hedge accounting criteria.
To qualify for hedge accounting treatment, the group ensures that all of the following conditions are met: At inception of the hedge the group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument s and hedged item s including the risk management objectives and the strategy in undertaking the hedge transaction The hedge is expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting, that is within a range of 80% to 125%, changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the originally documented risk management strategy for that particular hedging relationship For cash flow hedges, a forecasted transaction that is the subject of the hedge must be highly probable and must present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect profit and loss The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured, i. e. the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item that are attributable to the hedged risk and the fair value of the hedging instrument can be reliably measured The hedge effectiveness is assessed on an ongoing basis and determined actually to have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which the hedge was designated.
7 Hedge accounting is discontinued when it is determined that the instrument ceases to be highly effective as a hedge: the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised: when the hedge item matures or is sold or repaid: or when a forecasted transaction is no longer deemed highly probable.
For qualifying fair value hedges, the change in fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
Changes in fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk are also recognised in the income statement.
For qualifying cash flow hedges in respect of non-financial assets and liabilities, the change in fair value of the hedging instrument, relating to the effective portion is initially recognised in comprehensive income and is included in the initial cost of any asset liability recognised or in all other cases released to the income statement when the hedged firm commitment or forecasted transaction affects net profit.
If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, the balance included in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income statement immediately and recognised in principal transactions.
For qualifying cash flow hedges in respect of financial assets and liabilities, the change in fair value of the hedging instrument, which represents an effective hedge, is initially recognised in equity and is released to the income statement in the same period during which the relevant financial asset or liability affects profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is immediately recognised in the income statement.
Embedded derivatives To the extent that a derivative may be embedded in a host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in the income statement, the embedded derivative is separated from the host contract and accounted for as a standalone derivative if and only if: The economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and: A separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the definition of a derivative.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 300 Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are offset when there is both an intention to settle on a net basis or simultaneously and a legal right to offset exists.
Issued debt and equity financial instruments Financial instruments issued by the group are classified as liabilities if they contain an obligation to transfer economic benefits.
Financial instruments issued by the group are classified as equity where they confer on the holder a residual interest in the group, and the group has no obligation to deliver either cash or another financial asset to the holder.
The components of compound issued financial instruments are accounted for separately with the liability component separated first and any residual amount being allocated to the equity component.
Equity instruments issued by subsidiaries of Investec plc or Investec Limited are recorded as minority interests on balance sheet.
Equity instruments are initially measured net of directly attributable issue costs.
Treasury shares represent issued equity repurchased by the group which has not been cancelled.
Treasury shares are deducted from shareholders equity and represent the purchase consideration, including directly attributable costs.
Where treasury shares are subsequently sold or reissued, net proceeds received are included in shareholders equity.
Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as a deduction from equity at the earlier of payment date or the date that it is approved by Investec plc in relation to dividends declared by Investec plc and Investec Limited in relation to dividends declared by Investec Limited shareholders.
Sale and repurchase agreements including securities borrowing and lending Where securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them, they remain on balance sheet.
Proceeds received are recorded as a liability on balance sheet under Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent.
Securities that are purchased under a commitment to resell the securities at a future date are not recognised on the balance sheet.
The consideration paid is recognised as an asset under Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed.
The difference between the sale and repurchase prices is treated as interest expense and is accrued over the life of the agreement using the effective interest rate method.
7 Securities borrowing transactions that are not cash collateralised are not included in the balance sheet.
Securities lending and borrowing transactions which are cash collateralised are accounted for in the same manner as securities sold or purchased subject to repurchase commitments.
Financial guarantees Financial guarantees are initially recognised at fair value, being the premium received.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the liability under each guarantee is measured at the higher of the amortised premium and the best estimate of expenditure required to settle any financial obligation arising as a result of the guarantee.
Subsequent to initial measurement all changes in balance sheet carrying value are recognised in the income statement.
Installment credit, leases and rental agreements A finance lease is a lease that transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset.
An operating lease is a lease other than a financial lease.
Where classified as a finance lease, amounts outstanding on these contracts, net of unearned finance charges, are included in loans and advances where Investec is the lessor and included in liabilities where Investec is the lessee.
Finance charges on finance leases and installment credit transactions are credited or debited to income in proportion to the capital balances outstanding at the rate implicit in the agreement.
Where classified as operating leases, rentals payable receivable are charged credited in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rentals if any are accrued to the income statement when incurred.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 301 Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies continued Property and equipment Property and equipment are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairments.
Cost is the cash equivalent paid, or the fair value of the consideration given to acquire an asset and includes other expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
Depreciation is provided on the depreciable amount of each component on a straight-line basis over the anticipated useful life of the asset.
The depreciable amount related to each asset is determined as the difference between the cost and the residual value of the asset.
The residual value is the estimated amount, net of disposal costs that the group would currently obtain from the disposal of an asset in similar age and condition as expected at the end of its useful life.
The current and comparative annual depreciation rates for each class of property and equipment is as follows: Computer and related equipment 20% 33% Motor vehicles 20% 25% Furniture and fittings 10% 20% Freehold buildings 2% Leasehold improvements Leasehold improvements depreciation rates are determined by reference to the appropriate useful life of its separate components, limited to the period of the lease.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land, however, similar to other property related assets, it is subject to impairment testing when deemed necessary.
Routine servicing and maintenance of assets are expensed as incurred.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised if it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the group.
7 Investment property Properties held by the group which is held for capital appreciation or rental yield are classified as investment properties.
Investment properties are carried on balance sheet at fair value, with fair value gains and losses recognised in the income statement under Principal transactions.
Fair value of investment property is calculated by taking into account the expected rental stream associated with the property, and is supported by market evidence.
Trading properties Trading properties are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Impairment of non-financial assets At each balance sheet date the group reviews the carrying value of non-financial assets, other than investment property and deferred tax assets for indication of impairment.
The recoverable amount, being the higher of fair value less cost to sell and value in use, is determined for any assets for which an indication of impairment is identified.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is less than its carrying value, the carrying value of the asset is reduced to its recoverable value.
Impairment losses are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they are identified.
Reversal of impairment losses is recognised in income in the period in which the reversal is identified, to the extent that the asset is not revalued to a carrying value that would have been calculated without impairment.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 302 Trust and fiduciary activities The group acts as a trustee or in other fiduciary capacities that result in the holding, placing or managing of assets for the account of and at the risk of clients.
As these are not assets of the group, they are not reflected on the balance sheet but are included at market value as part of assets under administration.
Taxation and deferred taxation Current tax payable is provided on taxable profits at rates that are enacted or substantively enacted and applicable to the relevant period.
Deferred taxation is provided using the balance sheet method on temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance sheet and its tax base, except where such temporary differences arise from: The initial recognition of goodwill The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction has no effect on profit or loss In respect of temporary differences associated with the investments in subsidiaries and associates, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets or liabilities are measured using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the deferred tax asset can be utilised.
Items recognised directly in comprehensive income are net of related current and deferred taxation.
Insurance contracts 77 Insurance contracts are those contracts in which the group assumes significant insurance risk.
The deposit components of insurance contracts are unbundled and accounted for separately.
Insurance premiums are recognised in income in the period in which the group is entitled to the premium.
Insurance claims are recognised in the income statement in the period in which a contractual obligation arises for the group to make payment under an insurance contract.
Reinsurance assets and liabilities and associated premiums claims are not offset in the income statement or balance sheet.
Insurance liabilities are measured at their actuarial values, and are tested for adequacy on an annual basis.
Any deficiency identified is recognised in the income statement.
Employee benefits The group operates various defined contribution schemes and two closed defined benefit schemes.
In respect of the defined contribution scheme all employer contributions are charged to income, as incurred in accordance with the rules of the scheme, and included under staff costs.
The assets of the defined benefit schemes are measured at their market value at the balance sheet date and the liabilities of the schemes are measured using the projected unit credit method.
The discount rate used to measure the schemes liabilities is the current rate of return on an AA corporate bond at the balance sheet date of equivalent term and currency to the liabilities.
The extent to which the schemes assets exceed or fall short of the schemes liabilities is shown as a surplus or deficit in the balance sheet to the extent that it is considered recoverable.
Actuarial gains and losses related to the defined benefit asset or liability are recognised immediately directly in comprehensive income.
The group has no liabilities for other post retirement benefits.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 303 Investec plc and Investec Limited significant accounting policies continued Intangible assets Intangible assets are recorded at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairments.
For intangible assets with a finite life, amortisation is provided on the depreciable amount of each intangible asset on a straight-line basis over the anticipated useful life of the asset currently three to eight years.
The depreciable amount related to each intangible asset is determined as the difference between the cost and the residual value of the asset.
The residual value is the estimated amount, net of disposal costs, which the group would currently obtain from the disposal of an intangible asset in similar age and condition as expected at the end of its useful life.
Intangible assets with an indefinite life are not amortised, however they are tested for impairment on an annual basis.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs in respect of property developments that take a substantial period of time to develop for sale are capitalised.
Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount, and are recognised as soon as the group has created a legal or constructive obligation which will lead to an outflow of economic resources to settle the obligation as a result of a past event.
Contingent assets and contingent liabilities are not recognised on balance sheet.
Standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective The following standards and interpretations, which have been issued but are not yet effective, are applicable to the group.
These standards and interpretations have not been applied in these financial statements.
The group intends to comply with these standards from the effective dates.
7 New standards IFRS 9 Financial Instruments applicable for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 The International Accounting Standards Board IASB has issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which is the first step in its project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets.
The IASB expanded IFRS 9 during 2010 to add new requirements for the classification and measurement of financial liabilities and impairments of financial assets.
Future amendments will address the derecognition of financial instruments and hedge accounting.
The implementation of the standard is expected to have an impact on the group.
The group is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of the current requirements of the standard.
The standard is effective for the group for the year commencing 1 April 2014.
Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations and consequential amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements applicable for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2009 The main changes to the standard that affects the groups current policies is that acquisition related costs are expensed in the income statement in the periods in which the costs are incurred and the services received, except for costs related to the issue of debt recognised as part of the effective interest rate and the cost of issue of equity recognised directly in shareholders equity.
Currently the group recognises acquisition costs as part of the purchase consideration.
The standard will be effective for the group for the year commencing 1 April 2010.
IAS 24 Related Parties applicable for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2011 The amended standard requires commitments, as well as the nature of the relationship between related parties to be identified and disclosed.
The amended standard gives clarity to the related party definition and other terms in the standard.
The standard will be effective for the group for the year commencing 1 April 2011.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 304 Amendments to IAS 32 Classification of Rights Issues applicable for financial years beginning on or after 1 February 2010 The amendment states that rights, options and warrants otherwise meeting the definition of equity instruments in IAS 32.11 issued to acquire a fixed number of an entitys own non-derivative equity instruments for a fixed amount in any currency are classified as equity instruments, provided the offer is made pro rata to all existing owners of the same class of the entitys own non-derivative equity instruments.
The amendment is effective for the group for the annual periods commencing on or after 1 April 2010 and is not expected to have a significant impact on the group.
Other There were numerous updates issued, which are considered by the IASB to be non-urgent but important.
None of these updates will result in a change to the accounting policies of the group.
The following standards or interpretations have been issued or amended which are deemed to have no impact on the group financial statements but have not been formally adopted by the group: IFRS 5 Discontinued Operations IFRS 2 Group Cash-Settled Share-Based Transactions IAS 17 Leases IAS 38 Intangible Assets IAS 18 Revenue IAS 36 Impairment of Assets IAS 39 Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners 7 IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers Key management assumptions In preparation of the financial statements the group makes estimations and applies judgement that could affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
Key areas in which judgement is applied include: Valuation of unlisted investments in the private equity and direct investments portfolios.
Key valuation inputs are based on observable market inputs, adjusted for factors that specifically apply to the individual investments and recognising market volatility.
Details of unlisted investments can be found in note 13, Trading securities and note 15, Investment securities Valuation of investment properties is performed twice annually by directors that are qualified valuators.
The valuation is performed by capitalising the budgeted net income of a property at the market related yield applicable at the time.
Refer to note 24 for the carrying value of investment property The determination of impairments against assets that are carried at amortised cost and impairments relating to available for sale financial assets involves the assessment of future cash flows which is judgmental in nature Determination of interest income and interest expense using the effective interest method involves judgment in determining the timing and extent of future cash flows.
