Directors Responsibility statement The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditors report set out on pages 286 to 288, is made with a view to distinguishing for stakeholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the combined consolidated financial statements.
The directors are responsible for the preparation, integrity and objectivity of the combined consolidated financial statements that fairly present the state of affairs of the company and the group at the end of the financial year and the net income and cash flows for the year, and other information contained in this report.
To enable the directors to meet these responsibilities: The board and management set standards and management implements systems of internal controls and accounting and information systems aimed at providing reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and the risk of fraud, error or loss is reduced in a cost effective manner.
These controls, contained in established policies and procedures, include the proper delegation of responsibilities and authorities within a clearly defined framework, effective accounting procedures and adequate segregation of duties The groups Internal Audit function, which operates unimpeded and independently from operational management, and has unrestricted access to the group Audit Committee, appraises and, when necessary, recommends improvements in the system of internal controls and accounting practices, based on audit plans that take cognisance of the relative degrees of risk of each function or aspect of the business The group Audit Committee, together with the Internal Audit department, plays an integral role in matters relating to financial and internal control, accounting policies, reporting and disclosure.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, based on the above, the directors are satisfied that no material breakdown in the operation of the system of internal control and procedures has occurred during the year under review.
The group consistently adopts appropriate and recognised accounting policies and these are supported by reasonable judgements and estimates on a consistent basis and provides additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the groups financial position and financial performance.
The financial statements of the company and the group have been prepared in accordance with the respective Companies Acts of the United Kingdom and South Africa, comply with IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
7 The directors are of the opinion, based on their knowledge of the company, key processes in operation and specific enquiries that adequate resources exist to support the company on a going concern basis over the next year.
These financial statements have been prepared on that basis.
It is the responsibility of the independent auditors to report on the combined consolidated financial statements.
Their report to the members of the company and group is set out on pages 286 to 288 of this report.
As far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companies auditors are unaware.
All steps which ought to have been taken as directors have been completed in order to be aware of the relevant audit information and to establish that the companies auditors are aware of that information.
Approval of financial statements The Directors report and the financial statements of the company and the group, which appear on pages 275 to 279 and pages 289 to 378, were approved by the board of directors on 15 June 2010.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companies website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Signed on behalf of the board Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor Chief Executive Officer Managing Director 15 June 2010 Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 280 Declaration by the Company Secretary In terms of Section 268G d of the South African Companies Act, 61 of 1973, as amended, I hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, the company has lodged with the Registrar of Companies, for the financial year ended 31 March 2010, all such returns as are required of a public company in terms of the South African Companies Act and that all such returns are true, correct and up to date.
Benita Coetsee Company Secretary, Investec Limited 15 June 2010 77 Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 281
