Statement of Accounting Policies for The BSS Group plc Group accounts Basis of Preparation Embedded Derivatives, IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash These financial statements have been prepared in accordance Assets to Owners, Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items, Revised interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with those IFRS 3 Business Combinations, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding reporting under IFRS.
Requirement, IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, Amendment to IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled The following interpretations of existing standards have been Share-based Payment Transactions, Revised IAS 24 Related published that are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods Party Disclosures and Improvements to IFRSs.
beginning on or after 1 April 2009 and have been adopted in the financial statements for the first time this year.
A summary of the principal Group accounting policies are set out below and in the notes to the financial statements.
These policies IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements, details the have been consistently applied to all periods presented unless requirement to aggregate information in the financial statements, otherwise stated.
introduces a statement of comprehensive income and changes in titles of some of the financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain items as IAS 32 Amendment Financial Instruments: Presentation, required by IFRS.
requires a financial instrument to be classified as a liability if the holder of that instrument can require the issuer to redeem it In preparing the financial statements set out on the previous for cash.
pages, the Group has complied with the UK Listing Authority requirements and has presented a comparative balance sheet IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers, clarifies the at 31 March 2009. treatment of IFRS, particularly IAS 18 Revenue for agreements in which an entity receives an item of property, plant and Basis of Consolidation equipment from a customer to connect to an ongoing supply The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of of goods and services.
The BSS Group plc and all its subsidiaries at 31 March 2010.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the Amendment to IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial acquisition of the subsidiaries by the Group.
Subsidiary trading Instruments, clarifies that fair value disclosure are required for results are fully consolidated from the date on which control is each class of financial instruments separately.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, standardises accounting practice across jurisdictions for the Revenue recognition recognition of revenue among real estate developers for sale of Revenue represents the value of goods sold arising primarily in the units, such as apartments, or houses.
United Kingdom and Ireland excluding intra-group sales and value added tax.
Revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial ownership of the goods has been transferred to the customer.
The Statements, responds to queries regarding initial measurement of risks and rewards of ownership of the goods are deemed to have cost in separate financial statements of a new parent formed as a been transferred when the goods are despatched to, or picked up result of a specific type of reorganisation.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, Functional currency provides guidance on identifying the foreign currency risks that With the exception of BSS Ireland Limited, who conduct qualify as a hedged risk in the hedge of a net investment in a business in the Republic of Ireland, the principal place of foreign operation.
operation is the United Kingdom.
Consequently the financial statements are presented in GBP Pounds Sterling.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes, addresses accounting by entities that grant loyalty awards credits to customers who Foreign currency translation provide goods or services.
The monetary assets and liabilities of BSS Ireland Limited are translated at the closing rate at the balance sheet date and its Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment: Vesting income and expenses at the average rate for the year.
Differences Conditions and Cancellations, clarifies the term vesting arising from these translations are recognised as a separate conditions and provides the accounting treatment for non-vesting component of equity in the consolidated financial statements.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities IAS 23 Borrowing Costs, removes the option of recognising The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its immediately as an expense those borrowing costs that relate to exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks arising from assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for use financing activities.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the value of the derivative financial instruments is the estimated following Standards and Interpretations which have not yet been amount the Group would receive or pay to terminate the derivative applied by the Group were in issue but not yet effective or at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest authorised by the European Union.
and exchange rates and the current credit-worthiness of the counterparties.
Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation: Classification of Rights Issue, Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 54 54 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 55 55 Accounts Statement of Accounting Policies continued for The BSS Group plc Group accounts Derivative financial instruments and hedging c Other financial liabilities activities continued Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, that measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial are designated and effective as hedges of the future variability of liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the cash flows, are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective of a hedged item, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair interest is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash value attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or entry in the income statement.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any d Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the the income statement as they arise.
contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire: or it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and Foreign currency forward contracts are not designated rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group effective hedges and so are marked to market at the balance neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards sheet date, with any gains or losses being taken through the of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the income statement.
Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group The Group does not enter into speculative derivative contracts.
retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the Financial assets and financial liabilities financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for Financial assets are classified into the following specified the proceeds received.
categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, available-for-sale AFS financial assets and loans and The Group derecognises financial liabilities when the Groups receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Leases Assets acquired under finance leases, where substantially all the Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at risks and benefits incidental to ownership are transferred to the FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
The Group has defined the Group, are capitalised in property, plant and equipment.
classes of financial assets and financial liabilities to be other Depreciation is provided at rates designed to write-off the cost in financial assets, loans and receivables including cash, borrowings, equal annual amounts over the shorter of the estimated useful derivative financial instruments and trade and other payables.
lives of the assets and the period of the leases.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership a Financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease Financial assets and financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL payments are charged to the Income Statement as incurred.
where the financial asset or financial liability is either held for trading or it is designated as a FVTPL.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are included at cost less A financial asset or financial liability is classified as held for trading if: depreciation or impairment.
Depreciation is provided on a It has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling or of straight line basis to allocate the cost less residual value over disposal in the near future the estimated useful life of the asset and is provided at the It is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that following rates: the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking Freehold land Nil It is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a Freehold properties and long leasehold Lesser of 2% of cost or hedging instrument over the lease term Short leasehold properties tenants Financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at improvements 10% of cost fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the Plant, vehicles and other equipment 10% to 35% of cost income statement unless it is in an effective hedging relationship.
The net gain or loss recognised in the Income Statement The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and incorporates any interest earned or paid on the financial asset adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
Borrowing costs b Loans and receivables Borrowing costs specifically and directly attributable to the Trade receivables and other receivables that have fixed or acquisition or construction of assets that necessarily take a determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables which Cash and cash equivalents applies to all amounts owed to the Group when the recognition of Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances excluding interest would be immaterial.
56 56 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 57 57 Intangible assets its estimates of the number of options expected to be exercised.
a Goodwill Any net proceeds are credited to equity when the options Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over are exercised.
the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary associate at the date of acquisition.
If the Inventories cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in after adjusting for impairment for obsolete and slow moving items the income statement.
and are calculated on a first in first out basis.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less Costs comprise direct materials and where appropriate a accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cashproportion of attributable overheads, supplier rebates and generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less allocation of the goodwill is made to the lowest level of cashfurther costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
generating units or group of cash-generating units which are monitored by management and benefit from the acquisition on Trade receivables which the goodwill arose.
Trade receivables are recognised at the value of the sale of goods or services on the date of the transaction.
Subsequently trade Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying receivables are reduced when objective evidence exists that the amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold not previously written Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the off to reserves.
original terms of the receivables.
b Computer software Taxation Costs that are directly associated with the development of The current taxation charge in the income statement is based on identifiable and unique software products that will probably the profit for the year as adjusted for disallowable and non taxable generate economic benefits for the Group beyond one year, are items using current rates.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets and acquired computer software Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, licences are amortised over their estimated useful lives on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets 3 to 10 years and is provided at between 10% and 33% of cost.
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax c Acquired assets rates that are expected to apply when the related deferred income Intangible assets identified as part of the assets of an acquired tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
business are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Intangible assets Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is are amortised to the income statement over the useful life of the probable that future taxable profit will be available against which assets acquired except where they are considered to have an the temporary differences can be utilised.
All acquired intangible assets are reviewed annually for impairment and whenever there is an indication that Significant and exceptional items the asset may be impaired.
Items that are both material and non-recurring and whose significance is sufficient to warrant separate disclosure and Investment in joint venture identification within the financial statements are referred to as The results and assets and liabilities of the joint venture are exceptional items and disclosed within their relevant Consolidated incorporated in the financial statements using the equity method Income Statement category.
The Consolidated Income Statement includes the Groups share of the joint ventures profits less losses while the 2009 balance sheet restatement Groups share of the net assets of the joint venture is shown in The Group has restated financial assets and borrowings the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
for March 2009 to include the impact of derivative financial instruments in conjunction with the US$ Loan notes on a Employee benefit costs gross basis from a net basis.
a Pension schemes Group companies operate various pension schemes.
Critical Accounting Estimates Contributions to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are The preparation of the financial statements in compliance with charged in accordance with the advice of the Groups actuaries, IFRS require management to make estimates and assumptions so as to spread the cost of pensions over the anticipated service that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date lives of scheme members.
As permitted under IAS 19 revised, of the financial statements and revenue and expenses during the actuarial surpluses and deficits are recognised immediately in the period.
Management evaluates its estimates on an ongoing basis statement of comprehensive income.
using historical experience, consultation with experts and other assumptions that it believes reasonable.
The Audit Committee Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are have been party to discussions about the development, selection charged to the income statement as incurred.
and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates and about their actual application.
The Groups most b Share-based compensation sensitive estimates are discussed over the page.
The Group operates various equity settled share option schemes.
The value of the employee services is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted using the Black-Scholes valuation model.
This value is then expensed in the Income Statement in the period between grant date and vesting date vesting period.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises 56 56 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 57 57 Accounts Statement of Accounting Policies continued for The BSS Group plc Group accounts Inventories Pension liabilities As required by financial reporting standards, the Group continually The Group operates various defined benefit pension schemes, all evaluates its stock holding to ensure that it is carried at the lower of which are closed to new members.
These are accounted for of cost or net realisable value.
Provisions are made against using methods that rely on actuarial assumptions to estimate damaged, slow moving and obsolete inventories.
As damaged the value of liabilities and amount of costs to be included in the inventories are identified their value is written down through financial statements.
The actuarial assumptions include discount each Divisions inventory counting procedure.
Slow moving and rates, assumed rate of return, future salary and pension increases obsolete inventories are assessed by each Division during and employee turnover rates.
While management believe that the standard reporting procedures and again by Group management actuarial assumptions are suitable, any significant change to those for statutory reporting.
Obsolescence is considered by comparing would affect the balance sheet and income statement.
future sales with current levels of inventory holding.
External factors will also influence this estimate as new legislation, trends, Property leases or manufacturers withdrawing product lines might render certain The Group holds a number of leases on properties which are no inventories obsolete ahead of any reasonable expectations.
The longer used for trading.
The Group has recently been successful extent to which these external factors influence the profitability of in sub-letting a number of properties but despite all efforts this is inventory will determine the significance of any provision variance.
Where a lease is onerous to the Group, a provision is recognised in the accounts as the difference between As at 31 March 2010 the Group had inventory provision of 10.7m the amounts contractually owed to the landlord and the amount 2009: 10.4m.
contractually receivable if any from the tenant for the period up until the lease is judged to be no longer onerous.
Estimates are Allowance for doubtful debts based on the current condition of the UK property market and The Group makes provisions for debts that management advice from external advisors and management believe that they estimates may become impaired.
Each division makes monthly are appropriate.
It may be possible that a lease takes longer than assessments on the recoverability of all its accounts based on anticipated to dispose of resulting in an understatement of the external factors such as the creditworthiness of the customer, provision.
If this is the case, management do no believe it likely prevailing market conditions and the age of the receivable.
detailed formal review is undertaken at half and full year to ensure that all provision balances are fair and accurate.
If the Group has been cautious in assessing the financial conditions of the customer and its ability to pay, then amounts that have been provided for may subsequently be recovered.
Likewise if the Group has been optimistic then amounts expected to be recovered and therefore not provided for may subsequently be deemed irrecoverable.
As at 31 March 2010 the Group had a provision for doubtful debts of 7.9m 2009: 8.0m.
Long-lived assets Management review long-lived assets for impairment on an annual basis.
Determining whether impairment has occurred typically requires various estimates and assumptions, including determining which cash flows are directly related to the potentially impaired asset, the useful life over which cash flows will occur, their amount, and the assets residual value, if any.
In turn, measurement of an impairment loss requires a determination of fair value, which is based on the best information available.
Management use internal discounted cash flow estimates, quoted market prices when available and independent appraisals as appropriate to determine fair value.
Management derive the required cash flow estimates from historical experience and internal business plans and apply an appropriate discount rate.
58 58 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 59 59
