Accounts Statement of Accounting Policies for The BSS Group plc Company Accounts Basis of accounting Share based benefits The accounts have been prepared under UK GAAP using the The Group operates various share option schemes.
The value of historical cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain the employee services is determined by reference to the fair value items as required by UK GAAP and in accordance with the of the options granted using the Black-Scholes valuation model.
Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards.
This value is then expensed in the profit and loss account in the period between grant date and vesting date vesting period.
At The accounting policies adopted in these accounts are consistent each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the with those used in previous years, except where new standards number of options expected to be exercised.
Any net proceeds have been adopted as noted below.
are credited to equity when the options are exercised.
Investments Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are The Company also enters into derivative financial instrument and included in the financial statements at the lower of cost or net hedging activities for which the policy is the same as the Group as realisable value.
In accordance with FRS11, the Company set out on page 55 and 56. performs impairment reviews where there is an indication that the carrying amount of fixed asset investments may not be The Company has taken the exemption in FRS 29 Financial recoverable.
Where it is established that an asset has been Instruments: Disclosures as its financial statements are included impaired, then an amount equal to the impairment is charged in the publicly available consolidated financial statements of the to the profit and loss account in the year of the impairment.
Group, which include disclosures that comply with FRS 29.
Deferred tax Cash flow statement Provision is made for deferred taxation in so far as a liability or The Company has not prepared a cash flow statement, asset arose as a result of transactions that had occurred by the as allowed by FRS 1 Revised 1996 Cash Flow Statements, balance sheet date and gave rise to an obligation to pay more tax as its cash flows are included in the Group Consolidated Cash in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future with the Flow Statement.
following exception: Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Pension schemes Contributions to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are charged in accordance with the advice of the Groups actuaries, so as to spread the cost of pensions over the anticipated service lives of scheme members.
Actuarial surpluses and deficits are spread forward over the average remaining service lives of scheme members.
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Borrowings Borrowings are carried at their issue proceeds net of finance costs, less amounts repaid.
Finance costs are allocated over the term of the borrowings.
84 84 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 85 85
