FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31st December 2010 2.
Segment information Management has determined the operating segments based on the analysis used in reports that are used to make strategic decisions.
Business segment analysis The Group is organised on a worldwide basis into five main segments: London Market, Retail, Employee Benefits, Thistle Insurance Services and Head Office & Other operations.
These segments are consistent with the internal reporting structure of the Group.
The London Market segment comprises JLTs specialist, wholesale and reinsurance broking activities.
The Retail segment comprises the Group international insurance broking and risk services activities.
The Employee Benefits segment consists of pension administration, outsourcing and employee benefits consultancy.
The Thistle Insurance Services segment provides solutions to Affinities, SME and retail markets via its own business units as well as third party brokers, mainly through open-market placements, delegated authorities and Managed General Underwriting MGU arrangements.
The Head Office & Other segment consists mainly of holding companies, central administration functions, the Group's captive insurance companies and the Group's principal investments in associates.
Segment results In accordance with IFRS 8, segment results include the net income or expense derived from the trading activities of the segment together with the investment income earned on fiduciary funds.
Interest income on the Groups own funds and finance costs are excluded since the trading activities of the Groups primary segments are not of a financial nature.
The standard also specifically excludes the income tax expense from segmental allocation with the consequence that the non-controlling interest charge is also excluded.
Segment assets include: - non current assets excluding investments in associates and deferred tax assets - trade and other receivables - fiduciary funds Interest bearing assets e. g. cash and cash equivalents and investments and deposits relating to the Groups own funds are excluded from segmental assets.
Segment liabilities include: - trade and other payables - provisions for liabilities and charges It excludes any interest bearing liabilities e. g. borrowings as well as income and deferred tax liabilities.
"Items excluded from segmental allocation are referred to as unallocated""."
Investments in associates: The Group owns 20 per cent of the French company Newstone Courtage the holding company of Siaci Saint Honor which operates principally in France.
In 2010, the Group acquired 20 per cent of the Austrian company GrECo which operates mainly in Austria and Eastern Europe.
The investment and the Group's share of Newstones and GrECo's net profit are included in the Head Office & Other segment, together with the investment and results of the Groups other associates, JLT Re Do Brazil, Sterling Re Intermediario fide Reaseguro SA fide CV, JLT Insurance Management Malta and ICAP-JLT.
A small associate in Asia is included in the Retail segment.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets.
Comparatives for 2009 have been restated to show Thistle Insurance Services as a separate segment, to better reflect the way business is managed.
There has been no change in the reported results.
62 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Segment information continued Geographical segment analysis Although the Groups four business segments are managed on a worldwide basis, they operate in five principal geographical areas of the world.
The United Kingdom is the home country of the parent company Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc.
The London Market segment operates in the United Kingdom, its home country.
In the Americas, the London Market segment operates in Bermuda and the United States.
In Europe, it operates in France and Russia.
The Retail segment operates in the United Kingdom, its home country and also in Guernsey.
In the Americas, the Retail segment operates in the following countries: Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru.
In Europe, it operates in the Republic of Ireland, Italy, Spain, Poland, Sweden, Finland and Norway.
The Australasian segment includes operations in Australia and New Zealand and the Asian segment includes operations in Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Indonesia, Japan, Thailand, Korea, Philippines, Malaysia, China and Vietnam.
The Employee Benefits segment operates in the United Kingdom, its home country and the Republic of Ireland.
The Thistle Insurance Services segment operates in the United Kingdom, its home country.
The Head Office & Other activities segment is mainly based in the United Kingdom with minor operations in the United States, Europe and Asia.
The Groups captive operations are included in the United Kingdom segment.
Fees and commissions are disclosed both by 1 the country in which the office is located and 2 the country in which the customer is located.
Segment non current assets, segment assets and segment liabilities are allocated based on the country in which they are located or occur.
