FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES whether an embedded derivative should be separated from a host Basis of Preparation contract when the entity reclassifies a hybrid financial asset out of the The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been fair value through profit or loss category.
This assessment is to be prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting made based on circumstances that existed on the later of the date Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the entity first became a party to the contract and the date of any the EU, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable contract amendments that significantly change the cash flows of the to Companies reporting under IFRSs.
The amendment does not have an impact on the Group or statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, Company's financial statements.
as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale investments and derivative financial instruments.
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation effective 1st July 2009.
This amendment states that, in a hedge of a net Standards, amendments and interpretations investment in a foreign operation, qualifying hedging instruments may effective in 2010 be held by any entity or entities within the group, including the foreign The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRSs as of operation itself, as long as the designation, documentation and 1st January 2010: effectiveness requirements of IAS 39 that relate to a net investment hedge are satisfied.
In particular, the group should clearly document IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations, and consequential its hedging strategy because of the possibility of different designations amendments to IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial at different levels of the Group.
statements, IAS 28, Investments in associates, and IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures, are effective prospectively to business IAS 38 amendment, Intangible assets, effective 1st January 2010. combinations dated on or after the beginning of the first annual The amendment clarifies guidance in measuring the fair value of an reporting period beginning on or after 1st July 2009.
The revised intangible asset acquired in a business combination and permits the standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business grouping of intangible assets as a single asset if each asset has similar combinations but with some significant changes compared with useful economic lives.
The amendment does not have an impact on IFRS 3.
For example, all payments to purchase a business are the Group or Company's financial statements.
recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements.
The payments classified as debt subsequently remeasured through the amendment clarifies that the potential settlement of a liability by the statement of comprehensive income.
There is a choice on an issue of equity is not relevant to its classification as current or non  basis to measure the non-controlling interest current.
By amending the definition of current liability, the amendment in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests permits a liability to be classified as non-current provided that the proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
All acquisition-related entity has an unconditional right to defer settlement by transfer of costs are expensed.
cash or other assets for at least 12 months after the accounting IAS 27 revised requires the effects of all transactions with nonperiod notwithstanding the fact that the entity could be required by controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in the counterparty to settle in shares at any time.
The amendment does control and these transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains not have an impact on the Group or Company's financial statements.
The standard also specifies the accounting when control IAS 36 amendment, Impairment of assets, effective 1st January is lost.
Any remaining interest in the entity is re-measured to fair value, 2010.
The amendment clarifies that the largest cash-generating unit and a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
or group of units to which goodwill should be allocated for the IFRIC 17, Distribution of non-cash assets to owners is effective on or purposes of impairment testing is an operating segment, as defined after 1st July 2009.
This interpretation provides guidance on by paragraph 5 of IFRS 8, Operating segments that is, before the accounting for arrangements whereby an entity distributes non-cash aggregation of segments with similar economic characteristics.
The assets to shareholders either as a distribution of reserves or as amendment does not have an impact on the Group or Company's dividends.
IFRS 5 has also been amended to require that assets are financial statements.
classified as held for distribution only when they are available for IFRS 2 amendments, Group cash-settled share-based payment distribution in their present condition and the distribution is highly transactions, effective from 1st January 2010.
The amendment does not have an impact on the Group or incorporating IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2, and IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Company's financial statements.
Group and treasury share transactions, the amendments expand on IFRIC 18, Transfers of assets from customers, effective for transfer of the guidance in IFRIC 11 to address the classification of group assets received on or after 1st July 2009.
This interpretation clarifies arrangements that were not covered by that interpretation.
The the requirements of IFRSs for agreements in which an entity receives amendment does not have an impact on the Group or Company's from a customer an item of property, plant and equipment that the financial statements.
entity must then use either to connect the customer to a network or IFRS 5 amendment, Non-current assets held for sale and to provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or discontinued operations.
The amendment clarifies that IFRS 5 services such as a supply of electricity, gas or water.
The specifies the disclosures required in respect of non-current assets or amendment does not have an impact on the Group or Company's disposal groups classified as held for sale or discontinued operations.
It also clarifies that the general requirement of IAS 1 still apply.
The IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives and IAS 39, amendment does not have an impact on the Group or Company's Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, effective 1st financial statements.
This amendment to IFRIC 9 requires an entity to assess 54 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other Basis of consolidation comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if The consolidated financial statements comprise the accounts of the the group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
The profits and losses of This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other subsidiary undertakings are consolidated as from the effective date of comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
acquisition or to the effective date of disposal.
If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant Subsidiaries influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain economic to profit or loss where appropriate.
benefits and generally accompany a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting Associates rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially control ceases.
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill net of any business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
The Groups acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or in reserves is recognised in reserves.
liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets carrying amount of the investment.
acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, date.
On an  basis, the Group recognises the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less impairment.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the Cost is adjusted to reflect changes in consideration arising from transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset contingent consideration amendments.
Cost also includes direct transferred.
Accounting policies of associates have been changed attributable costs of investment.
where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any nonthe Group.
controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Changes in accounting policy groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as The group has changed its accounting policy for transactions with goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the non-controlling interests and the accounting for loss of control or subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is significant influence from 1st January 2010 when revised IAS 27, recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
Consolidated and separate financial statements, became effective.
The revision to IAS 27 contained consequential amendments to IAS Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on 28, Investments in associates, and IAS 31, Interests in joint transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the Previously transactions with non-controlling interests were treated as policies adopted by the Group.
transactions with parties external to the group.
Disposals therefore resulted in gains or losses in profit or loss and purchases resulted in Transactions with non-controlling interests the recognition of goodwill.
On disposal or partial disposal, a The group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as proportionate interest in reserves attributable to the subsidiary was transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from reclassified to profit or loss or directly to retained earnings.
non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration Previously, when the Group ceased to have control or significant paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net influence over an entity, the carrying amount of the investment at the assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on date control or significant influence became its cost for the purposes disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
of subsequently accounting for the retained interests as associates, When the Group ceases to have control or significant influence, any jointly controlled entity or financial assets.
retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, with the The group has applied the new policy prospectively to transactions change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
The fair value is occurring on or after 1st January 2010.
As a consequence, no the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently adjustments were necessary to any of the amounts previously accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or recognised in the financial statements.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 55 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Segment reporting Goodwill arising on consolidation A business segment is a Group of assets and operations engaged in Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the providing services that are subject to risks and returns that are fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the different from those of other business segments.
acquired subsidiary associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is shown separately on the Balance Sheet.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing services within a Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in investments in particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns associates.
that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions completed prior to 1st January 1998 is written off directly to reserves.
Following the adoption of IFRS this Foreign currencies goodwill remains written off to reserves and no adjustment would be made on subsequent disposal.
For acquisitions completed on or after Functional and presentation currency 1st January 1998 and before 1st January 2004, goodwill is stated on Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups the Balance Sheet at its previously amortised net book value.
entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
For acquisitions completed on or after 1st January 2004, goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity is the Parent Companys functional and presentation currency.
include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Transactions and balances Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Cash generating units represent the lowest level of Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional geographical and business segment combinations that the Group currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the uses for internal reporting purposes.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end Intangible assets exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except Computer software when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying Acquired computer software licenses are capitalised on the basis of net investment hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Costs as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on nonassociated with developing or maintaining computer software monetary items, such as equities classified as available-for-sale programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are financial assets, are included in the fair value reserve in equity.
directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate Group companies economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of as intangible assets.
Direct costs include the software development which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
functional currency different from the presentation currency are Computer software development costs recognised as assets are translated into the presentation currency as follows: amortised over their estimated useful lives.
i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are Capitalised employment contract payments translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: The Group makes payments to certain key employees in recognition ii income and expenses for each income statement are translated at of them signing a long-term employment contact, usually three to five average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable years.
These payments are capitalised as intangible assets since legal approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on rights protect the expected benefits that the Group will derive from the the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are contracts.
translated at the dates of the transactions : and The asset recognised is then amortised over the duration of the iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other underlying contract.
Other On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other For acquisitions completed after 1st January 2004 the business currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are acquired is reviewed to identify assets that meet the definition of an taken to other comprehensive income.
When a foreign operation is intangible asset per IAS 38.
Examples of such assets include sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income customer contracts and expectations of business renewal.
These statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
assets are valued on the basis of the present value of future cash flows and are amortised to the income statement over the life of the Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a contract or their estimated economic life.
The current maximum foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity estimated economic life is ten years.
and translated at the closing rate.
56 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS to receive cash flows have expired or have been transferred and the Impairment of assets Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation Available-for-sale assets are subsequently carried at fair value.
and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost.
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be The fair values of quoted investments are determined based upon recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by current bid price.
which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less Changes in the value of securities classified as available-for-sale are costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing recognised in equity.
impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Employee benefit trust The Group operates a deferred compensation scheme by way of a Property, plant and equipment discretionary, employee benefit trust.
Investments held by this Assets are stated at their net book value historical cost less scheme, which are principally represented by Unit Trusts, are classified accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the as fixed assets on the balance sheets and charged to the Group profit cost of such assets over their estimated useful lives.
and loss account over the vesting periods of the award.
The principal rates of depreciation are as follows: Insurance broking debtors and creditors Freehold land and buildings: - between 0% and 2% per annum.
Insurance brokers act as agents in placing the insurable risks of their clients with insurers and, as such, are not liable as principals for Leasehold improvements: - between 10% and 20% per annum or amounts arising from such transactions.
In recognition of this over the life of the lease.
relationship, debtors from insurance broking transactions are not Furniture and office equipment: - between 10% and 20% per included as an asset of the Group.
Other than the receivable for fees annum.
and commissions earned on a transaction, no recognition of the Computer hardware: - between 20% and 100% per annum.
insurance transaction occurs until the Group receives cash in respect of premiums or claims, at which time a corresponding liability is Motor vehicles: - between 25% and 33 1 3% per annum.
established in favour of the insurer or the client.
Financial assets In certain circumstances, the Group advances premiums, refunds or The Group classifies its financial assets as loans and receivables and claims to insurance underwriters or clients prior to collection.
The classification depends upon the advances are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet as part of purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Trade receivables Loans and receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or at amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all months after the balance sheet date.
amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The Group's loans and receivables comprise trade and other Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, dispute, default or receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the receivable is impaired.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the Available-for-sale financial assets use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is Available-for-sale financial assets are categorised according to their recognised in the income statement.
nature into one of two categories: When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the 1 Investments and deposits, which consist mainly of Fixed Deposits, allowance account for trade receivables.
Bonds and Commercial Paper - these investments are held at fair value and are classified between current and non-current assets Cash and cash equivalents according to maturity date.
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at 2 Other investments, which include securities and other investments call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original held for strategic purposes - these investments are held fair at maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within value unless a fair value cannot be accurately determined in which borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
case they are held at cost less any provision for impairment.
Trade payables Interest on deposits and interest-bearing investments is credited as it Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently is earned.
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date - the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell Borrowings the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an transaction costs.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 57 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED months after the balance sheet date.
Borrowings are recognised Actuarial gains and losses, including differences between the expected initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, they are and actual return on scheme assets, are recognised through the subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
Deferred income tax The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year at current The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further rates of tax and takes into account deferred tax.
contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on prior periods.
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial The costs of the Groups defined contribution pension schemes are statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial charged to the income statement in the period in which they fall due.
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a Share-based compensation business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not recognised.
The fair value of the employee services received income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for Deferred income tax is charged or credited to equity in respect of any example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting items, which is itself either charged or credited directly to equity.
Any conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options subsequent recognition of the deferred gain or loss in the consolidated that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, income statement is accompanied by the corresponding deferred the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are income tax.
It recognises the impact of the Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
temporary differences can be utilised.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group when the options are exercised.
controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the Provisions for liabilities and charges foreseeable future.
A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, whether legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable Employee benefits that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the Pension costs obligation and a reasonable estimate can be made of the amount of The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes, the obligation.
Where appropriate the Group discounts provisions to and a number of employees are members of defined contribution their present value.
The unwinding of the provision discounting is pension schemes.
included as an interest charge within finance costs in the income statement.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually Fees and commissions dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and Fees and commissions are derived from two principal sources: compensation.
Insurance broking Full actuarial valuations of the Groups main defined benefit schemes Income relating to insurance broking is brought into account at the are carried out at least every three years.
later of, the policy inception date or when the policy placement has A qualified actuary updates these valuations to 31st December each been completed and confirmed.
Where there is an expectation of year.
For the purposes of these annual updates, scheme assets are future servicing requirements an element of income relating to the included at market value and scheme liabilities are measured on an policy is deferred to cover the associated contractual obligation.
actuarial basis using the projected unit method: these liabilities are discounted at the current rate of return of an AA corporate bond of Other services equivalent currency and term.
The defined benefit surplus or deficit is Fees and other income receivable are recognised in the period which included on the Groups balance sheet.
Surpluses are included only to they relate and when they can be measured with reasonable certainty.
the extent that they are recoverable through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the schemes.
The current service Non-recurring items cost and any past service costs are included in the income statement Non-recurring items are separately identified to provide greater within salaries and associated expenses and the expected return on understanding of the Groups underlying performance.
Items classified the schemes assets, net of the impact of the unwinding of the as exceptional items include: gains or losses arising from the sale of discount on scheme liabilities, is included within finance costs.
businesses and investments: closure costs for businesses: 58 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS restructuring costs: post acquisition integration costs: and other is recognised when the committed or forecasted transaction ultimately credits and charges of non-recurring nature that require inclusion in is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When a order to provide additional insight into the underlying business committed or forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, performance.
the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the consolidated income statement.
Items of a non-recurring and material nature are charged or credited to operating profit and are classified to the appropriate income Fair value estimation statement headings.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as To assist in the analysis and understanding of the underlying trading available-for-sale is based upon quoted market prices at the balance position of the Group these items are summarised within the sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by Operating Profit, note 3 on page 65, under the heading of the Group is the current bid price.
The carrying value less impairment provision of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair values Leases of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual Assets held under leasing agreements, which transfer substantially all cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are included in Group for similar financial instruments.
The capital elements of the related lease obligations are included in liabilities.
The interest elements of the Dividend distribution lease obligations are charged to the income statement over the period Dividends proposed or declared after the balance sheet date is not of the lease term.
recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date.
Final dividends are Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of recognised as a charge to equity once approved and interim dividends ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straightFinancial and capital risk management line basis over the period of the lease.
The Groups exposure to financial risks and its financial and capital management policies are detailed in the Risk Management Report on Derivative financial instruments pages 26 to 29.
The Group only enters into derivative financial instruments in order to Critical accounting estimates and judgments hedge underlying commercial exposures.
Estimates and judgments used in preparing the financial statements Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently reother factors, including expectations of future events that are believed measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting to be reasonable.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, gain or loss is dependent on the nature of the item being hedged.
seldom equal the related actual results.
The Group designates derivatives as either a hedge of the fair value of The estimates and assumptions that have a significant effect on the a recognised asset or liability fair value hedge, or a hedge of a carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
forecasted transaction or of the foreign currency risk on a firm commitment cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a a Property, plant and equipment foreign entity net investment hedges.
Assets are carried at historical cost less depreciation calculated to write off the cost of such assets over their estimated useful lives.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges and that are highly effective, are recorded in the Management determines the estimated useful lives and related consolidated income statement, along with any changes in the fair depreciation charges at acquisition.
The estimated useful life is value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged reviewed annually and the depreciation charge is revised where risk.
useful lives are subsequently found to be different to those previously estimated.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges and that are highly effective, are recognised in b Impairment of assets equity.
Where the forecasted transaction or firm commitment results in The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other assets that the recognition of a non-financial asset or of a non-financial liability, the have indefinite useful lives suffered any impairment.
Other assets gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset or liability.
Otherwise, amounts deferred in equity are transferred to the exceeds its recoverable amount.
consolidated income statement and classified as income or expense The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is in the same periods during which the hedged firm commitment or determined based on value-in use calculations prepared on the forecasted transaction affects the consolidated income statement.
The basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
This gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised instantly in determination requires significant judgment.
In making this the income statement.
judgment, the Group evaluates, among other factors, the duration When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no and extent to which the fair value of an investment is less than its cost: and the financial health of and near-term business outlook longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or for the investment, including factors such as industry and sector loss existing in equity at that time remains in the hedging reserves and Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 59 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED performance, changes in regional economies and operational and Future developments financing cash flow.
The following standards and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods c Income taxes beginning on or after 1st January 2011 or later periods, but the Group The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
has not adopted them early: Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide IFRS 9, Financial instruments, issued in November 2009.
This provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain standard is the first step in the process to replace IAS 39, Financial during the ordinary course of business.
Where the final tax instruments: recognition and measurement.
IFRS 9 introduces new outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and is initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and likely to affect the Groups accounting for its financial assets.
The deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination standard is not applicable until 1st January 2013 but is available for is made.
However, the standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
IFRS 9 will only permit the recognition of fair value gains and d Pension obligations losses in other comprehensive income if they relate to equity The present value of the pension obligations depends on a investments that are not held for trading.
number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using Revised IAS 24 revised, Related party disclosures, issued in a number of assumptions.
It supersedes IAS 24, Related party disclosures, The assumptions used in determining the net cost income for issued in 2003.
IAS 24 revised is mandatory for periods beginning on pensions include the expected long-term rate of return on the or after 1st January 2011.
Earlier application, in whole or in part, is relevant plans assets and the discount rate.
However, the standard has not yet been endorsed by the Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying EU.
The revised standard clarifies and simplifies the definition of a amount of pension obligations.
related party and removes the requirement for government-related entities to disclose details of all transactions with the government and The expected return on plan assets assumption is determined on other government-related entities.
The Group will apply the revised a uniform basis, taking into consideration long-term historical standard from 1st January 2011, subject to endorsement by the EU.
returns, asset allocation and future estimates of long-term investment returns.
The Group determines the appropriate Classification of rights issues amendment to IAS 32, issued in discount rate at the end of each year.
The amendment applies to annual periods beginning This is the interest rate that should be used to determine the on or after 1st February 2010.
The present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be amendment addresses the accounting for rights issues that are required to settle the pension obligations.
denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the issuer.
The new guidance is not expected to have a material impact In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers on the Groups financial statements.
the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments, and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the effective 1st July 2010.
The interpretation clarifies the accounting by related pension liability.
Other key assumptions for pension an entity when the terms of a financial liability are renegotiated and obligations are based in part on current market conditions.
result in the entity issuing equity instruments to a creditor of the entity to extinguish all or part of the financial liability debt for equity swap.
It e Errors and omissions liability requires a gain or loss to be recognised in profit or loss, which is During the ordinary course of business the Group can be subject measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the to claims for errors and omissions made in connection with its financial liability and the fair value of the equity instruments issued.
the fair value of the equity instruments issued cannot be reliably A balance sheet provision is established in respect of such claims measured, the equity instruments should be measured to reflect the when it is probable that the liability has been incurred and the fair value of the financial liability extinguished.
The Group will apply the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated.
interpretation from 1st January 2011, subject to endorsement by the EU.
It is not expected to have any impact on the Group or the parent The Group analyses its litigation exposures based on available entitys financial statements.
information, including external legal consultation where appropriate, to assess its potential liability.
Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement amendments to IFRIC 14.
The amendments correct an unintended consequence of The outcome of the currently pending and future proceedings IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum cannot be predicted with certainty.
Thus, an adverse decision in a funding requirements and their interaction.
Without the amendments, current or future lawsuit could result in additional costs that are entities are not permitted to recognise as an asset some voluntary not covered, either wholly or partially, under insurance policies and prepayments for minimum funding contributions.
The amendments are in excess of the presently established provisions.
It is possible are effective for annual periods beginning 1st January 2011.
Earlier therefore that the financial position, results of operations or cash application is permitted.
The amendments should be applied flows of the Group could be materially affected by the retrospectively to the earliest comparative period presented.
The unfavourable outcome of litigation.
group will apply these amendments for the financial reporting period commencing on 1st January 2011.
60 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010
