FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the year ended 31st December 2010 Basis of preparation The Board has decided that the continued use of UK GAAP at the entity level is a more appropriate method of accounting rather than the application of IFRS as required to be used for the preparation of the Group consolidated accounts.
These separate entity level accounts have been produced in a going concern basis under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards.
A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out below.
Foreign currencies Foreign currency transactions are translated into sterling using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation are taken directly to the profit and loss account to the extent that the Company is exposed to exchange differences arising on such assets and liabilities.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year at current rates of tax and takes into account deferred tax.
Full provision for deferred tax, without discounting, is made for all timing differences that have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Consolidated accounts Separate consolidated accounts have been prepared and are presented on pages 49 to 104.
Subsidiary and associated undertakings Investments in subsidiary and associated undertakings are stated in the balance sheet of the Company at cost less any provisions for permanent diminution in value.
A list of principal subsidiaries is set out in note 35 on page 104.
Investment income Interest on deposits and interest-bearing investments is credited as it is earned.
Dividend distribution Dividends proposed or declared after the balance sheet dates are not recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date.
Final dividends are recognised as a charge to shareholders funds once approved and interim dividends are charged once paid.
Cash flow statement The Company is exempt under the terms of FRS 1 from the requirement to publish its own cash flow statement, as its cash flows are included within the consolidated cash flow statement of the Group.
108 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010
