The % change shown is based on a combination of both the old and new charge controls.
i Externally sold PPC local ends includes a premium to pay for the Point of Handover POH access.
Internally sold private circuits do not require POH access and therefore do not pay this premium.
NB The POH premium was only applicable up to September 2009. j The RPI used for compliance purposes in 2009 10 is -1.57% which is based on the monthly RPI from June 2008 to June 2009. z The average charges are an annual weighting for the entire reporting year taking account of all price changes within the period.
af Commentary on the Price Controls in Wholesale Markets is provided in Section 1.1.
121 Glossary Glossary Glossary 122 Glossary Glossary continued Glossary CP Communications Provider.
Accounting The Primary Accounting Documents, DAM, DVM and R&P.
Documents CSH Customer Sited Handover.
Accounting Accounting separation requirements arise where there is an obligation to CSI Customer Sited Interconnect.
Separation not unduly discriminate and or there is a reasonable concern that a Dominant Provider may make cross-subsidies, e. g. the means by which a margin Current Cost The change to historical costs arising from the revaluation of assets on a cursqueeze may be funded.
"In the statements for individual Businesses and activities the ""CCA"" adjustadjustments comprise the holding gains or losses arising from changes in ADSL Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line."
ments asset values, together with the effect on asset values and depreciation of the appropriate allocation of current cost asset values between markets, TechniAISBO Alternative Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination.
cal Areas and Wholesale services.
Annual Report BT's Consolidated Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March.
These are available on the BT website at http: www.
DAM The Detailed Attribution Methods.
This sets out the detailed processes by ASBO Asymmetric Broadband Orgination.
which revenues and costs are attributed to the markets, Technical Areas and Wholesale services.
DLRIC LRIC plus a share of common costs.
Baskets Baskets are collections of services not considered to be competitive and for which prices are subject to specific charge controls.
DSAC Stand alone cost SAC excluding a share of core common costs.
DSLAM Digital Subscriber Line Access Multiplexer.
DVM The Detailed Valuation Methodology.
This sets out the methodology by which current cost valuations are obtained.
EAB Equality of Access Board.
Components Within these Statements, the term components includes both network components and network parts.
Cost accounting Cost accounting obligations are to meet the requirements where there is an E-side Exchange side.
obligation in relation to: Price controls.
FRIACO Flat Rate Internet Access Call Origination.
123 Glossary Glossary continued Glossary continued IEC Interconnection Extension Circuit.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
ms Million seconds ISH In-Span Handover.
Network Charge The basis on which interconnect charges have been set with effect from 1 Control regime October 1997.
"""NCC"" ITT Inter-Tandem Transit."
Other commuOther telecommunication companies operating in the UK, which purchase nications protelecommunication services from BT.
PECN Public Electronic Communications Network.
PIPeR Physical Inventory for Planning and eRecords.
LLCS Local Lines Costing Study.
LLMR Leased Lines Market Review.
PPM Pence per Minute Long Run IncreDefined as the cost caused by the provision of a defined increment of output PPP Product management, policy and planning.
"mental Cost given that costs can, if necessary, be varied and that some level of output is ""LRIC"" already produced."
Primary Set out the framework within which the Current Cost Financial Statements Accounting are prepared.
RBS Radio Base Station Backhaul.
"Relationships The BT publication ""Long Run Incremental Cost Model: Relationships and and Parameters Parameters"" describes in detail how BT has applied the principles contained Mean capital Mean capital employed is defined as total assets less current liabilities, ""R&P"" within the LRIC Methodology section of the Accounting Documents to conemployed excluding corporate taxes and dividends payable, and provisions other than struct cost volume relationships and to calculate LRIC."
The R&P also contains MCE those for deferred taxation.
The mean is computed from the start and end appendices which detail the relationships and parameters used within the values for the period, except in the case of short-term investments and bormodel.
rowings, where daily averages are used in their place.
Retail cost Cost accounting in Retail markets deals with products and services sold to MEA Modern Equivalent Asset.
124 Glossary Glossary continued Glossary continued reval.
See Section 4 - Basis of Preparation.
zero A numerical value of 0.5m and 0.5 m. Safeguard Caps Safeguard Caps are a collection of services considered prospectively com- 1 A value of below 1m.
petitive and for which the rates are subject to specific charge controls.
SDSL Symmetric Digital Subscriber Line.
"Stand alone cost The stand alone cost of an activity or subset of activities is the cost incurred ""SAC"" in providing that activity or activities of services by itself."
Stand alone cost will include all direct variable, activity specific fixed costs, common fixed costs and joint costs associated with the activity or subset of activities in question.
SDSL Synchronous Digital Subscriber Line.
SMPF Shared Metallic Path Facilities.
TISBO Traditional Interface Symmetric Broadband Orgination.
Trans Transactions UBR Universal Broadband Router.
Usage Factors Usage Factors refer to the usage of any network component, including conveyance components.
Wholesale cost Cost accounting in Wholesale markets deals with products and services sold accounting to Communications Providers.
125 Additional Information Additional Information Additional Information 126 Additional Information Hard copy versions of the published Current Cost Financial Statements, Primary Accounting Documents, Detailed Attribution Methods, Detailed Valuation Methodology and Long Run Incremental Cost Model: Relationships and Parameters can be obtained from: Shareholder Helpline Tel: Freefone 0808 100 4141 Fax: 01903 833371 Textphone: Freefone 0800 169 6907 From outside the UK: Tel: 44 121 415 7178 Fax: 44 1903 833371 Textphone: Freephone 44 121 415 7028 E-mail: bt@equiniti.
co. uk The Registrar Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA United Kingdom Website: http: www.
com Electronic copies of the above documents are also available from the following website: http: www.
