Section 3 - Audit Report Section 3.1 - Report of the Independent Auditors Annex 23 Report of the Independent Auditors to British Telecommunications plc and Ofcom issued in accordance with the Final Statement and Notification entitled The regulatory financial reporting obligations on BT and Kingston Communications issued by Ofcom on 22 July 2004 as amended by the annual Notifications of changes to regulatory financial reporting issued by Ofcom following consultation as set out below.
"We have examined the Current Cost Financial Statements for 2010 the ""Financial Statements"" The statements of Attribution of Wholesale Current Costs and Mean Capital Employed on pages which include information in respect of economic markets the ""Market Financial Statements"" and 24, 26, 27 and 29: Openreach the ""Openreach Information""."
The statement of financial performance in Access Markets on page 31: 2.
"The Market Financial Statements are prepared by British Telecommunications plc the ""Company"" The Market Summary statements for Access Markets on pages 38 to 55: under the current cost convention in accordance with: The statement of financial performance in Other Wholesale Markets on pages 57: the Final Statement and Notification entitled ""The regulatory financial reporting obligations on The Market Summary statements for Other Wholesale Markets on pages 65 to 79: and BT and Kingston Communications"" issued by Ofcom on 22 July 2004 as amended by the Final the related notes set out in Sections 4, 7, 8 and 9 on pages 32 to 37, 58 to 64 and 81 to 83, and Statement and Notification entitled ""Changes to BT's regulatory financial reporting framework"" Appendix 1 on pages 93 to 117, other than the LRIC Floors and LRIC ceilings."
"issued by Ofcom on 31 August 2005, and the Explanatory Statements and Notifications entitled ""Changes to BT's regulatory financial reporting and audit requirements"" issued by Ofcom on 16 5."
"The Openreach Information comprises the following information for the year ended 31 March August 2006, ""Changes to BT's regulatory financial reporting and audit requirements"" issued by 2009 on pages 85 to 90: Ofcom on 30 May 2007, ""Changes to BT's 2007 08 regulatory financial statements"" issued by The Openreach P&L Statement: Ofcom on 26 June 2008, ""Changes to BT and KCOM's regulatory financial reporting 2008 09 The Openreach MCE Statement: and update"" issued by Ofcom on 15 June 2009 and ""Changes to BT and KCOM's regulatory and financial reporting 2009 10 update"" issued by Ofcom on 4 June 2010 together the ""Final The Reconciliation of Openreach P&L."
"The Market Financial Statements and The Openreach Information include comparative information the Primary Accounting Documents: for the year ended 31 March 2009 first published on 13 August 2009 which have been rethe Secondary Accounting Documents, namely the Detailed Attribution Methods and the presented as described in ""Comparability of current and prior year results"" on page 17."
"All Detailed Valuation Methodology: and comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2009 is prepared by the Company to comply with the Final Statements and Notifications, and in accordance with the Primary Accounting The treatment of holding gains and associated backlog depreciation on duct and associated Documents and the Secondary Documents dated 13 August 2009 as amended, where applicable, structures as described in section 4.1 on page 17 and 18. in accordance with ""Comparability of current and prior year results"" on page 17."
The Openreach Information is prepared by the Company under the current cost convention in accordance with: Respective responsibilities of the Company and auditors 7.
The Company is responsible for preparing and approving, as described on page 10 of the Financial the undertakings given to Ofcom by the Company pursuant to the Enterprise Act 2002 on 22 Statements.
"Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom September 2005 the ""Undertakings"" : by the Final Statements and Notifications, the Undertakings, the Auditing Practices Board and our the Explanatory Statement and Notification entitled ""Changes to BT's regulatory financial profession's ethical guidance."
"reporting obligations"" issued by Ofcom on 30 May 2007, ""Changes to BT's 2007 08 regulatory 8."
"Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements in accordance with relevant legal and financial statements"" issued by Ofcom on 26 June 2008, ""Changes to BT and KCOM's regulatory regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the financial reporting 2008 9 update"" issued by Ofcom on 15 June 2009 and ""Changes to BT and Auditing Practices Board."
"This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the KCOM's regulatory and financial reporting 2009 10 update"" issued by Ofcom on 4 June 2010 Company and Ofcom and for no other purpose."
"We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume together the ""Explanatory Statement and Notifications"" : and responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into the Primary Accounting Documents."
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
The Market Financial Statements comprise the following statements for the year ended 31 March 9.
We report our opinions as to whether: 2010 for the Markets and Technical Areas listed on page 6: the Market Financial Statements as a whole: The consolidated performance summary on page 22: 12 Section 3 - Audit Report each of the market group statements comprising the statement of financial performance in 11.
"We report our opinions as to whether the Re-presented Market Financial Statements as a whole for Access Markets on page 31 and the statement of financial performance in Other Wholesale the year ended 31 March 2009 are fairly presented in accordance with the Primary Accounting Markets on page 57 the ""Market Group Statements"" : Documents dated 13 August 2009 subject to the re-presentation changes described in ""Comparability of current and prior year results"" on page 17, and comply with the requirements of each of the Market Summary Statements for the markets and technical areas listed below the the Final Statements and Notifications."
"In addition, we report if, in our opinion, the ""Introduction to accounts"", setting out the basis upon o Wholesale analogue exchange line services on page 38: which the Financial Statements have been prepared, is not consistent with the Financial o Wholesale business ISDN30 exchange line services on page 40: Statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the o Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 8Mbit s on information and explanations we require for our examination, or if information specified by the page 41: Final Statements and Notifications is not disclosed."
o Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination above 8mbit s up to and inc. 13.
We read the other information presented with the Financial Statements and consider the 45Mbit s on page 47: implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
The other information comprises the Regulatory o Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination above 45mbit s up to and inc. Financial Overview on page 7, the Access Markets Review on pages 32 to 37, the Review of Other 155Mbit s on page 49: Wholesale Markets on pages 58 to 64, the Price Control Statements on pages 119 to 121, the o Alternative interface symmetric broadband origination on page 51: Openreach Notes on page 91 and the Glossary and Additional Information on pages 123 to 127. o Wholesale local access on page 55: Basis of audit opinion o Wholesale trunk segments on page 72: 14.
"As explained in ""Basis of preparation"" on pages 16 to 20, the Company has, by agreement with BT o Wholesale broadband access on page 76: and Group plc, its ultimate parent company, prepared the Financial Statements by disaggregating balances recorded in the general ledgers and other accounting records of BT Group plc and its the Openreach Information on pages 85 to 90. subsidiaries ""the Group"" maintained in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and used, in are fairly presented in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents and comply with the accordance with that Act, for the preparation of the Company's statutory consolidated financial requirements of the Final Statements and Notifications and the Undertakings."
"In respect of the statements for the years ended 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 ""the Statutory Financial Market Financial Statements as a whole, each of the Market Group Statements and each of the FPIA Statements""."
Markets, we also report whether, in forming that opinion, having reviewed the Primary and 15.
 LLP audited the Statutory Financial Statements on which they expressed Secondary Accounting Documents, the Secondary Accounting Documents are appropriate to unqualified audit opinions.
In conducting our subsequent examination of the Financial implement the principles contained in the Primary Accounting Documents.
Statements, and in providing the opinions in paragraph 19 below, we have not performed any additional tests of the transactions and balances which are recorded in the general ledgers and 10.
"We also report our opinion as to whether each of the Market Summary Statements for the selected other accounting records beyond those already performed for the purpose of the audits of the markets listed below the ""PPIA Markets "" Statutory Financial Statements."
o Call origination on fixed public narrowband networks on page 65: 16.
Having regard to the above: o Local-tandem conveyance & transit on fixed public narrowband networks on page 67: i we conducted our examination of the Financial Statements in accordance with International o Single transit on fixed public narrowband networks on page 68: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our work o Technical areas interconnect circuits on page 69: and included examination on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in o Fixed call termination on page 71. the Financial Statements.
In respect of the Market Financial Statements as a whole, each of the Market Group Statements, each of the FPIA Markets and the Openreach Information it also are properly prepared in accordance with the relevant procedures, defined in the Primary and included an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Company in Secondary Accounting Documents, and comply with the requirements of the Final Statements and their preparation: Notifications.
We also report whether, in forming that opinion, having reviewed the Primary and Secondary Accounting Documents, anything has come to our attention that would lead us to ii we planned and performed our examination of the Financial Statements so as to obtain all the conclude that the principles and procedures contained in the Primary and Secondary Accounting information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with Documents have not been properly applied in the preparation of the PPIA Markets.
sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Market Financial Statements as a whole, each of the Market Group Statements, each of the FPIA Markets and the Openreach 13 Section 3 - Audit Report Information are fairly presented in accordance with the relevant Primary Accounting [c] each of the FPIA Markets for the year ended 31 March 2010, fairly presents in accordance with Documents and, on that basis, are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud the Primary Accounting Documents dated 28 July 2010 the results, mean capital employed and or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of costs incurred by each of the markets and complies with the requirements of the Final Statethe presentation of information in the Financial Statements: ments and Notifications: iii we planned and performed our examination of the PPIA Markets so as to obtain all the [d] except in respect of the Single transit on fixed public narrowband networks market as described information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with in paragraph 18 above, each of the PPIA Markets for the year ended 31 March 2010 have been sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that each of the PPIA Markets are properly properly prepared in accordance with the procedures, if any, defined in the Primary and Secprepared in accordance with the procedures, defined in the relevant Primary and Secondary ondary Accounting Documents all dated 28 July 2010 and complies with the requirements of Accounting Documents.
However, as explained in the introduction to the Primary Accounting the Final Statements and Notifications: Documents, the Primary Accounting Documents contain only the high level principles of [e] the Re-presented Market Financial Statements as a whole for the year ended 31 March 2009 attribution.
The Secondary Accounting Documents contain only the procedures describing are fairly presented in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents dated 13 August how these high level principles are applied.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the 2009, and comply with the requirements of the Final Statements and Notifications as amendoverall adequacy of the presentation of information in the PPIA Market Statements.
"ed, where applicable, in accordance with ""Comparability of current and prior year results"" on 17."
In forming our opinions on the Market Financial Statements as a whole, each of the Market Group page 17: Statements and each of the FPIA Markets we also reviewed the Company's Secondary Accounting [f] the Openreach Information for the year ended 31 March 2010, which has been prepared in acDocuments which describe how the principles contained in the Primary Accounting Documents are cordance with the Primary Accounting Documents dated 28 July 2010, fairly presents in acimplemented.
Our review consisted of reading the Secondary Accounting Documents and cordance with the Primary Accounting Documents dated 28 July 2010 the results, mean capital considering whether each of the significant attribution and valuation methodologies described in employed and costs incurred by the Company and complies with the requirements of the Unthese documents are consistent with the principles described on pages 18 to 19 of the Primary Accounting Documents.
dertakings and the Final Statement and Notifications: and 18.
Consistent with the basis of preparation of the Statutory Financial Statements, the Market [g] In the context of a and b and c above, the Secondary Accounting Documents all dated 28 Financial Statements are presented in figures rounded to the nearest whole million pounds.
Where July 2010 are appropriate to implement the principles contained in the Primary Accounting the total costs, revenues, assets or liabilities of a market are very small relative to the overall size of Documents dated 28 July 2010. the Group we are unable to form an opinion as to whether those Market Statements are properly prepared in accordance with the principles set out on pages 1 to 3 of the Primary Accounting Documents.
As agreed with the Company and Ofcom, the Market Summary Statement for Single Other matter Ofcom Statement on BT's Current Cost Financial Statements 2010 transit on fixed public narrowband networks on page 68 is unaudited and we do not express an 20.
Our opinions on the Financial Statements are based on the available information up to the date of opinion on this market.
In Section 4.1 of the Financial Statements BT describes the basis of valuation of duct and its associated structures and how the CCA adjustments arising from this valuation are treated in the Financial Statements.
"We are aware that, as described in their ""Statement on BT's Current Opinion Cost Financial Statements 2010"", Ofcom are planning to undertake an assessment of the 19."
In our opinion: methodology and calculations adopted by BT in the valuation of duct and copper access network assets which will feed into their next consultation on the charges for Wholesale Line rental and [a] the Market Financial Statements as a whole for the year ended 31 March 2010, which have Unbundled Local Loop services.
This assessment and consultation may potentially give rise to been prepared in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents dated 28 July 2010, changes in methodologies used for preparing the Regulatory Financial Statements in the future.
fairly present in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents dated 28 July 2010 the results, mean capital employed and costs incurred by the Company and comply with the requirements of the Final Statements and Notifications: [b] each of the Market Group Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010, fairly presents in  LLP cordance with the Primary Accounting Documents dated 28 July 2010 the results, mean capital Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors employed and costs incurred by the Company and complies with the requirements of the Final London, 28 July 2010 Statements and Notifications: 14 Section 4 - Basis of Preparation Section 4 - Basis of Preparation Section 4 Basis of Preparation 15 Section 4 - Basis of Preparation Insofar as there is any inconsistency between any or all of the Primary Accounting Documents, the Section 4.1 - Introduction to the Basis of Preparation Section 4.1 Introduction to the Basis of Preparation Primary Accounting Documents shall have the order of priority as listed above.
The ultimate holding company of the BT Group is BT Group plc referred to together with its subsidiary The economic Markets defined by Ofcoms Final Statements and Notifications do not correspond to the and associated undertakings and joint ventures as the Group or BT.
Substantially all the businesses way in which the Group is organised for management and accounting purposes.
The Current Cost and activities of the Group are carried out by British Telecommunications plc the Company, its Financial Statements are therefore produced by overlaying the requirements of the regulatory subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures.
reporting framework on the management and accounting structure of the Group.
BTs Current Cost Financial Statements are not statutory accounts within the meaning of the Companies As far as possible, revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are directly associated with a product group or Act 1985.
The Company has, by agreement with BT Group plc, prepared the Current Cost Financial component using information held within the Groups accounting records and are directly attributed to Statements in accordance with the Accounting Documents, by disaggregating balances recorded in the that item.
Where no such direct association is possible, the remaining revenues, costs, assets and general ledgers and other accounting records of the Group.
liabilities are apportioned between two or more markets, services or components using a fully allocated accounting system and employing apportionment bases that reflect as far as possible the causality of The basis of preparation and accounting policies adopted by the Group is detailed in BT Groups Annual the revenue, cost, asset or liability.
BTs Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2010 on which the auditors made an unqualified report, did not contain a statement under Section 237 2 or 3 of the The amounts of revenue, cost and capital employed attributed to markets, services and components Companies Act 2006 and has been delivered to the Registrar of Companies.
depend critically on the methods of attribution adopted.
Typically, in a fully allocated accounting system, a range of attribution methods is available.
In selecting appropriate attribution methods and The Accounting Documents means together the Primary Accounting Documents, the Secondary appropriate non-financial data for use within the attribution models employed in the production of Accounting Documents and the Wholesale Catalogue.
The Primary Accounting Documents set out the these Current Cost Financial Statements, BT has had to make certain estimates and exercise its framework under which the Statements are to be prepared.
The Secondary Accounting Documents judgement, having regard to the regulatory accounting principles, including cost causality and namely the Detailed Attribution methods DAM, the Detailed Valuation Methodology DVM and the objectivity, in order to comply with the requirements of the Primary Accounting Documents.
Long Run Incremental Costs: Relationships and Parameters R&P set out more detailed descriptions of the policies, methodologies, systems, processes and procedures for deriving and calculating the costs, BT seeks to review and update non-financial data used within the attribution models at least annually.
revenues, assets and liabilities underlying the Current Cost Financial Statements.
Certain non-financial data employed for the purposes of the Current Cost Financial Statements has been determined by sampling techniques appropriate to that data.
BT reviews and updates attribution The Primary Accounting Documents set out the: methods and non-financial data sources on an ongoing basis and, where deemed appropriate, will 1.
Regulatory Accounting Principles - which means the principles applied or used by BT in the make improvements.
Depending on the nature of the change, this may require Ofcoms prior consent.
preparation of the Current Cost Financial Statements, for example, that all costs should be fully The Final Statements and Notifications continue to require significant granularity in the Current Cost allocated.
When preparing financial statements at a very granular level it is not always 2.
Attribution Methods - which means a high level summary of the practices used by BT to attribute possible to develop a directly cost causal and objective method of cost apportionment and these revenue including appropriate Transfer Charges, costs including appropriate Transfer Charges Financial Statements have been prepared on the basis of the methodologies BT considers to be the most assets and liabilities to activities or, insofar as those activities have been aggregated to wholesale appropriate.
However, in respect of the very small wholesale services within certain of the wholesale segments in a given Market or Technical Area as applicable, to each wholesale segment.
markets, BT is aware that, in following the generic methodologies for attribution of common costs set out in the Detailed Attribution Methods, anomalies may exist in the year on year cost trends in certain 3.
Transfer Charge System Methodology - which means the methodology of the system employed by services.
However, costing methodologies and non-financial data sources will be subject to ongoing BT that enables an activity to use a service from another activity and to account for it as though it review, and where deemed appropriate, improvements made.
had purchased that service from an unrelated party including accounting for it at an appropriate amount.
BTs costing systems used in the preparation of the Current Cost Financial Statements to attribute revenues, costs, assets and liabilities to SMP Markets take as their starting point the general ledgers of 4.
Accounting Policies - which means the manner in which the requirements of the Companies Act the Group which are maintained to the nearest penny.
This level of granularity is maintained 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and BTs accounting policies whenever not superseded by throughout the costing process.
However, to be consistent with the presentation of the results of the the Regulatory Accounting Principles, are applied by BT in each of the Current Cost Financial Group in the Statutory Financial Statements, the results for each SMP Market are presented in figures Statements.
This document details the accounting policies adopted in preparing the underlying rounded to the nearest whole million pounds.
Due to the level of granularity of reporting such as the financial information.
disaggregation of costs by sector within each profit and loss account and in order to present the most 5.
Long Run Incremental Cost LRIC Methodology - means the long run incremental cost appropriate view of individual sector costs and the appropriate return for each market it has been principles, procedures and processes which form the framework under which long run incremental necessary to introduce separate rounding figures in the profit and loss accounts.
The same principle costs are determined by BT.
This document sets out the principles followed to derive the long run has been adopted in all statements in order to achieve internal consistency.
16 Section 4 - Basis of Preparation Charges from Wholesale Markets to Retail Residual CCA adjustments The Mean Capital Employed statements for the Wholesale Markets include balances relating to the a The Current Cost Financial Statements for the Group are prepared under the Financial Capital charges from the Wholesale Markets to Retail Residual.
Retail Residual is deemed to settle these Maintenance convention in accordance with the principles set out in the handbook Accounting for the charges in the same 43-day period as other operators, as agreed with Ofcom.
effects of changing prices, published in 1986 by the Accounting Standards Committee.
The Network Statements of Costs on a current cost basis show component unit costs on a 24-hour basis.
Set out below is a summary of the treatment of the CCA adjustments within the Current Cost Financial However, charges to Retail Residual and other Communications Providers CPs for call conveyance Statements: services vary by the time period, e. g. day or evening, during which the service was purchased.
The Changes in fixed asset values are referred to as holding gains or losses arising during the year charges for other Wholesale Services to Retail Residual and other CPs do not require adjustment for the and are attributed between all SMP Markets, Technical Areas, Components and Wholesale time of day at which they are purchased.
Services on the same basis as the associated assets.
The one-off exception to this for 2010 is the treatment of the holding gain arising on duct described in the CCA Revaluation Adjustment Comparability of current and prior year results section below, which is attributed between SMP Markets and Technical Areas, but is excluded from Components and Wholesale Services see below.
There have been a number of changes in the year that impact on the comparability of the current and A supplementary depreciation adjustment on fixed assets arising from differences between prior year results.
These are due to: historic cost account HCA and current cost account CCA valuations is also attributed between a Changes to BTs financial reporting obligations as set out in the Final Statements and Notifications the various Markets, Technical Areas, Components and Wholesale Services.
and listed below and explained in Section 4.2: Other CCA adjustments e. g. once-off changes in valuations due to a revised methodology are included in the current cost valuations and are also attributed between all Markets, Technical The Fixed Narrowband Retail Services Market Review Statement: Areas, Components and Wholesale Services on the same basis as the associated assets.
The Review of the Fixed Narrowband Services Wholesale Markets Statement: exception to this is the treatment of the other CCA adjustments arising on duct, which is Full Implementation of the Business Connectivity Market Review BCMR Statement: attributed between SMP Markets and Technical Areas, but is excluded from Components and Wholesale Services.
Improvements to Leased Line Reporting: The inflation adjustment to ordinary shareholders funds is not relevant to the SMP Markets, Improvements to Openreach Reporting: Technical Areas and Wholesale Services for which Current Cost Financial Statements are Improved disclosure of AISBO services: prepared.
In addition, no CCA adjustment has been made to the valuation of goodwill as this is Changes to the attribution of Twenty-First Century Network 21CN costs following a change in also not relevant to the SMP Markets, Technical Areas and Wholesale Services.
network roll-out strategy: and b The CCA valuation of assets is affected by external factors such as changes in market prices and Other minor changes to the presentation of the Current Cost Financial Statements.
changes to BTs CCA policies and practices.
For the year ended 31 March 2010, this resulted in a net decrease in the operating costs in SMP Markets and Technical Areas in these Financial Statements of b Changes to the presentation of the CCA revaluation adjustment in respect of duct as explained about 2,400m, which is mainly attributed to: below.
The valuation of the duct assets has increased due to a change in the unit cost assumed for c Improvements to the presentation of the Technical Areas Interconnect Circuits market.
building duct as part of a programme to build the network.
d The prior year BT Reconciliation Statement 2009 Annex 19 has been restated to reflect the The valuation of the copper access network assets has been increased significantly by the rise changes in BTs Annual Report for Share Based Payments.
during the year of the price of copper, which is a key element of the cost of copper cable.
e The prior year comparatives have been re-presented to reflect the following: CCA Revaluation Adjustment The removal of reporting obligations for certain SMP markets as explained in Section 4.2: and The removal of reporting obligations for Retail Markets as explained in Section 4.2.
In the Regulatory Financial Statements, BT revalues its assets under the Financial Capital Maintenance FCM concept of Current Cost Accounting.
The approach to the valuation is set out in detail in the There were no other restatements or re-presentations.
The presentation of the CCA revaluation adjustment has been described below.
All other changes which For assets valued on an absolute valuation basis the volumes of assets in use are multiplied by the impact the comparability of the current and prior year results in these Current Cost Financial Statements current replacement cost.
In the case of duct and its associated structures manholes, joint boxes and have been described in Section 4.2. cabinets the current replacement cost is based on the current contractual price which BT pays for the construction of these assets.
The contractual price is reduced by the application of a discount factor to 17 Section 4 - Basis of Preparation reflect the efficiencies, including economies of scale, revisions in working practices and the effects of However, as agreed with Ofcom, the Current Cost Financial Statements for 2010 have not implemented competitive tendering.
These efficiencies could be achieved if the duct network were being replaced as the Ofcom methodologies and therefore have not adjusted the value of copper assets to Ofcoms a whole over a reasonable period of time in order to reflect the scenario which would apply to a new assessed Regulatory Asset Valuation.
As disclosed in the Detailed Valuation Methodology dated 13 August 2009, in 2008 09 and prior years the degree of discount applied was 45%.
The size of the discount is necessarily a matter of judgement and was supported by the views of a number of senior managers within BT based on indirect evidence from tenders for work in related areas.
During 2009 10 BT moved to a single national supplier for civil engineering.
The civil engineering supplier provides services to BT in a way that supports analysis of the effects of increasing the size of the contract.
This new data has facilitated a more detailed assessment of the benefits which would be available to BT from a planned, geographically focused, national construction process compared to the current pattern of smaller, more scattered jobs.
This analysis demonstrated that the reduction in contract prices which could be achieved is limited to 14.5% against the new civil engineering services contract prices.
Part of the difference between this and the discount factor applied in 2008 09 is accounted for by the reduction in prices negotiated during the tender for the new contract.
The application of this revised management estimate to the valuation of assets at 31 March 2010 results in a holding gain, net of backlog depreciation, on BTs duct assets of 1,880m.
The FCM approach to current cost accounting requires that the holding gain is included in the profit and loss account with the result that CCA costs are reduced in the year the gain occurs and returns correspondingly increase.
Whilst this large holding gain has been recognised in 2009 10 it does not represent a genuine periodic change in the valuation of the duct assets.
BT believes that it results in an artificial upwards distortion of returns in the year.
In accordance with the FCM concept these CCA adjustments are included in the Consolidated Performance Summary, the Market Summary for each SMP market and the reconciliation statements.
These adjustments are shown in the last two columns and include the words excl.
e. g. Section 7.1 Financial Performance in Access Markets Annex 7 where the last two columns read Return excl.
h. However, BT has agreed with Ofcom that: alternative information will also be supplied the Consolidated Performance Summary, Attribution of Wholesale Current Costs and the Market Summary for each SMP market also show a calculation of the return excluding the duct holding gain and related backlog depreciation to provide a more meaningful view of the underlying rate of return.
all service and component unit cost information shown in the notes to each Market Summary and Appendices 1.1 to 1.3 for 2010 exclude this holding gain and related backlog depreciation.
Regulatory Valuation of Copper-Based Local Access Network Assets In August 2005, Ofcom introduced an alternative methodology for determining its view of the current cost regulatory asset value of the copper-based local access network.
This methodology, which results in a lower valuation, is used only by Ofcom for regulatory purposes and is not reflected in the methodologies employed by BT in producing the Current Cost Financial Statements or required within the asset values of BT Groups Annual Report.
18 Section 4 - Basis of Preparation Removed the estimated costs of other single payments, resilience and third party equipment Section 4.2 - Other Aspects to the Basis of Preparation Annex 22 Section 4.2 Other Aspects of Basis of Preparation Annex 22 and infrastructure charges support costs from the costs of unrelated services in the TISBO, AISBO and Wholesale Trunk Segments markets.
Key changes as a result of certain regulatory decisions Separately reported the trunk and distribution sub 2Mbit s revenues in the TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s market.
The notes below refer to key changes as a result of Ofcoms statement Changes to BT and KCOMs regulatory and financial reporting 2009 10 update issued 4 June 2010 that impact the Current Cost Separately reported enhanced maintenance revenues and costs in the Wholesale Trunk Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010.
a Fixed Narrowband Retail Services Market Review Statement Following Ofcoms Leased Lines Charge Control Statement, published in July 2009, BT is reporting five Points of Handover services in the Technical Areas Point of Handover market.
The prior year has not In September 2009, Ofcom published its Fixed Narrowband Retail Services Market Review statement.
The review concluded that BT no longer has Significant Market Power SMP in the supply of retail fixed narrowband analogue access and retail calls markets in either the residential or business sectors.
As a e Improvements to Openreach Reporting result, BTs financial reporting obligations in these markets were revoked and BT is no longer required BT has reviewed the allocation of costs between Openreach regulated and non regulated services in the to report the financial results of any retail market.
Current Cost Financial Statements for 2010.
BT has identified the following cost categories as The Retail Residual results for the prior year have been re-presented in the BT Reconciliation beingwholly allocated to non regulated services: Statements to reflect these changes in 2010.
Time Related Charges TRC are used to price work that is outside the normal scope of Openreach b Review of the Fixed Narrowband Services Wholesale Markets Statement Services.
This includes work carried out on new Housing Estates where an agreement is madewith the Builders Councils Housing Associations to install dropwire while the building In September 2009, Ofcom published its Review of the Fixed Narrowband Services Wholesale Markets work is in progress as opposed to waiting for the first occupier to order a line.
It also includes any statement.
The review introduced three main reporting changes in the Regulatory Financial repair work that is out of Openreach area of responsibility e. g. a fault that is caused by Statements: something beyond the Network Terminating Equipment.
In 2009 10 BT was able to identify The wholesale residential and business analogue exchange line markets will be defined as one costs that were specifically associated with this work and point the costs to the TRC service that wholesale analogue exchange line market.
is included in Other Openreach Markets & Activities with no SMP reporting obligations.
The wholesale residential and business ISDN2 exchange lines will be defined as one wholesale Special Fault Investigations relates to faults on LLU lines that are reported at the request of a ISDN2 market.
Communications Provider and where no fault is discovered on the Openreach Network.
Openreach offers this service to locate where the fault has occurred and charges the CP.
The BT will no longer be required to report on the local tandem conveyance and transit market in the costs associated with this work are booked to the normal repair account codes and could not be Regulatory Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011. separately identified in 2008 09.
In 2009 10 a man hour analysis has been used to work out The corresponding results for the prior year in the wholesale analogue and ISDN2 exchange line what proportion of repair costs is proper to the SFI service and the appropriate costs have been markets have been re-presented in 2010. moved to reflect this.
Openreach have identified volumes of fibre circuits plus CCTV specific costs and pointed them to c Full Implementation of the Business Connectivity Market Review BCMR Statement the Redcare service that is in the Other Openreach Markets & Activities with no SMP reporting In December 2008, Ofcom published its BCMR statement removing regulation on markets for low and obligations.
high bandwidth TI terminating segments in the Central and East London Area CELA.
However, due to The prior year has not been restated for any of the above.
the timing of the BCMR statement and the complexities involved in geographic reporting, the results relating to the CELA continued to be reported within the relevant SMP markets in 2009.
These changes f Improved disclosure of AISBO services have now been fully implemented in the 2010 Current Cost Financial Statements.
In the Current Cost Financial Statements for 2010, BT will be reporting on Wholesale Extension WES In the BCMR statement, Ofcom also set out its view over the reporting for Netstream.
Although it was 2, Ethernet Backhaul Direct EBD and Ethernet Access Direct EAD services in the AISBO Market.
As a not possible to reflect the changes to Netstream reporting in 2009 these changes have been result, some AISBO services will have revenues and costs significantly below the 10m guidance implemented in the Current Cost Financial Statements for 2010. threshold for reporting.
The prior year has not been restated.
d Improvements to Leased Line Reporting g Other minor changes to the presentation of the Current Cost Financial Statements To improve the transparency of the 2010 Current Cost Financial Statements, BT has: The presentation of the Financial Statements has been simplified by two changes: Deletion of Return on Turnover information.
19 Section 4 - Basis of Preparation The column for Internal sales services only provided internally has been combined with the column for Internal sales services also provided externally to provide one Internal sales column.
h Presentation of Technical Areas Interconnect Circuits market In addition to the above changes, detailed in the Changes to BT and KCOMs regulatory and financial reporting 2009 10 update issued 4 June 2010, it was agreed with Ofcom to improve the presentation of the Technical Areas Interconnect Circuits market to better reflect the services sold to Communications Providers.
Twenty-First Century Network 21CN BT has now completed the new 21CN core network which is a unified software driven platform.
It helps in meeting our customers needs faster and more efficiently whether they are delivered over copper or fibre.
It also reduces the time it takes to get new services to market, eliminating duplication and reducing costs.
To date, BT has enabled ADSL2 broadband services for over 10 million UK homes and businesses and has so far migrated or provided new broadband services to over 1.25 million end users as at the end of March 2010 on the new service.
It is also providing new Ethernet services to fixed and mobile operators and business customers across the widest Ethernet footprint in the UK market.
BT announced on 21 April 2010 that it has decided to halt further voice lines migrations to the 21CN voice platform.
This has been reflected in the cost methodologies for this years Current Cost Financial Statements.
The 21CN voice platform and the end users connected to it will be fully maintained.
In 2008, BT introduced components to capture 21CN related costs in the Current Cost Financial Statements.
This is aimed at providing transparency to the costs and where they are being attributed to ensure an effective reporting regime as the new network comes into use.
BT has developed parallel legacy and 21CN costing methodologies such that the 21CN costs are exhausted to legacy services based on the relative usage of legacy assets.
The change in migrating further voice lines announced by BT on 21 April 2010 means that there is a corresponding alteration in the allocation of costs to voice for the relevant 21CN assets compared to prior years.
As 21CN evolves it is likely that changes to the design and architecture and usage of the network will necessitate updates to the cost allocations in order to properly reflect these and any future changes.
20 Section 5 - Summary of Financial Performance Section 5 - Summary of Financial Performance Section 5 Summary of Financial Performance 21 Section 5 - Summary of Financial Performance Section 5.1 - Consolidated Performance Summary Annex 3 CCA return before Return taxation on MCE CCA CCA return excl.
Supporting For the year ended 31 March 2010 Turnover costs taxation MCE on MCE h adj.
24 Wholesale analogue exchange line services Wholesale ISDN2 exchange line services Wholesale business ISDN30 exchange line services TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s TISBO above 8Mbit s up to and including 45Mbit s TISBO above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s AISBO up to and including 1Gbit s Wholesale local access Total Access Markets Call origination on fixed public narrowband networks Local-tandem conveyance and transit on fixed public narrowband networks Single transit on fixed public narrowband networks Technical areas Interconnect Circuits Fixed call termination Wholesale trunk segments Technical areas Point of Handover Sub-total Other Wholesale & SMP National Markets Wholesale broadband access market 1 - BT only operator Wholesale broadband access market 2 - 2 to 3 principal operators Wholesale broadband access market 3 4 or more principle operators and non geographic Sub-total Other Wholesale & SMP Geographic Markets Total Other Wholesale & SMP Markets Wholesale Residual Total Markets Section 6 - Attribution of Wholesale Current Cost and Mean Capital Employed Section 6.1.
1 - Notes on Wholesale P&L sector costs Other Costs Section 6.1.
1 - Notes on Wholesale P&L sector costs Other Costs are dominated by payments to other UK communications providers, but also include The notes below are intended to provide a brief description of the sectors reported in the Attribution of payments to overseas administrations and internal product transfer charge costs.
The key drivers Wholesale Current Cost statement and the key drivers of these sectors to aid the user of the Current Cost include the pence per minute charging of the other operators for BT traffic on their network.
Further details of these sectors can be found in the Detailed Attributions Methods DAM which outlines in detail the key bases, descriptions and drivers of the network Depreciation components.
Depreciation is analysed between land and buildings, access, switch and transmission and other Provision Maintenance including network power, computers and software.
The key drivers are the surveys of BTs asset base that allocate the depreciation charge through classes of work on the basis of surveys and engineering Provision Maintenance includes costs of network provision, installation and maintenance.
The most models and direct mapping of BT classes of work COW to network components and then onto the material cost relates to D side copper which is allocated on the basis of the number of lines.
appropriate service based on usage factors and actual service volumes.
Network Support Network Support contains costs of activities necessary to support the running of BTs network plant support costs such as group property.
The key drivers for the apportionment of network support costs include pay, the relative floor space occupied by fixed assets and the current cost replacement value of assets.
General Support Wholesale General Support includes planning, development, supplies, transport, computing, customer service, personnel & administration, customer support and other general support costs.
The key drivers for the apportionment of general support include pay costs and various activity surveys.
General Management General Management includes operator services, costs of general management activities and other general expenses.
The key drivers for the apportionment of general management include analysis of call minutes for operator services, various activity surveys and pay costs.
Finance and Billing Finance and Billing includes costs associated with activities of a financial nature, such as budget building, management reporting, and billing and collection costs.
The key drivers for the apportionment of finance and billing include various activity surveys and pay costs.
Accommodation The wholesale accommodation sector includes exchange and office building costs.
Wholesale accommodation costs are mainly apportioned based on the usage of floor space and different utilities.
Bad Debts Bad debts include costs associated with writing off amounts that cannot be collected from customers.
The key driver is revenue.
1 - Notes on Wholesale MCE sector costs Transmission Section 6.3.
1 - Notes on Wholesale MCE sector costs This sector contains the asset values for transmission.
Transmission includes Core Transmission The notes below are intended to provide a brief description of the Fixed Asset sectors and Working Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH, Plesiosynchronous Digital Hierarchy PDH, Asynchronous Capital reported in the Attribution of Wholesale Current Cost Mean Capital Employed statement and the Transfer Mode ATM, Cables and Repeaters.
The Core Transmission is used to link exchanges.
The key key drivers of the sector to aid the user of the Financial Statements.
Further details of these sectors can drivers are the surveys of BTs asset base that allocate the depreciation charge through classes of work be found in the Detailed Attribution Methods DAM which outlines in detail the key bases, descriptions on the basis of surveys, engineering models and direct mapping of COW to network components and and drivers of the network components.
then onto the appropriate service based on usage factors and actual service volumes.
Land & Buildings Other This sector contains the asset values that are booked to BT Classes of Work COWs for land and This sector contains the asset values for a range of assets used by BT Businesses including categories buildings, including freehold, long leases and short leases.
The sector includes corporate offices, and such as Software, Motor Transport and 21CN.
The key drivers are the surveys of BTs asset base that network buildings owned by BT.
Asset values are mainly apportioned based on the usage of floor space allocate the depreciation charge through classes of work on the basis of surveys, engineering models and the usage of the different utilities.
and direct mapping of COW to network components and then onto the appropriate service based on usage factors and actual service volumes.
Access - Copper This sector contains the asset values for access copper all the copper cables in the access network and Working Capital all other necessary equipment required to carry signals between the user and the exchange.
This is split The figures for debtors and creditors include an approximation of the internal notional debtors and into Main and Distribution Copper.
The key drivers are the surveys of BTs asset base that allocate creditors that would be incurred if trades between BTs lines of business were undertaken to a third the depreciation charge through classes of work on the basis of surveys, engineering models and direct party and at arms length.
They are based upon the average trading terms of BT Groups external trades.
mapping of COW to network components and then onto the appropriate service based on usage factors External debtors reflect BTs external debts being allocated to services and products.
Access - Fibre This sector contains the asset values for access fibre.
The key drivers are the surveys of BTs asset base that allocate the depreciation charge through classes of work on the basis of surveys, engineering models and direct mapping of COW to network components and then onto the appropriate service based on usage factors and actual service volumes.
Access - Duct This sector contains the asset values for duct.
Duct is a pipe, tube or conduit through which underground cables are passed.
Switch This sector contains the asset values for switching equipment.
This equipment is located in BT exchanges.
The key drivers are the surveys of BTs asset base that allocate the depreciation charge through classes of work on the basis of surveys and engineering models and direct mapping of COW to network component and then onto the appropriate service based on usage factors and actual service volumes.
Internal External Roundings Total CCA Operating Capital Return on reval.
For the year ended 31 March 2010 Turnover Turnover Turnover Turnover HCA Costs Adjustments Roundings costs Return Employed MCE adj.
31 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.2 - Access Markets Review Annex 10 & 14 Section 7.2.
1 - Access Markets Group Level Review Annex 10 Section 7.2.
1 - Access Markets Group Level Review Annex 10 Overall in the WLR Access markets, there is a reduction in copper lines due to the difficult macroeconomic conditions, continuing migrations to MPF and a shift to mobile alternatives.
The slowdown in the economy has led to an increase in business closures and fewer new business expansions and startups.
Meanwhile, the LLU operators migrated significant numbers of lines previously using WLR and SMPF to full MPF.
The cumulative impact of reduced copper lines and product mix change has been to reduce revenue by circa 80m 2%.
Overall returns in TISBO markets have increased whereas returns in the wholesale trunk market have decreased.
Prior to the Leased Lines Charge Control LLCC, BT had already made amendments to some wholesale trunk and TISBO prices.
Ofcom made some adjustments to these prices via the LLCC.
The overall effect was a rebalancing between wholesale trunk and TISBO.
Both TISBO and the wholesale trunk market are now subject to price controls as a result of the LLCC.
The charges resulting from the LLCC are the subject of an appeal in front of the Competition Appeal Tribunal, where one Communications Provider has appealed against Ofcoms decision.
The Alternative Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination AISBO market has continued to show growth in WES and EAD products due to the increased demand from mobile operators and a general migration from older technologies including the products within the TISBO market.
Revenues have remained flat due to the full impact of price reductions made in February 2009 now being reflected in the annual revenue.
Additionally in January 2010 there were price reductions in line with the LLCC Statement.
Historic costs have remained flat: this is mostly a combination of lower provision and maintenance costs, reduced fault rates on the copper network and reduced depreciation on legacy switch and transmission assets which is offset by investment in BTs 21CN network.
CCA adjustments have decreased by around 2,550m: this is primarily caused by the large holding gain arising from i the revaluation of duct see Section 4.1 Basis of Preparation and ii the rise in copper commodity prices compared to the large holding losses arising from large decreases in copper commodity prices in 2008 09.
Access Markets Openreach Level Review A calculation of the return for all Openreach markets has been performed and is described as part of the Openreach Notes in Section 10.7.
This explains the return before and after adjusting for a number of significant items.
32 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.2.
2 - Access Market Level Financial Review Annex 14 Market: Wholesale ISDN2 Exchange Line Services Section 7.2.
2 - Access Market Level Financial Review Annex 14 Definition Market: Wholesale Analogue Exchange Line Services The links between an end user and the remote concentrator unit by means of ISDN2 technology.
Definition Digital ISDN2 exchange lines are basic rate ISDN lines, which provide a means to deploy a wide range The links between an end user and the remote concentrator unit by means of analogue technology.
of digital services over a standard local loop.
A single ISDN2 line supports two 64Kbit s channels for voice and data calls, plus a 16Kbit s channel for signalling.
An analogue exchange line provides a single 64Kbit s channel, designed originally to support voice traffic, but also capable of supporting data modems with bandwidths of up to 56Kbit s, DSL Services Key Regulatory Changes and facsimile traffic.
These are the most common types of exchange lines.
Ofcom published its Wholesale Fixed Narrowband Market Review on 15 September 2009.
This review Key Regulatory Changes determined that there are no longer two separate markets for Residential and Business ISDN2 exchange line services, rather there is a single market for wholesale ISDN2 exchange line services.
This review determined that there are no longer two separate markets for Residential and Business analogue BT continues to be found to have SMP in the wholesale ISDN2 market.
The only material change to the exchange line services, rather there is a single market for wholesale analogue exchange line services.
existing obligations has been a change to the time period associated with price notifications, which has decreased from 90 to 28 days for services other than the ISDN2 rental service.
Ofcom also published two Statements setting the Wholesale Line Rental WLR Charge Controls on 26 October 2009 and 23 February 2010.
These Statements set out the charge controls for WLR Analogue Key Market Changes services for the period 23 November 2009 to 31March 2011.
Given the change in market definition, Ofcom determined that it would set a single charge control to a core rental service rather than setting ISDN2 rental base has declined year on year as end users move to suitable alternatives such as IP separate controls for residential and business lines.
Openreach is required to make changes to its networks and V-Sat technology.
During the current economic climate SME end users who used ISDN2 residential analogue product such that it can also be used for business users to be referred to as the as a back-up to their primary service have simply ceased the product rather than pay for two services.
WLR Core rental service during 2010 11.
Demand for new connections has reduced significantly.
The charge controls that applied to WLR Analogue during 2009 10 included charge ceilings of 100.68 to the WLR residential rental services, 67 to connections and 3 to the WLR transfer charge.
Market: Wholesale Business ISDN30 Exchange Line Services Ofcom also re-introduced the charge ceiling of 110 for WLR business exchange lines services, which will expire when the WLR Core rental service is introduced in 2010 11.
The cost orientation obligation Definition was also removed for service levels beyond the WLR Core rental product.
The links between a business end user and the remote concentrator unit by means of ISDN30 On 24 December 2009, Carphone Warehouse lodged an appeal with the Competition Appeal Tribunal technology.
contesting certain parts of Ofcoms WLR Charge Control Statement of the 26 October 2009.
If successful, this could affect both future year WLR analogue prices in 2010 11.
Digital ISDN30 exchange lines are primary rate ISDN lines, which provide a means to deploy a wide range of digital services over a 2Mbit s bearer.
A single ISDN30 line supports thirty 64Kbit s channels Key Market Changes for voice and data calls, plus a 64Kbit s channel for signalling.
ISDN30 lines are used only by business customers, and always in conjunction with a business PBX Private Branch Exchange.
Residential rental lines have decreased significantly in 2009 10 as a result of the continuing migrations from WLR to MPF by Sky and TalkTalk and the poor economic conditions.
Key Regulatory Changes Business rentals have also declined in 2009 10 as a result of the current economic climate where there There have been no regulatory changes affecting these products in the 2009 10 period.
Ofcom did not has been an increase in business closures and end users within the SME market have looked to cut costs reach a conclusion on the ISDN30 market as part of its Wholesale Fixed Narrowband Market Review by moving to mobile or alternative technologies.
New Connections have increased year on year due to during 2009 10 and will separately review the market during 2010 11.
Should Ofcom introduce new a proactive commencement by large non-BT Communication Providers CPs of WLR new provides at regulation, this may impact financial reporting for 2010 11. the end of 2008 09 previously BT Retail BTR had completed 95% of all Basic new connections.
The Growth Incentive Offer will have stimulated the market with a lower connection price being backed by focused marketing activity by the CPs.
33 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Key Market Changes Basket & services Value Sub Caps Demand for ISDN30 continued declining in 2009 10 although at a more accelerated rate driven by the of X current economic conditions and changes in technology with Session Initiation Protocol SIP Trunking providing a more cost effective alternative.
TI - Low bandwidth connection 3.25 RPI-0% sub-cap on sub-basket of TISBO and rental.
RPI 5% sub-cap on each charge Market: Traditional Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination up to and excluding POH charges.
including 8Mbit s RPI 0% sub-cap on each charge POH charges only.
Definition POC end and third party end RPI-0 No charge can increase more than 5% in equipment charges.
Traditional Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination TISBO services include: Wholesale terminating segments PPCs.
All relevant ancillary services used RPI-0 None.
in the provision of TI services in Radio base station RBS backhaul including the Core Conveyance element.
Local Loop Unbundling LLU backhaul which consists of LLU backhaul trunk and LLU backhaul link.
LLU backhaul links are regarded as a symmetric broadband origination service and should therefore be included within the TISBO or AISBO markets, depending on the technology in use bandwidth considerations being taken into account in the case of the Synchronous Digital These controls run from 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2012.
In addition, Ofcom determined starting charges for terminating and trunk segments.
They also required Netstream 16 Long Line including the Core Conveyance element.
the introduction of separate Point of Handover rental charges to replace the current local end uplift factor included in the rental price of external local ends.
To balance the introduction of the new Ofcom also views SDSL as a symmetric broadband origination service and it is therefore included within separate Point of Handover charges, Ofcom required a corresponding reduction to external local end the TISBO market.
Ofcom has concluded that BT has SMP in the low, high and very high bandwidth TISBO markets outside The values of X in the charge control apply to BTs prices after these adjustments have been made.
Central and East London Area CELA as well as in the Trunk market at all bandwidths.
Consequently, it has imposed regulation on all relevant circuits and technical areas that fall within these markets, On 2 September 2009, Cable & Wireless lodged an appeal with the Competition Appeal Tribunal including RBS backhaul circuits.
contesting certain parts of Ofcoms Leased Line Charge Control Statement.
If successful, this could affect both future year wholesale line prices and prices for wholesale leased lines in 2010 11.
Key Regulatory Changes Key Market Changes On 8 December 2008 Ofcom published its Final Statement on the Business Connectivity Market Review.
Ofcom found BT to continue to have SMP in the low bandwidth TISBO market.
For PPCs there continues to be migration of external customers from 64K bit circuits to 2M bit circuits.
In addition the demand for Time Division Multiplexing TDM circuits has started to decline as customers Ofcom increased regulation in the trunk market by imposing a charge control and requiring prices to be migrate to 21CN services.
In addition, Ofcom changed the definition of trunk segments from one based on links between two BT SDH Tier 1 nodes to one based on routes between defined major urban areas.
This Price changes in the market took place in September and October 2009 and again in March 2010 to new methodology was backdated to 8 December 2008 and impacts upon prices for 2009 10. enable compliance with the charge control Statement and obligations.
Ofcom imposed additional Service Level Agreement Service Level Guarantee requirements from In the Mobile Market, as evidenced by the increase of 2Mbit s circuits, we are seeing growth of December 2008. bandwidth from mobile customers to enable them to use new mass market mobile broadband services, music downloads, other bandwidth-hungry applications and mobile TV.
Following a separate Consultation, Ofcom published on 2 September 2009 its Statement on the Leased Lines Charge Controls.
Ofcom imposed the following RPI X% charge control on low bandwidth TISBO RBS prices changed in line with changes to PPC pricing.
services as a remedy to its finding of SMP for BT note that there is a single overall TI basket comprising connection and rental for low bandwidth, high bandwidth and very high bandwidth TISBO services as well as rental for Trunk services : 34 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Market: Traditional Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination above 8Mbit s Basket Value of X Sub Caps up to and including 45Mbit s TI-High bandwidth connection 3.25 RPI - 0% sub-cap on sub-basket of Definition and rental outside CELA.
Traditional Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination TISBO services include: RPI 5% sub-cap on each charge excluding POH charges.
RPI 0% sub-cap on each charge Local Loop Unbundling LLU backhaul which consists of LLU backhaul trunk and LLU backhaul POH charges only.
LLU backhaul links are regarded as a symmetric broadband origination service and should therefore be included within the TISBO or AISBO markets, depending on the technology in use - POC end and third party end RPI-0 No charge can increase more than bandwidth considerations being taken into account in the case of the SDH technology.
Netstream 16 Long Line including the Core Conveyance element.
Ofcom also views SDSL as a symmetric broadband origination service and it is therefore included within in the provision of TI services in the TISBO market.
Ofcom has concluded that BT has SMP in the low, high and very high bandwidth TISBO markets outside the Central and East London Area CELA as well as in the Trunk market at all bandwidths.
Consequently, it has imposed regulation on all relevant circuits and technical areas that fall within these markets, These controls run from 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2012. including RBS backhaul circuits.
In addition, Ofcom determined starting charges for Terminating and trunk segments.
They also required the introduction of separate Point of Handover rental charges to replace the current local end uplift Key Regulatory Changes factor included in the rental price of external local ends.
To balance the introduction of the new In December 2008 Ofcom published its Final Statement on the Business Connectivity Market Review.
separate Point of Handover charges, Ofcom required a corresponding reduction to external local end Ofcom found BT to continue to have SMP in the high bandwidth TISBO market but only outside the prices.
Central and East London Area CELA as well as in the market for trunk segments at all bandwidths.
The values of X in the charge control apply to BTs prices after these adjustments have been made.
Ofcom increased regulation in the Trunk market by imposing a charge control and requiring prices to be On 2 September 2009, Cable & Wireless lodged an appeal with the Competition Appeal Tribunal notified at 90 days.
It also changed the definition of trunk segments from one based on links between contesting certain parts of Ofcoms Leased Line Charge Control Statement.
If successful, this could two BT SDH Tier 1 nodes to one based on routes between defined major urban areas.
This new affect both future year wholesale line prices and prices for wholesale leased lines in 2010 11. methodology was backdated to 8 December 2008 and impacts upon prices for 2009 10.
Ofcom also imposed more stringent Service Level Agreement Service Level Guarantee requirements Key Market Changes which will impact future years.
Despite some PPC migration from the lower bandwidth market and deregulation in CELA, significant Following a separate Consultation, Ofcom published on 2 September 2009 its Statement on the Leased competition has affected this market resulting in falling volumes and revenue.
In addition customers Lines Charge Controls.
Ofcom imposed the following RPI X% charge control on high bandwidth TISBO are looking for 21CN alternatives where possible.
services as a remedy to its finding of SMP for BT note that there is a single overall TI basket comprising There were price changes in this market in October 2009 and March 2010 to meet the charge control connection and rental for low bandwidth, high bandwidth and very high bandwidth TISBO services as obligations.
well as rental for Trunk services : In the Mobile Market, in which only Netstream is offered at this bandwidth, we are seeing growth of bandwidth from mobile customers to enable them to use new mass market mobile broadband services, music downloads, other bandwidth-hungry applications and mobile TV.
35 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Market: Traditional Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination above 45Mbit s Basket Value of X Sub Caps up to and including 155Mbit s Very high bandwidth connection 3.25 RPI 0% sub-cap on sub-basket of Definition and rental outside CELA.
LLU backhaul links are regarded as a symmetric broadband origination service and should therefore be included within the TISBO or AISBO markets, depending on the technology in use - POC end and third party end RPI-0 No charge can increase more than 5% bandwidth considerations being taken into account in the case of the SDH technology.
Ofcom has concluded that BT has SMP in the low, high and very high bandwidth TISBO markets outside Central and East London Area as well as in the Trunk market at all bandwidths.
Consequently, it has imposed regulation on all relevant circuits and technical areas that fall within these markets, including These controls run from 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2012.
separate Point of Handover charges, Ofcom required a corresponding reduction to external local end Ofcom found BT to continue to have SMP in the very high bandwidth TISBO market but only outside prices.
the Central and East London Area CELA as well as in the market for trunk segments at all bandwidths.
Despite some PPC migration from the lower bandwidth market and the removal of SMP in CELA at this Following a separate Consultation, Ofcom published on 2 September 2009 its Statement on the Leased bandwidth, significant competition and uncompetitive pricing has affected this market resulting in Lines Charge Controls.
Ofcom imposed the following RPI X% charge control on very high bandwidth falling volumes and revenue.
In addition customers are looking for 21C alternatives where possible.
TISBO services as a remedy to its finding of SMP for BT note that there is a single overall TI basket There were price changes in this market in March 2010 to meet the charge control obligations.
comprising connection and rental for low bandwidth, high bandwidth and very high bandwidth TISBO services as well as rental for Trunk services : In the Mobile Market, in which only Netstream 16 Longline is available to customers at this bandwidth, we are seeing growth of bandwidth from mobile customers to enable them to use new mass market mobile broadband services, music downloads, other bandwidth-hungry applications and mobile TV.
36 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets In the Backhaul market, price reductions in response to the LLCC also impacted BES 100 rentals from Market: Alternative Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination up to and January 2010.
BES 100 rental prices reduced from January 2009.
Overall volumes for backhaul including 1Gbit products remained relatively flat through the year with a small reduction in BES offset by an increase in EBD.
"Definition Alternative Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination AISBO services include the following Ethernet Market: Wholesale Local Access services: Wholesale Extension Services WES Definition Backhaul Extension Services BES Ofcom determined in December 2004 that BT has significant market power in the market for Backhaul Network Services BNS ""wholesale local access in the UK excluding the Hull Area""."
Local Access can be defined as those Openreach Network Backhaul Services ONBS network elements that comprise metallic loop access networks or 'cable' access networks, between end user premises and the facility at which those access networks connect to other communications Ethernet Backhaul Direct EBD infrastructure.
In practice, this is generally a Main Distribution Frame for a metallic loop access Ethernet Access Direct EAD network or a cable head-end for a 'cable' access network.
1 Ofcom concluded in the Leased Lines Market Review LLMR that BT has SMP in the wholesale AISBO market UK excluding Hull and, as such, it is appropriate that regulation be imposed on all bandwidths Key Regulatory Changes that fall within this market.
These products are covered by the Undertakings obligations and as such are Ofcom concluded its Financial Framework Review and published the Statement A new pricing managed out of Openreach.
framework for Openreach on 22 May 2009.
Ofcom determined that price controls will apply from 22 May 2009 through to 31 March 2011 affecting new connection, rental, cease and transfer charges as Key Regulatory Changes well as MPF and SMPF ancillary services and Co-Mingling services.
Ofcom also reset the starting WES and BES are specifically covered by the Undertakings, and as such are managed out of Openreach.
charges for MPF and SMPF rental, MPF transfer, MPF new provide and SMPF connection.
All price BNS, ONBS, EAD and EBD are products which have been developed since the Undertakings were agreed changes for 2009 10 were implemented in line with the price control.
but are also covered by these obligations and must also be managed out of Openreach.
All these In 2009 10 the MPF and SMPF connections services include cessation volumes which were excluded in products, with the exception of AISBO circuits above 1Gbit s, fall within a currently regulated market 2008 09.
Including cease volumes in the 2008 9 results increases service volumes to 885,535 for MPF and continue to be subject to a cost orientation pricing regime as specified by the relevant Significant average price 29.74 and 2,787,578 for SMPF average price 28.45.
Market Power SMP conditions in the Business Connectivity Market Review BCMR published 8 December 2008.
On 22 July 2009, Carphone Warehouse lodged an appeal with the Competition Appeal tribunal contesting Ofcoms Local Loop Unbundling LLU Charge Control Statement of 22 May 2009.
If There have been some key regulatory changes affecting these products in the 2009 10 period.
Ofcom successful, this could affect both future year LLU prices and LLU prices in 2010 11. published the Leased line Charge Control Statement on 3 July 2009 in which they introduced RPI-7% charge controls for low bandwidth AISBO services.
These controls will take effect from 1 October 2009 Key Market Changes through to 30 September 2012.
There has been continued growth in LLU lines in the last 12 months.
The MPF rental base continues to Key Market Changes grow as CPs migrate their subscribers from WLR & SMPF.
Demand for access services has shown continued volume growth for both WES and EAD products.
This There is a year on year increase in the average External SMPF rental base but these volumes were was driven by increased demand from mobile operators and other migration from TDM products to high reducing on a month by month basis throughout 2009 10.
The rental base as at 31 March 2010 was speed Ethernet connectivity.
Rental and connection prices for EAD and WES services 10Mbit s and lower than it was as at 31 March 2009 as CPs such as Sky and TalkTalk continue to migrate customers 100Mbit s were reduced in response to the Leased Line Charge Control Statement LLCC issued by from SMPF to MPF.
SMPF New connections excluding ceases also declined due to the same reason.
These reductions took effect in mid January 2010.
In addition, WES 1Gbit s Opt 1 rental prices CPs are keen to maximise their return on investment in PoP infrastructure in exchanges hence continue were reduced in July 2009.
Openreach grew its share of a growing market.
to acquire new customers and migrate existing customers to MPF.
The number of new LLU Room Builds increased from prior year as CPs extended their footprint across UK exchanges.
Ofcom, Review of the retail leased lines, symmetric broadband origination and wholesale trunk segments markets, June 2004.
37 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.3 - Wholesale analogue exchange line services Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and d non-discrimination obligations Wholesale analogue exchange line services Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
Internal External Turnover Operating Holding operating on reval.
Sales Sales Roundings note 1 costs Depreciation gain loss Supp.
Roundings costs Return MCE MCE adjs.
h See Section 4 Basis of Preparation for the CCA Revaluation Adjustment.
38 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.4 - Wholesale ISDN2 exchange line services Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and d non-discrimination obligations Wholesale ISDN2 exchange line services Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2010 92 59 - 151 53 30 65 4 16 - 38 113 268 41.7 % 79 29.6 % 2009 re-presented 110 53 1 162 53 31 3 3 4 - 94 68 277 24.6 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Cost orientation Unaudited Internal External Average FAC see Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price App 1.2 LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC For the year ended 31 March 2010 m m m m Service Wholesale ISDN2 internal service rentals 86 - - 86 783,623 channels 110.00 71.01 51.06 110.18 1.55 Wholesale ISDN2 external service rentals - 51 - 51 461,968 channels 110.00 70.99 51.05 110.14 1.55 1,245,591 Wholesale ISDN2 internal service connections 7 - - 7 56,587 channels 116.49 49.85 44.52 427.82 2.34 Wholesale ISDN2 external service connections - 7 - 7 56,452 channels 116.49 67.93 60.12 306.22 1.71 113,039 Wholesale ISDN2 internal service takovers 0 - - 0 11,301 channels 5.65 18.43 16.26 42.88 0.31 Wholesale ISDN2 external service transfers - 1 - 1 112,056 channels 5.65 18.42 16.26 42.87 0.31 123,357 Roundings 1 - - 1 92 59 - 151 Re-presented for the year ended 31 March 2009 Service Wholesale business ISDN2 internal service rentals 99 - - 99 898,103 channels 110.00 87.68 60.39 117.08 1.25 Wholesale business ISDN2 external service rentals - 44 - 44 400,915 channels 60.82 118.24 110.00 88.12 1.25 1,299,018 Wholesale business ISDN2 internal service connections 11 - - 11 95,271 channels 116.49 39.41 37.53 51.39 2.96 Wholesale business ISDN2 external service connections - 8 - 8 64,558 channels 116.49 57.30 55.10 170.60 2.03 159,829 Wholesale business ISDN2 internal service takovers 0 - - 0 30,906 channels 5.65 26.56 25.72 132.95 0.21 Wholesale business ISDN2 external service transfers - 1 - 1 161,424 channels 5.16 10.61 5.65 4.91 1.15 192,330 Roundings -- 1 1 110 53 1 162 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
39 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.5 - Wholesale business ISDN30 exchange line services Annex 12 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with non discrimination obligations Wholesale business ISDN30 exchange line services Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2010 217 103 - 320 80 52 40 0 18 - 110 210 302 69.7 % 187 62.1 % 2009 262 88 2 78 52 3 0 3 - 301 348 124 224 74.3 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges Non-discrimination Internal External Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price m m m For the year ended 31 March 2010 m Service Wholesale business ISDN30 internal service connections 5 - - 5 112,003 conns 40.71 Wholesale business ISDN30 external service connections - 4 - 4 88,882 channels 40.71 200,885 Wholesale business ISDN30 internal service rentals 212 - - 212 1,504,990 channels 141.00 Wholesale business ISDN30 external service rentals - 98 - 98 697,521 channels 141.00 2,202,511 Wholesale business ISDN30 internal service takeovers 0 - - 0 100,764 channels 4.36 Wholesale business ISDN30 external service transfer - 1 - 1 219,489 channels 4.36 320,253 Roundings - --- 217 103 - 320 For the year ended 31 March 2009 Service Wholesale business ISDN30 internal service connections 8 - - 8 185,029 conns 40.71 Wholesale business ISDN30 external service connections - 5 - 5 111,848 channels 40.71 296,877 Wholesale business ISDN30 internal service rentals 253 - - 253 1,793,063 channels 141.00 Wholesale business ISDN30 external service rentals - 82 - 82 584,239 channels 141.00 2,377,302 Wholesale business ISDN30 internal service takeovers 1 - - 1 134,235 channels 4.36 Wholesale business ISDN30 external service transfer - 1 - 1 168,027 channels 4.36 302,262 Roundings -- 2 2 262 88 2 348 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
40 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.6 - TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and d non-discrimination obligations Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 8Mbit s Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2010 338 316 - 654 350 198 218 8 89 - 411 243 1,227 19.8 % 108 8.8 % 2009 340 294 1 633 361 214 13 13 10 1 540 93 1,123 8.1 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Cost orientation Average Proportion Unaudited Internal External price per included in Average FAC see Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price list calculation price App 1.2 LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC For the year ended 31 March 2010 m m m m Service Internal Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - connection 1 - - 1 1,181 circuits 499.94 1,530.24 1,407.32 2,615.78 0.33 External Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - connection - 1 - 1 1,008 circuits 499.94 1,530.24 1,407.32 2,615.78 0.33 2,189 Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - link Main link fixed charge per year 99.90 1.00 99.90 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 63.95 0.20 12.54 Total Internal 22 - - 22 198,256 links 112.44 158.22 140.73 260.16 0.71 Main link fixed charge per year 99.90 1.00 99.90 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 63.95 0.20 12.54 Total External - 8 - 8 70,941 links 112.44 158.22 140.73 260.16 0.71 Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - distribution Terminating segment charge per year 1.76 1.00 1.76 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 0.02 1.00 0.02 Total Internal 6 - - 6 3,183,600 km 1.78 4.30 2.90 13.29 0.41 Terminating segment charge per year 1.76 1.00 1.76 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 0.02 1.00 0.02 Total External - 2 - 2 1,275,891 km 1.78 4.30 2.90 13.29 0.41 Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - trunk Trunk segment charge per year 5.25 1.00 5.25 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 0.02 1.00 0.02 Total Internal 12 - - 12 2,301,387 km 5.27 4.30 2.90 13.28 1.22 Trunk segment charge per year 5.25 1.00 5.25 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 0.02 1.00 0.02 Total External - 5 - 5 922,327 km 5.27 4.30 2.90 13.28 1.22 Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - local end Local end fixed charge per year 409.41 0.90 370.38 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 63.95 0.73 46.51 Total Internal 39 - - 39 92,621 le 348.39 708.72 416.89 396.36 1.05 Local end fixed charge per year 409.41 1.00 409.41 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 63.95 0.80 51.41 Total External -8 - 8 16,821 le 460.82 379.57 307.32 617.30 1.21 41 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.6 - TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Cost orientation Average Proportion Unaudited Internal External price per included in Average FAC see Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price list calculation price App 1.2 LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC m m m m For the year ended 31 March 2010 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - connection Internal Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - connection 13 - - 13 7,402 circuits 1,867.67 3,090.67 1,695.04 2,012.98 0.84 External Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - connection - 14 - 14 8,240 circuits 1,695.04 2,012.98 1,867.67 3,090.67 0.84 15,642 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - link Main link fixed charge per year 411.61 1.00 411.61 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 132.30 0.40 53.41 Total internal 40 - - 40 85,682 links 465.02 255.63 221.22 453.38 1.82 Main link fixed charge per year 411.61 1.00 411.61 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 132.30 0.40 53.41 Total External - 26 - 26 55,799 links 465.02 255.63 221.22 453.38 1.82 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - distribution Terminating segment charge per year 45.50 1.00 45.50 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 1.48 1.00 1.48 Total Internal 42 - - 42 891,043 km 46.98 49.89 38.38 114.74 0.94 Terminating segment charge per year 45.50 1.00 45.50 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 1.48 1.00 1.48 Total External - 27 - 27 565,044 km 38.38 114.74 46.98 49.89 0.94 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - local end CLZ Local end fixed charge per year 355.40 0.87 308.53 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 131.64 0.40 53.09 Total Internal CLZ 5 - - 5 14,216 le 361.62 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - local end non CLZ Local end fixed charge per year 692.06 0.88 609.41 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 132.97 0.55 73.28 Total Internal non CLZ 75 - - 75 109,543 le 682.69 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - local end CLZ Local end fixed charge per year 355.40 1.00 355.40 131.64 0.46 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 61.16 Total External CLZ - 2 - 2 3,737 le 416.56 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - local end non CLZ Local end fixed charge per year 692.06 1.00 692.06 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 132.97 0.63 83.22 Total External non CLZ - 40 - 40 51,689 le 775.28 444.90 1,023.00 Weighted average price for CLZ non CLZ Nationally averaged cost 678.38 758.88 0.89 42 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.6 - TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Cost orientation Average Proportion Unaudited Internal External price per included in Average FAC see Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price list calculation price App 1.2 LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC m m m m For the year ended 31 March 2010 Internal SDSL 12 - - 12 u2 s2 142.40 328.14 n a 187.05 External Radio Backhaul Service - sub 2 Mbit s connection - 0 - 0 210 circuits 499.94 1,569.76 1,441.36 2,685.24 0.32 External Radio Backhaul Service - sub 2 Mbit s rentals - 17 - 17 u3 s3 497.82 410.43 815.72 n a Internal Radio Backhaul Service - 2 Mbit s connection 10 - - 10 7,348 circuits 1,355.56 2,018.58 1,872.20 3,102.82 0.67 External Radio Backhaul Service - 2 Mbit s connection - 20 - 20 15,022 circuits 1,355.56 2,018.58 1,872.20 3,102.82 0.67 Internal Radio Backhaul Service - 2 Mbit s rentals 41 - - 41 u3 s3 1,629.50 1,080.62 2,446.69 n a External Radio Backhaul Service - 2 Mbit s rentals - 95 - 95 u3 s3 1,629.50 1,080.62 2,446.69 n a External Netstream 16 LL 2Mbit s connection - 0 - 0 138 circuits 1,328.99 2,003.71 1,859.37 3,077.15 0.66 External Netstream 16 LL 2Mbit s rentals non CLZ - 25 - 25 u4 s4 n a n a n a n a External Netstream 16 LL 2Mbit s rentals CLZ - 0 - 0 u4 s4 n a n a n a n a Support Service Internal Protected Path Variants and Resilience 5 - - 5 u5 s5 Estimated total cost of 0.2m External Protected Path Variants and Resilience - 4 - 4 u5 s5 Estimated total cost of 0.1m Equipment depreciation - - - - Estimated equipment depreciation of 41m Internal Third Party Customer Infrastructure 10 - - 10 un un Estimated matched cost of 10.5m External Third Party Customer Infrastructure - 19 - 19 un un Estimated matched cost of 18.9m Internal Excess construction charges 5 - - 5 un un Estimated matched cost of 3.1m External Excess construction charges - 3 - 3 un un Estimated matched cost of 2.0m Roundings -- - 0 338 316 - 654 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
sx This service comprises a number of individual prices as indicated by the value of x. ux This service comprises a number of individual volumetrics as indicated by the value of x. un This service comprises a large number of volumetrics and prices.
These are capital costs and therefore not included in the market total for operating costs.
43 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.6 - TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Cost orientation Average Proportion Unaudited Internal External price per included in Average FAC see Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price list calculation price App 1.2 LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC m m m m For the year ended 31 March 2009 Service Internal Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - connection 1 - - 1 1,302 circuits 499.94 1,391.77 1,264.66 2,316.77 0.36 External Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - connection - 1 - 1 1,745 circuits 499.94 1,391.77 1,264.66 2,316.77 0.36 3,047 Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - link Main link fixed charge per year 60.57 1.00 60.57 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 40.31 0.18 7.18 Total Internal 14 - - 14 207,463 links 67.75 176.58 165.21 252.87 0.38 Main link fixed charge per year 60.57 1.00 60.57 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 40.31 0.18 7.18 Total External - 6 - 6 82,916 links 67.75 176.58 165.21 252.87 0.38 Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - transmission Terminating segment charge per year 1.69 1.00 1.69 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 0.01 1.00 0.01 Total Internal 10 - - 10 5,686,147 km 3.17 11.65 1.70 4.29 0.40 Terminating segment charge per year 1.69 1.00 1.69 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 0.01 1.00 0.01 Total External - 4 - 4 2,635,215 km 1.70 4.29 3.17 11.65 0.40 Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - local end Local end fixed charge per year 289.67 0.77 222.76 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 40.31 0.63 25.47 Total Internal 28 - - 28 112,310 le 248.23 401.34 321.93 535.65 0.62 Local end fixed charge per year 289.67 1.00 289.67 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 40.31 0.82 33.13 Total External - 5 - 5 15,011 le 322.80 569.82 471.99 783.38 0.57 44 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.6 - TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Cost orientation Average Proportion Unaudited Internal External price per included in Average FAC see Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price list calculation price App 1.2 LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC m m m m For the year ended 31 March 2009 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - connection Internal Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - connection 12 - - 12 7,094 circuits 1,646.12 2,829.98 1,695.04 1,828.23 0.93 External Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - connection - 17 - 17 10,079 circuits 1,695.04 1,828.23 1,646.12 2,829.98 0.93 17,173 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - link Main link fixed charge per year 410.00 1.00 410.00 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 131.79 0.40 52.99 Total internal 42 - - 42 90,486 links 462.99 358.70 319.01 595.41 1.29 Main link fixed charge per year 410.00 1.00 410.00 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 131.79 0.40 52.99 Total External - 25 - 25 53,751 links 462.99 358.70 319.01 595.41 1.29 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - distribution Terminating segment charge per year 45.34 1.00 45.34 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 1.48 1.00 1.48 Total Internal 41 - - 41 878,479 km 46.82 49.16 41.37 96.56 0.95 Terminating segment charge per year 45.34 1.00 45.34 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 1.48 1.00 1.48 Total External - 27 - 27 576,264 km 41.37 96.56 46.82 49.16 0.95 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - local end CLZ Local end fixed charge per year 392.38 0.77 301.74 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 131.08 0.38 49.43 Total Internal CLZ 6 - - 6 17,226 le 351.17 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - local end non CLZ Local end fixed charge per year 691.92 0.77 532.09 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 132.49 0.48 63.84 Total Internal non CLZ 89 - - 89 149,315 le 595.93 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - local end CLZ Local end fixed charge per year 392.38 1.00 392.38 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 131.08 0.49 64.28 Total External CLZ - 1 - 1 3,018 le 456.66 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - local end non CLZ Local end fixed charge per year 691.92 1.00 691.92 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 132.49 0.63 83.03 Total External non CLZ - 43 - 43 55,496 le 774.95 Weighted average price for CLZ non CLZ Nationally averaged cost 619.47 1,009.28 688.12 1,338.41 0.61 45 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.6 - TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Cost orientation Average Proportion Unaudited Internal External price per included in Average FAC see Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price list calculation price App 1.2 LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC m m m m For the year ended 31 March 2009 Internal SDSL 13 - - 13 u2 s2 226.17 480.48 n a 301.75 External Radio Backhaul Service - sub 2 Mbit s connection - 0 - 0 228 circuits 499.94 1,550.51 1,400.61 2,558.80 0.32 External Radio Backhaul Service - sub 2 Mbit s rentals - 13 - 13 u3 s3 802.17 685.03 1,133.57 n a Internal Radio Backhaul Service - 2 Mbit s connection 29 - - 29 8,049 circuits 3,582.66 1,662.26 1,493.34 2,487.57 2.16 External Radio Backhaul Service - 2 Mbit s connection - 53 - 53 14,717 circuits 3,582.66 1,662.26 1,493.34 2,487.57 2.16 Internal Radio Backhaul Service - 2 Mbit s rentals 26 - - 26 u3 s3 1,888.99 1,425.67 2,756.08 n a External Radio Backhaul Service - 2 Mbit s rentals - 65 - 65 u3 s3 1,888.99 1,425.67 2,756.08 n a Support Service Internal Third Party Customer Infrastructure 12 - - 12 u1 s1 External Third Party Customer Infrastructure - 25 - 25 u1 s1 Internal Protected Path Variants and Resilience 5 - - 5 u5 s5 s External Protected Path Variants and Resilience - 4 - 4 u5 s5 Internal Excess construction charges 12 - - 12 u1 s1 External Excess construction charges - 5 - 5 u1 s1 Roundings -- 1 1 340 294 1 633 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
sx This service comprises a number of individual prices as indicated by the value of x. ux This service comprises a number of individual volumetrics as indicated by the value of x. s Costs associated with support services are included within the above reported services and hence not disclosed separately.
46 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.7 - TISBO above 8Mbit s up to and including 45Mbit s Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and d non-discrimination obligations Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination above 8Mbit s up to and including 45Mbit s Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2010 32 15 - 47 25 26 20 2 9 - 38 9 141 6.6 % 3 2.4 % 2009 39 18 1 56 36 32 2 4 1 4 65 9 192 3.8 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Cost orientation Average Proportion Unaudited Internal External price per included in Average FAC see Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price list calculation price App 1.2 LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC m m m m For the year ended 31 March 2010 Service Internal Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - connection 0 - - 0 20 circuits 1,593.44 1,978.15 1,837.61 3,031.82 0.81 External Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - connection - 0 - 0 160 circuits 1,593.44 1,978.15 1,837.61 3,031.82 0.81 180 Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - link Main link fixed charge per year 2,872.36 1.00 2,872.36 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 195.90 0.51 100.19 Total Internal 7 - - 7 2,216 links 2,972.55 2,773.42 2,210.10 4,531.72 1.07 Main link fixed charge per year 2,872.36 1.00 2,872.36 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 195.90 0.51 100.19 Total External - 4 - 4 1,181 links 2,972.55 2,773.42 2,210.10 4,531.72 1.07 Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - distribution Terminating segment charge per year 450.99 1.00 450.99 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 2.22 1.00 2.22 Total Internal 17 - - 17 37,129 km 453.21 389.14 303.58 833.88 1.16 Terminating segment charge per year 450.99 1.00 450.99 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 2.22 1.00 2.22 Total External - 6 - 6 12,929 km 453.21 389.14 303.58 833.88 1.16 Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - local end Local end fixed charge per year 2,744.12 0.87 2,378.47 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 195.90 0.42 82.96 Total Internal 8 - - 8 3,312 le 2,461.43 6,542.44 3,110.69 8,391.77 0.38 Local end fixed charge per year 2,744.12 1.00 2,744.12 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 195.90 0.49 95.71 Total External - 3 - 3 1,187 le 2,839.83 5,579.60 3,218.80 7,864.94 0.51 Netstream 16 LL 45Mbit s rentals - 0 - 0 u4 s4 n a n a n a n a Support Service Internal Protected Path Variants and Resilience 1 - - 1 u4 s4 Estimated total cost of 0.6m External Protected Path Variants and Resilience - 2 - 2 u4 s4 Estimated total cost of 1.0m Equipment depreciation ---- Estimated equipment depreciation of 6.8m Roundings 1 - - 1 32 15 - 47 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
47 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.7 - TISBO above 8Mbit s up to and including 45Mbit s continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Cost orientation Average Proportion Unaudited Internal External price per included in Average FAC see Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price list calculation price App 1.2 LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC m m m m For the year ended 31 March 2009 Service Internal Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - connection 0 - - 0 42 circuits 1,593.44 1,494.80 1,346.79 2,202.45 1.07 External Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - connection - 0 - 0 247 circuits 1,346.79 2,202.45 1,593.44 1,494.80 1.07 289 Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - link Main link fixed charge per year 2,862.02 1.00 2,862.02 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 195.20 0.47 92.68 Total Internal 9 - - 9 3,099 links 2,954.70 4,226.50 3,422.71 6,814.32 0.70 Main link fixed charge per year 2,862.02 1.00 2,862.02 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 195.20 0.47 92.68 Total External - 4 - 4 1,368 links 2,954.70 4,226.50 3,422.71 6,814.32 0.70 Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - distribution Terminating segment charge per year 449.37 1.00 449.37 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 2.21 1.00 2.21 Total Internal 18 - - 18 40,755 km 451.58 417.94 361.16 743.32 1.08 Terminating segment charge per year 449.37 1.00 449.37 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 2.21 1.00 2.21 Total External - 7 - 7 14,964 km 451.58 417.94 361.16 743.32 1.08 Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - local end Local end fixed charge per year 3,165.79 0.77 2,434.49 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 195.20 0.40 78.84 Total Internal 10 - - 10 4,093 le 2,513.33 7,039.04 4,947.26 10,552.47 0.36 Local end fixed charge per year 3,165.79 1.00 3,165.79 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 195.20 0.53 102.52 Total External - 5 - 5 1,396 le 3,268.31 10,624.90 7,740.08 15,949.73 0.31 Support Service Internal Protected Path Variants and Resilience 2 - - 2 u4 s4 s External Protected Path Variants and Resilience - 2 - 2 u4 s4 Roundings -- 1 1 39 18 1 56 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
48 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.8 - TISBO above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and d non-discrimination obligations Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2010 79 19 - 98 19 26 16 3 8 - 34 64 135 47.8 % 54 39.7 % 2009 99 5 - 104 36 26 1 3 0 - 58 46 211 22.3 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Cost orientation Average Proportion Unaudited Internal External price per included in Average FAC see Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price list calculation price App 1.2 LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC m m m m For the year ended 31 March 2010 Service Internal Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - connection 0 - - 0 8 circuits 1,804.72 1,980.00 1,839.39 3,033.94 0.91 External Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - connection - 0 - 0 23 circuits 1,804.72 1,980.00 1,839.39 3,033.94 0.91 31 Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - link Main link fixed charge per year 10,408.45 1.00 10,408.45 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 379.26 0.42 159.13 Total Internal 28 - - 28 2,627 links 10,567.58 9,036.54 7,166.09 15,923.38 1.17 Main link fixed charge per year 10,408.45 1.00 10,408.45 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 379.26 0.42 159.13 Total External -1 -1 93 links 10,567.58 9,036.54 7,166.09 15,923.38 1.17 Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - distribution Terminating segment charge per year 1,177.73 1.00 1,177.73 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 5.32 1.00 5.32 Total Internal 31 - - 31 26,556 km 1,183.05 490.16 368.02 1,176.19 2.41 Terminating segment charge per year 1,177.73 1.00 1,177.73 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 5.32 1.00 5.32 Total External - 1 - 1 1,000 km 1,183.05 490.16 368.02 1,176.19 2.41 Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - local end Local end fixed charge per year 14,397.82 0.88 12,619.81 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 379.26 0.51 192.94 Total Internal 10 - - 10 809 le 12,812.75 12,066.53 7,951.21 15,051.86 1.06 Local end fixed charge per year 14,397.82 1.00 14,397.82 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 379.26 0.58 220.12 Total External -2 -2 107 le 14,617.94 14,501.69 10,045.65 19,263.06 1.01 Netstream 16 LL 155Mbit s connection - 0 - 0 2 circuits 10,000.00 2,083.00 1,935.81 3,190.61 4.80 Netstream 16 LL 155Mbit s rentals - 14 - 14 u4 s4 n a n a n a n a Support Service Internal Protected Path Variants and Resilience 10 - - 10 u4 s4 Estimated total cost of 2.2m External Protected Path Variants and Resilience - 1 - 1 u4 s4 Estimated total cost of 0.2m Equipment depreciation ---- Estimated equipment depreciation of 0.2m Roundings ---- 79 19 - 98 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
sx This service comprises a number of individual prices as indicated by the value of x. ux This service comprises a number of individual volumetrics as indicated by the value of x. h See Section 4 Basis of Preparation for the CCA Revaluation Adjustment.
49 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.8 - TISBO above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Cost orientation Average Proportion Unaudited Internal External price per included in Average FAC see Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price list calculation price App 1.2 LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC For the year ended 31 March 2009 m m m m Service Internal Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - connection 0 - - 0 3 circuits 1,804.72 1,494.80 1,346.79 2,202.45 1.21 External Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - connection - 0 - 0 32 circuits 1,804.72 1,494.80 1,346.79 2,202.45 1.21 35 Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - link Main link fixed charge per year 10,391.84 1.00 10,391.84 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 378.65 0.40 152.60 Total Internal 34 - - 34 3,242 links 10,544.44 13,820.43 11,604.60 24,586.17 0.76 Main link fixed charge per year 10,391.84 1.00 10,391.84 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 378.65 0.40 152.60 Total External -1 - 1 98 links 10,544.44 13,820.43 11,604.60 24,586.17 0.76 Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - distribution Terminating segment charge per year 1,214.91 1.00 1,214.91 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 5.40 1.00 5.40 Total Internal 39 - - 39 31,750 km 1,220.31 556.05 500.10 1,101.25 2.19 Terminating segment charge per year 1,214.91 1.00 1,214.91 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 5.40 1.00 5.40 Total External - 1 - 1 1,155 km 1,220.31 556.05 500.10 1,101.25 2.19 Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - local end Local end fixed charge per year 15,394.02 0.77 11,838.00 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 378.65 0.46 173.83 Total Internal 16 - - 16 1,365 le 8,743.32 15,083.46 12,011.83 10,917.46 1.10 Local end fixed charge per year 15,394.02 1.00 15,394.02 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 378.65 0.60 226.05 Total External -2 - 2 103 le 15,620.07 18,507.46 15,124.23 26,727.86 0.84 Support Service Internal Protected Path Variants and Resilience 10 - - 10 u4 s4 s External Protected Path Variants and Resilience - 1 - 1 u4 s4 Roundings - --- 99 5 - 104 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
50 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.9 - AISBO up to and including 1Gbit s Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and d non-discrimination obligations Alternative interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 1Gbit s Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2010 281 208 - 489 176 145 217 6 95 - 205 284 1,120 25.4 % 152 13.5 % 2009 279 212 3 494 103 94 13 2 17 - 169 325 873 37.3 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Cost orientation Unaudited Internal External Average FAC see Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Volume Unit b Turnover price App 1.2 LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC For the year ended 31 March 2010 m m m m Service Internal Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s rental 75 - - 75 36,532 le 2,040.50 1,675.41 620.22 2,239.13 1.22 External Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s rental - 39 - 39 19,418 le 2,005.61 1,675.41 620.22 2,239.13 1.20 55,950 Internal Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s rental 58 - - 58 24,992 le 2,313.46 1,719.82 648.31 2,318.70 1.35 External Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s rental - 28 - 28 12,213 le 648.31 2,318.70 2,273.25 1,719.82 1.32 37,205 Internal Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s rental 24 - - 24 4,117 le 905.70 3,027.96 5,819.71 2,097.62 2.77 External Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s rental - 8 - 8 1,518 le 5,554.59 2,097.62 905.70 3,027.96 2.65 5,635 Internal Wholesale extension services other bandwidth rental 13 - - 13 16,808 le 746.63 1,731.71 652.42 2,296.66 0.43 External Wholesale extension services other bandwidth rental - 2 - 2 351 le 6,815.20 1,731.71 652.42 2,296.66 3.94 17,159 Internal Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s connection 8 - - 8 6,914 le 2,919.80 6,462.39 1,097.39 3,322.59 0.33 External Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s connection - 5 - 5 4,587 le 995.98 3,322.59 2,919.80 6,462.39 0.30 11,501 Internal Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s connection 13 - - 13 10,196 le 1,239.42 3,224.47 2,829.91 6,165.69 0.38 External Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s connection - 6 - 6 5,115 le 1,099.81 3,224.47 2,829.91 6,165.69 0.34 15,311 Internal Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s connection 9 - - 9 1,598 le 8,090.94 16,410.49 5,557.25 9,267.84 0.60 External Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s connection - 2 - 2 754 le 2,201.10 9,267.84 8,090.94 16,410.49 0.24 2,352 Internal Wholesale extension services other bandwidth connection t 1 - - 1 t t u u u n a External Wholesale extension services other bandwidth connection t - 1 - 1 t t u u u n a External Backhaul extension services 100Mbit s rental - 8 - 8 5,272 le 1,582.63 1,633.96 678.04 1,730.62 0.97 External Backhaul extension services 1000Mbit s rental - 17 - 17 4,106 le 4,198.81 1,934.86 884.78 2,239.47 2.17 External Backhaul extension services other bandwidth rental t - 1 - 1 t t u u u n a 51 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.9 - AISBO up to and including 1Gbit s continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Cost orientation Unaudited Internal External Average FAC see Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price App 1.2 LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC For the year ended 31 March 2010 m m m m External Backhaul extension services 100Mbit s connection t - 1 - 1 t t u u u n a External Backhaul extension services 1000Mbit s connection - 2 - 2 1,192 le 12,551.86 26,860.72 2,013.52 14,439.10 0.14 External Backhaul extension services other bandwidth connection - 2 - 2 u1 s1 10,445.50 9,019.28 18,010.39 n a External Backhaul network services all bandwidth connection t - 1 - 1 t t u u u n a External Backhaul network services all bandwidth rental - 6 - 6 876 circuits 6,335.60 1,693.44 677.27 2,815.35 3.74 Internal Ethernet Access Direct connection 2 - - 2 816 circuits 2,372.36 External Ethernet Access Direct connection - 1 - 1 589 circuits 2,065.72 1,405 Internal Ethernet Access Direct rental t 1 - - 1 t t External Ethernet Access Direct rental t - 1 - 1 t t External Ethernet Backhaul Direct connection - 1 - 1 302 circuits 4,575.00 u External Ethernet Backhaul Direct rental - 6 - 6 759 circuits 7,782.00 Internal Other Ethernet connection 2 - - 2 257 circuits 8,297.79 External Other Ethernet connection - 1 - 1 566 circuits 2,545.33 823 Internal Other Ethernet rental 1 - - 1 583 circuits 2,120.20 External Other Ethernet rental t - 1 - 1 t t Internal Main link rental charges 64 - - 64 159,835 fibre km 400.95 319.04 204.71 962.58 1.26 External Main link rental charges - 61 - 61 154,497 fibre km 393.91 319.04 204.71 962.58 1.23 314,332 Support Service Equipment depreciation - - - - Estimated equipment depreciation of 3.3m Internal Excess construction charges 12 - - 12 u1 s1 Estimated matched cost of 8.0m External Excess construction charges - 11 - 11 u1 s1 Estimated matched cost of 7.0m Roundings -2 - 2 281 208 - 489 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
sx This service comprises a number of individual prices as indicated by the value of x. ux This service comprises a number of individual volumetrics as indicated by the value of x. t Turnover for this service is 1m and hence shown within roundings as agreed with Ofcom.
Where turnover is immaterial, no volumes or price es are shown.
u Costs associated with these services are immaterial and included within the above reported AISBO services and hence not disclosed separa ately.
52 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.9 - AISBO up to and including 1Gbit s continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Cost orientation Unaudited Internal External Average FAC see Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price App 1.2 LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC For the year ended 31 March 2009 m m m m Service Internal Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s rental 72 - - 72 48,703 le 1,472.86 1,368.82 588.87 1,789.80 1.08 External Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s rental - 29 - 29 14,214 le 2,039.89 1,368.82 588.87 1,789.80 1.49 62,917 Internal Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s rental 65 - - 65 24,084 le 2,714.70 1,365.22 585.38 1,781.55 1.99 External Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s rental - 21 - 21 7,820 le 2,656.36 1,365.22 585.38 1,781.55 1.95 31,904 Internal Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s rental 25 - - 25 3,211 le 7,887.93 1,382.65 600.00 1,821.56 5.70 External Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s rental - 6 - 6 846 le 7,568.75 1,382.65 600.00 1,821.56 5.47 4,057 Internal Wholesale extension services other bandwidth rental 3 - - 3 162 le 18,322.06 2,620.05 1,773.30 4,658.92 6.99 External Wholesale extension services other bandwidth rental - 2 - 2 345 le 6,201.16 2,620.05 1,773.30 4,658.92 2.37 507 Internal Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s connection 10 - - 10 7,841 le 1,267.48 1,651.86 1,555.80 2,628.55 0.77 External Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s connection - 6 - 6 5,037 le 1,555.80 2,628.55 1,232.97 1,651.86 0.75 12,878 Internal Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s connection 11 - - 11 5,332 le 2,085.25 1,593.23 1,497.30 2,454.37 1.31 External Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s connection - 8 - 8 3,745 le 2,186.14 1,593.23 1,497.30 2,454.37 1.37 9,077 Internal Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s connection 5 - - 5 951 le 4,758.46 5,778.98 5,430.87 8,899.04 0.82 External Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s connection - 2 - 2 502 le 4,578.42 5,778.98 5,430.87 8,899.04 0.79 1,453 Internal Wholesale extension services other bandwidth connection 0 - - 0 16 le 3,219.51 6,184.48 4,762.50 3,383.86 1.41 External Wholesale extension services other bandwidth connection - 0 - 0 29 le 4,500.00 3,383.86 3,219.51 6,184.48 1.33 45 53 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.9 - AISBO up to and including 1Gbit s continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Cost orientation Unaudited Internal External Average FAC see Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price App 1.2 LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC m m m m For the year ended 31 March 2009 External Backhaul extension services 100Mbit s rental - 16 - 16 6,080 le 2,687.33 1,239.00 586.87 1,620.75 2.17 External Backhaul extension services 1000Mbit s rental - 30 - 30 6,695 le 4,473.48 1,256.25 601.31 1,660.32 3.56 External Backhaul extension services other bandwidth rental - 2 - 2 4,099 le 503.23 1,249.92 597.46 1,645.76 0.40 External Backhaul extension services 100Mbit s connection - 2 - 2 649 le 997.04 1,703.56 2,369.80 1,007.87 2.35 External Backhaul extension services 1000Mbit s connection - 8 - 8 1,555 le 5,199.15 3,589.53 3,552.26 6,025.57 1.45 External Backhaul extension services other bandwidth connection - 1 - 1 965 le 1,478.28 1,500.93 1,485.29 2,521.56 0.98 External Backhaul network services all bandwidth connection - 2 - 2 141 circuits 17,124.77 47,622.13 48,855.69 60,115.26 0.36 External Backhaul network services all bandwidth rental - 5 - 5 920 circuits 5,691.35 2,440.54 739.48 4,239.74 2.33 Internal Main link rental charges 75 - - 75 144,634 fibre km 516.11 183.50 116.44 582.75 2.81 External Main link rental charges - 63 - 63 123,010 fibre km 116.44 582.75 513.25 183.50 2.80 267,644 Support Service Internal Excess construction charges 13 - - 13 u3 s3 s External Excess construction charges - 9 - 9 u3 s3 Roundings -- 3 3 279 212 3 494 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
54 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.10 - Wholesale local access Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-discrrimination obligations Wholesale local access Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
55 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8 Review of Other Wholesale Markets 56 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.1 - Financial Performance in Other Wholesale Markets Annex 8 Return ROCE Total CCA Mean excl.
57 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.2 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Annex 10 & 14 Section 8.2.
1 - Market Group Level Review Annex 10 Section 8.2.
1 Market Group Level Review Annex 10 Overall the markets for calls call origination, call termination, local to tandem conveyance and single transit continue to show a decline in revenue, due to reducing volumes.
Substitution of fixed PSTN calls continues with migration to broadband, mobile, LLU operators and other alternatives.
As volumes reduce there is a consequential reduction in the revenue for interconnect circuits, the fixed links that carry calls traffic between the networks of different operators.
The Network Charge Controls were by updated by Ofcom and the new controls took effect on 1 October 2009, the mid point of 2009 10.
The details of the changes to the RPI X formulae are given in Section 8.2.
SMP status was removed from the Local to Tandem Conveyance market, and this service will become part of Wholesale Residual in future years.
Single Transit retains SMP status but Ofcom has determined that a price control is no longer needed as a remedy.
Costs and mean capital employed for the calls markets in total have reduced due to a combination of ageing PSTN assets approaching the end of their planned lives, and the changes to cost allocation referred to in Section 4.2.
Wholesale trunk segments are bought by Communications Providers in combination with partial private circuits in the TISBO markets.
Revenue and returns have fallen significantly in the year due to significant price reductions introduced in connection with the new Leased Lines Charge Controls which took effect on 1 October 2009.
This was part of a general re-alignment of PPC and Trunk prices to move them more into line with costs.
Points of Handover charges relate to the cost of providing interconnection between operators networks for TISBO services.
Revenue has increased in 2009 10 following changes to the structure and pricing of Point of Handover services via the Business Connectivity Market Review and Leased Line Charge Control determinations.
Revenue and returns for the broadband market taken as a whole Wholesale Broadband Access have fallen, partly due to price reductions in the fide-regulated part of the market and partly due to additional network costs.
The Wholesale Broadband market shows returns declining significantly.
The main reasons are due to a combination of lower revenues due to competition conditions and higher costs as a result of continued roll-out of 21CN services.
58 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.2.
2 Market Level Financial Review of Other Wholesale SMP Markets Key Market Changes Annex 14 Annex 14 The last FRIACO customer ceased their service during 2009 and FRIACO was subsequently withdrawn from new supply in October 2009.
2 - Market Level Financial Review of Other Wholesale SMP Markets Market: Call Origination on Fixed Public Narrowband Networks Call origination has declined steadily throughout the year driven by several factors: Definition The ongoing migration of call origination minutes from fixed public narrowband networks to mobile networks.
The conveyance of a call originating on a customers exchange line from the remote concentrator to and The substitution impact of VOIP Voice Over IP calls is growing and will potentially have a over the local exchange.
greater impact in the future as Broadband Service Providers move towards double and triple Call Origination Services are defined as any and all of the following specific services provided by the play offerings in a move to consolidate market share and grow revenue.
Dominant Provider: Growth in Local Loop Unbundling LLU lines has eroded call origination volumes with major players marketing double play offerings to their customer base, where voice services are call origination including operator assistance and emergency intermediate services : and provided alongside high speed data.
call origination including emergency intermediate services.
Key Regulatory Changes Market: Local-Tandem Conveyance and Transit on Fixed Public Narrowband In 2009 10 Ofcom carried out a review of the Fixed Narrowband Services Wholesale Market and a review of the Network Charge Controls.
Ofcom concluded that BT still has SMP in the call origination Networks market going forward.
Ofcom also determined that due to decline in the market BT no longer has an obligation to supply FRIACO.
As of 1 October 2009 the price control on both DLE FRIACO and Single Definition Tandem FRIACO fell away.
Local-tandem conveyance LTC and local-tandem transit LTT are services that convey traffic The Determination on PPP Product Management, Policy and Planning was implemented by Ofcom on between a local and a tandem exchange.
A tandem exchange is a telephone exchange whose primary 1 July 2004.
The interconnect costs are pooled with the costs of providing end to end calls for BTs retail function to switch traffic between telephone exchanges in a Public Electronic Communications Network activities and the costs are recovered over all calls on an equivalent basis.
Each physical call crossing BTs PECN.
network is charged PPP only once.
As PPP is incurred on all calls in markets where BT has SMP, it is relevant for the Call Origination market.
Local-tandem conveyance LTC is the service that an originating or terminating operator provides to convey calls between a local exchange and a tandem exchange.
The charge controls for these services are as follows: Local-tandem transit LTT is a service a transit operator provides to convey calls between a local exchange and a tandem exchange when a call originates and terminates on networks other than its own.
Service Previous NCC New NCC 1 Oct 2005 30 Sept 2009 1 Oct 2009 30 Sept 2013 Key Regulatory Changes Call Origination RPI - 3.75% RPI 2.75% In 2009 10 Ofcom carried out a review of the Fixed Narrowband Services Wholesale Market and a review of the Network Charge Controls.
Ofcom concluded that LTC and LTT are in a separate market to that containing Single Transit.
The final Statement confirmed Ofcoms view that the market for LTC and DLE FRIACO RPI - 8% Not applicable LTT is effectively competitive and therefore SMP no longer applies.
As a result of this from 1 October 2009 the price control is no longer necessary.
This means that the market is not bound by the RPI-X formula beyond 30 September 2009.
Until 30 September 2009 the price control applicable for this Single Tandem FRIACO RPI - 8.5% Not applicable market is RPI-0% The Determination on PPP Product Management, Policy and Planning was implemented by Ofcom on Product Management, RPI 0.75% RPI 1.50% 1 July 2004.
The interconnect costs are pooled with the costs of providing end to end calls for BTs retail Policy and Planning PPP activities and the costs are recovered over all calls on an equivalent basis.
Each call crossing BTs network is charged PPP only once.
Given that PPP Product Management, Policy and Planning is only 59 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets incurred on all calls in markets where BT has SMP, it is not relevant for the LTC and LTT market beyond activities and the costs are recovered over all calls on an equivalent basis.
Each call crossing BTs 30 September 2009.
Until that point the price control applicable for PPP is RPI 0.75%.
As PPP is incurred on all calls in markets where BT has SMP, it is relevant for the Single Transit market.
To 30 September 2009 the price control applicable for PPP is Key Market Changes RPI 0.75%.
From 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2013 the price control has been changed to RPI 1.50%.
The reduction in turnover is due to the decline in Local-tandem conveyance volumes explained below.
Key Market Changes Overall the fixed line calls market is shrinking.
The contraction of the fixed market is driven by substitution of broadband and mobile.
Volumes of transit calls declined during the financial year ended 31 March 2010 primarily due to direct connects between other operators.
Local-tandem conveyance has declined steadily throughout the year driven by the following main factors: The ongoing migration of local-tandem conveyance minutes from fixed public narrowband Market: Technical Areas Interconnect Circuits networks to mobile networks.
The substitution impact of VOIP Voice Over IP calls is growing and will potentially have a Definition greater impact in the future as Broadband Service Providers move towards double and triple play offerings in a move to consolidate market share and grow revenue.
Ofcom has the ability to apply remedies to technical areas as part of the overall obligation that Similarly growth in Local Loop Unbundling LLU lines is beginning to erode local-tandem addresses SMP in a particular market.
Interconnect Circuits have been identified as an appropriate conveyance volumes with major players marketing double play offerings to their customer base, technical area for the purpose of imposing appropriate regulatory remedies.
Interconnect Circuits link where voice services are provided alongside high speed data.
the exchanges of two interconnecting Communication Providers CPs in order to enable traffic to pass between their networks.
BT provides the following types of Interconnect Circuits: Market: Single Transit on Fixed Public Narrowband Networks Customer-Sited Interconnect CSI : BT provides a point of interconnection at the site of the interconnecting CP by extending its network using a 2Mbit s circuit: Definition In-Span Interconnect ISI : BT and the other CP build out their networks to a handover point Single transit is the service an operator provides when a call originates and terminates on networks located between their switches.
The handover point is normally close to the BT exchange and other than its own and the originating and terminating operators are directly connected at the same therefore most of the build is the responsibility of the interconnecting CP: transit operators tandem exchange.
The call is therefore transited through a single tandem exchange.
Interconnection Extension Circuit IEC : IECs allow an interconnecting CP with an existing ISI to extend this point of interconnection to a new building.
In order to do this, BT provides a 2Mbit s While Inter-tandem conveyance ITC and Inter-tandem transit ITT are essentially transmission circuit between the two buildings.
An IEC is subject to the same per km charge as a CSI but has a services, single transit is a connection service that connects two operators who are not directly reduced fixed charge: and connected.
Virtual Interconnect Circuit VIC : VIC is an operationally efficient alternative to physical Due to the terms of competition being different in single transit, the 2009 10 market review confirmed interconnect at Digital Local Exchanges DLE allowing CPs to continue to benefit from Local that single transit is in a separate market to ITT ITC.
Exchange Segment LES rates whilst physically connecting to the Next Generation Switch NGS.
VIC is an important part of BTs commitment to maintaining commercial stability as the Key Regulatory Changes company moves its interconnect services onto the new 21CN platform.
In 2009 10 Ofcom carried out a review of the Fixed Narrowband Services Wholesale Market and a Ofcom determined that Interconnect Circuits should properly be considered as a Technical Area as set review of the Network Charge Controls.
Ofcom concluded that Single Transit is in a separate market to out by the Commission.
that containing LTC and LTT.
The final Statement confirmed Ofcoms view that the market for Single Transit is not effectively competitive and that the finding of SMP still applies.
However, given the nature Key Regulatory Changes of the market no price control remedy is needed.
This means that the market is not bound by the RPIX formula beyond 30 September 2009.
Until 30 September 2009 the price control applicable to this In 2009 10 Ofcom carried out a review of the Fixed Narrowband Services Wholesale Market and a market is RPI-11.5%.
review of the Network Charge Controls.
Ofcom concluded that BT still has SMP in the Technical Area for Interconnect Circuits going forward.
The price control applicable to this Technical Area is RPI-5.25% up The Determination on PPP Product Management, Policy and Planning was implemented by Ofcom on 1 July 2004.
The interconnect costs are pooled with the costs of providing end to end calls for BTs retail 60 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets to 30 September 2009.
From 1 October 2009 the price control changed to RPI 3.75%.
These controls market going forward.
The price control applicable to this market is RPI-5% up to 30 September 2009. will run until 30 September 2013.
The Determination on PPP Product Management, Policy and Planning was implemented by Ofcom on Key Market Changes 1 July 2004.
The interconnect costs are pooled with the costs of providing end to end calls for BTs retail activities and the costs are recovered over all calls on an equivalent basis.
Each physical call crossing BTs Overall the fixed line calls market is shrinking.
The contraction of the fixed market is driven by network is charged PPP only once.
As PPP is incurred on all calls in markets where BT has SMP, it is substitution of broadband and mobile.
relevant for the Fixed Call Termination market.
The price control applicable for PPP is RPI 0.75% up to Interconnect Circuit volumes have declined slowly throughout the year driven by several factors: 30 September 2009.
From 1 October 2009 the price control for PPP changed to RPI 1.50%.
the migration of narrowband data dial traffic to broadband services: and The charge controls for these services are summarised as follows: the ongoing migration from fixed public narrowband networks to mobile networks.
CPs building direct interconnection with other CPs and by-passing BT.
Service Previous NCC New NCC CPs building their own 21CN networks and considering requirements for NGN inter-connects with the BT network.
1 Oct 2005 30 Sept 2009 1 Oct 2009 30 Sept 2013 CPs rationalising their existing interconnections with BT.
Call Termination RPI - 5% RPI 3.75% CPs moving to Wholesale Calls packages removing the requirement for Interconnect Circuits The substitution impact of VOIP Voice Over IP calls is growing and will potentially have a greater Product Management, RPI 0.75% RPI 1.50% impact in the future as Broadband Service Providers move towards double and triple play offerings in a Policy and Planning move to consolidate market share and grow revenue.
PPP Market: Fixed Call Termination Key Market Changes Definition Overall the fixed line calls market is shrinking.
The Review of fixed geographic call termination markets was concerned with the wholesale conveyance Call termination has declined steadily throughout the year driven by several factors: service fixed geographic call termination only.
The ongoing migration of call termination minutes from fixed public narrowband networks to The economic market is defined as fixed geographic call termination on each individual Public mobile networks.
This definition is slightly narrower than that recommended by the European Commission, which could be adjudged to include non-geographic call The substitution impact of VOIP Voice Over IP calls is growing and will potentially have a termination services as well.
The difference is deemed justifiable in that non-geographic call greater impact in the future as Broadband Service Providers move towards double and triple termination markets are subject to different payment arrangements that are not purely calling party play offerings in a move to consolidate market share and grow revenue.
pays and, moreover, they are competitive in the UK.
Similarly growth in Local Loop Unbundling LLU lines is beginning to erode call termination volumes with major players marketing double play offerings to their customer base, where voice After discussions with Ofcom it was agreed that due to the material changes that would be required for services are provided alongside high speed data.
the financial year ended 31 March 2005 the definition would be amended to include non-geographic as well as geographic calls for the Current Cost Financial Statements 2005.
All PECNs that terminate fixed geographic calls have SMP in the provision of call termination services Market: Wholesale Trunk Segments when providing such services to all other PECNs.
Ofcom therefore designated that each relevant PECN has SMP.
Definition Key Regulatory Changes This market covers the provision of trunk segments across core transmission networks.
These trunk In 2009 10 Ofcom carried out a review of the Fixed Narrowband Services Wholesale Market and a services are often used to provide a link between origination services where a communications provider review of the Network Charge Controls.
Ofcom concluded that BT still has SMP in the call termination does not have available network to its nearest point of connection.
As in the case of symmetric 61 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets broadband origination services, trunk segment services may be used to provide a wide range of downstream retail services.
Basket Value of X Sub Caps The particular services provided are the same as described above for symmetric broadband origination.
3.25 RPI - 0% sub-cap on sub-basket of No stand alone trunk segment services were sold to third parties, although such a service may be TISBO terminating segments.
requested at some point in the future.
RPI 5% sub-cap on each charge LLU backhaul consists of LLU backhaul trunk and LLU backhaul link.
LLU backhaul trunk is similar to the excluding POH charges.
trunk segment of a leased line and is hence a substitute for trunk segments.
Therefore, LLU backhaul RPI - 0% sub-cap on each charge trunk segments are considered to be part of the wholesale trunk segment market.
Additionally, LLU backhaul services, RBS backhaul circuits and Netstream 16 Longline may, in POC end and third party end RPI - 0 No charge can increase more than 5% particular circumstances, involve some trunk segment services as part of the overall service.
correspond to intra core transmission on the BT network.
This element for RBS and Netstream circuits is included in the relevant TISBO market.
All relevant ancillary services used in RPI - 0 None.
the provision of TI services in scope OFCOM concluded that a national market exists for trunk segments and that BT has SMP in the national of the TI Basket.
market for wholesale trunk segments.
SDSL based circuits fall into the market for low bandwidth traditional interface symmetric broadband origination.
Core conveyance relating to these services is carried across BTs Asynchronous Transfer In addition, Ofcom determined starting charges for Terminating and trunk segments.
They also required Mode ATM network, rather than its SDH network.
OFCOM therefore considered that its SMP finding the introduction of separate Point of Handover rental charges to replace the current local end uplift is equally applicable to trunk segments conveyed across the ATM network as well as the SDH network.
factor included in the rental price of external local ends.
To balance the introduction of the new separate Point of Handover charges, Ofcom required a corresponding reduction to external local end Key Regulatory Changes prices.
In December 2008 Ofcom published its Final Statement on the Business Connectivity Market Review.
Ofcom found BT to continue to have SMP in the market for trunk segments at all bandwidths.
On 2 September 2009, Cable & Wireless lodged an appeal with the Competition Appeal Tribunal Ofcom increased regulation in the Trunk market by imposing a charge control and requiring prices to be contesting certain parts of Ofcoms Leased Line Charge Control Statement.
If successful, this could notified at 90 days.
Ofcom also changed the definition of trunk segments from one based on links affect both future year wholesale line prices and prices for wholesale leased lines in 2010 11. between two BT SDH Tier 1 nodes to one based on routes between defined major urban areas.
This new methodology was backdated to 8 December 2008 and impacts upon prices for 2009 10.
Key Market Changes Ofcom also imposed additional Service Level Agreement Service Level Guarantee requirements from There is significant competition on major trunk routes.
Prices have been reduced significantly during December 2008. the year.
Customers continue to rationalise their networks which has resulted in a fall in the average Following a separate Consultation, Ofcom published on 2 September 2009 its Statement on the Leased trunk distance per circuit.
All of these factors have contributed to a material reduction in revenue.
Ofcom imposed the following RPI X% charge control on Trunk services as a remedy to its finding of SMP for BT note that there is a single overall TI basket comprising connection and rental for low bandwidth, high bandwidth and very high bandwidth TISBO services as well as rental Market: Technical Areas Point of Handover for Trunk services : Definition Point of Handover PoH is a Technical Area associated with the Traditional Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination TISBO market, rather than a market in itself.
It is a necessary technical function to enable network interconnection, in order to allow the provision of wholesale products in the TISBO market.
In all TISBO markets where BT has SMP see below, we are required to provide PoH services in two varieties: Customer Sited Handover CSH and In-Span Handover, including ISH Extension.
When 62 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets providing CSH, BT delivers TISBO services to the premises of its wholesale customers.
When providing ISH, BT and the wholesale customer connect their networks at a notional mid-point.
These controls run from 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2012.
Key Regulatory Changes In addition, Ofcom determined starting charges for Terminating and trunk segments.
They also required the introduction of separate Point of Handover rental charges to replace the current local end uplift In December 2008 Ofcom published its Final Statement on the Business Connectivity Market Review.
To balance the introduction of the new Ofcom found BT to continue to have SMP in the following markets: separate Point of Handover charges, Ofcom required a corresponding reduction to external local end prices.
Low bandwidth TISBO up to and including 8Mb: High bandwidth TISBO above 8Mb and including 34 45 Mbit s excluding the CELA : The values of X in the charge control apply to BTs prices after these adjustments have been made.
Very high bandwidth TISBO above 34 45 Mbit s and including 155Mbit s excluding the CELA : On 2 September 2009 Cable & Wireless lodged an appeal with the Competition Appeal Tribunal and contesting certain parts of Ofcoms Statement.
Depending on the outcome of the appeal there may be Trunk segments at all bandwidths.
a varying effect on BTs pricing.
Ofcom increased regulation in the Trunk market by imposing a charge control and requiring prices to be Key Market Changes notified at 90 days.
It also changed the definition of trunk segments from one based on links between two BT SDH Tier 1 nodes to one based on routes between defined major urban areas.
This new There are new services published within this market in 2009 10 which capture the revenues associated methodology was backdated to 8 December 2008 and impacts upon prices for 2009 10. with the new Point of Handover rental charges introduced from October 2009.
Other changes reflected in the market include customers looking to rationalise their networks, i. e. reduce the number of sites Ofcom also imposed more stringent Service Level Agreement Service Level Guarantee requirements and consequently points of handover, and instead increase the bandwidth to remaining sites.
There which will impact future years.
were price changes in this market in March 2010 to implement the LLCC obligations.
Ofcom imposed the following RPI X% charge control on TISBO services as a remedy to its finding of SMP for BT note that there is a single overall TI basket comprising connection Market: Wholesale Broadband Access and rental for low bandwidth, high bandwidth and very high bandwidth TISBO services as well as rental for Trunk services : Definition Wholesale Broadband Access relates to asymmetric broadband access and any backhaul as necessary to allow interconnection with other Communications Providers which provides an always-on capability, Basket Value of X Sub Caps allows both voice and data service to be used simultaneously and provides data at speeds greater than Low bandwidth connection and rental 3.25 RPI - 0% sub-cap on suba dial-up connection.
This market includes both business and residential customers in the UK.
basket of TISBO terminating Wholesale Broadband Access is split into three markets based on an analysis leading up to the May 2008 segments.
final statement on the WBA Market Review: RPI 5% sub-cap on each Market 1 - those geographic areas covered by exchanges where BT was the only operator: High bandwidth connection and rental charge excluding POH Market 2 - those geographic areas covered by exchanges where there were 2 or 3 operators, charges.
and exchanges where there were 4 or more operators where the exchange served less than Very high bandwidth connection and 10,000 homes and businesses: and RPI - 0% sub-cap on each rental Market 3 - those geographic areas covered by exchanges where there were 4 or more operators charge POH charges only.
and where the exchange served 10,000 or more homes and businesses.
POC end and third party end equipment RPI - 0 No charge can increase more Key Regulatory Changes charges.
BT Wholesale continues to have regulatory and EoI obligations in relation to the supply of wholesale All relevant ancillary services used in RPI - 0 None broadband access products in Markets 1 & 2. the provision of TI services in scope of the TI Basket.
63 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets The floors pricing commitment agreed with Ofcom in November 2006 expired on 31 December 2008.
The ceilings price commitment agreed with Ofcom is not due to expire until 31 December 2010.
Looking forward, Ofcom is conducting a review of the Wholesale Broadband Access Market.
This is due to be concluded in the Autumn 2010.
Ofcom have also proposed 12-month transitional arrangements in the exchanges moving to Market 3 which delays the impact of fide-regulation.
Ofcom is also proposing to introduce price regulation, with a cost orientation obligation in Market 2 and a charge control in Market 1.
There will be a separate consultation on the charge control in the autumn 2010.
The outcome of this statement and the proposed price regulation will impact future years.
Key Market Changes Broadband revenue has fallen year on year, mainly as a result of lower prices in the now deregulated Market 3, where there are 4 or more principal operators.
Overall the broadband market has seen a small fall in DSL broadband users, driven by competition from LLU operators and maybe migration to alternative suppliers.
Operating costs and capital employed have risen for the broadband market as a whole.
Extra capital costs and the associated depreciation are driven by the continued roll out of new services such as Wholesale Broadband Connect, BTs higher bandwidth service delivered over the 21CN network, and by the change to cost allocation referred to in Section 4.2.
64 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.3 - Call origination on fixed public narrowband networks Annex 13 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-discrimin nation obligations where a cost gradient applies Call origination on fixed public narrowband networks Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
Internal External Operating Holding Turnover operating on reval.
66 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.4 - Local-tandem conveyance and transit on fixed public narrowband networks Annex 13 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-discrimination obligations where a cost gradient applies Local-tandem conveyance and transit on fixed public narrowband networks Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
67 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.5 - Single transit on fixed public narrowband networks Annex 13 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-discrimination obligations where a cost grad dient applies Single transit on fixed public narrowband networks Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
Sales Sales Roundings costs Depreciation gain loss Supp.
Roundings MCE note 1 costs Return MCE adjs.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2010 0 4 - 2 2 0 0 0 - 11 4 4 0 1.0 % 0 1.0 % 2009 0 5 - 5 3 0 0 0 - 30 5 8 3 9.3 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Nondiscrimination Cost orientation NCC traffic - millions of minutes mm Average NCC rates - pence per minute ppm Unaudited Internal External Weighted Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Day Evening Weekend Day Evening Weekend Turnover 24 hours Average FAC LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC For the year ended 31 March 2010 m m m m ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm Service Internal Wholesale single transit segment PSTN & ISDN 0- - 0 175 99 56 330 0.024 0.011 0.009 0.018 0.023 0.017 0.039 0.76 External Wholesale single transit segment PSTN & ISDN -4 -4 13,237 5,952 4,780 23,969 0.024 0.011 0.009 0.018 0.023 0.017 0.039 0.77 Roundings ---- 04 - 4 Unaudited Internal External Weighted Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Day Evening Weekend 24 hours Day Evening Weekend Average FAC LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC For the year ended 31 March 2009 m m m m ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm Service Internal Wholesale single transit segment PSTN & ISDN 0- - 0 1,575 379 287 2,241 0.024 0.011 0.009 0.020 0.040 0.030 0.067 0.50 External Wholesale single transit segment PSTN & ISDN -5 -5 15,216 7,002 5,696 27,914 0.024 0.011 0.009 0.018 0.040 0.030 0.067 0.44 Roundings ---- 05 - 5 h See Section 4 Basis of Preparation for the CCA Revaluation Adjustment.
68 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.6 - Technical areas Interconnect Circuits Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientatio on and non-discrimination obligations Technical areas Interconnect Circuits Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2010 19 40 - 33 14 10 1 4 - 77 59 40 19 23.9 % 11 14.7 % 2009 22 46 - 68 33 22 0 2 0 6 59 9 101 10.7 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Nondiscrimination Cost orientation Unaudited Internal External Average FAC see Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price v App 1.2 LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC For the year ended 31 March 2010 m m m m Service Customer Sited Interconnect end to end circuit External Wholesale standard CSI connection v -2 - 2 970 circuits 1,790.74 6,130.81 5376.74 9744.08 0.29 External Wholesale standard CSI rental - fixed v - 8 - 8 6,748 circuits 1,196.52 639.54 470.85 896.53 1.87 External Wholesale standard CSI rentals - per km v - 5 - 5 204,127 km 22.80 5.56 4.10 14.06 4.10 In Span Interconnect with Interconnect Extension Circuit end to end circuit External Wholesale IEC connections -0 - 0 451 circuits 968.57 3,805.39 3186.49 5530.09 0.25 External Wholesale IEC rentals - 8 - 8 13,862 circuits 585.84 451.30 379.86 767.50 1.30 External Wholesale IEC rentals - per km - 8 - 8 345,025 km 22.80 11.47 8.04 32.34 1.99 In Span Interconnect External Wholesale intra-building circuits connections - 3 - 3 3,842 circuits 808.36 3,278.01 2709.29 4581.44 0.25 External Wholesale intra-building circuits rentals - 3 - 3 34,320 circuits 92.88 136.26 114.35 245.08 0.68 External Wholesale ISI rentals - 0 - 0 7,954 100m 0.00 248.09 207.68 436.79 0.00 - 2 - 2 29,900 100m 40.41 210.99 External Nominated ISI - per km 68.75 62.98 1.09 External Wholesale rearrangements - 1 - 1 2,906 circuits 412.87 1,201.05 1122.48 2173.31 0.34 Internal Wholesale standard CSI rental - fixed 10 - - 10 9,134 circuits 1,103.64 503.28 356.50 651.45 2.19 Internal Wholesale standard CSI rentals - per km 6 - - 6 276,152 km 4.10 14.06 22.80 5.56 4.10 Internal Wholesale intra-building circuits rentals 2 - - 2 18,278 circuits 92.88 89.07 74.75 160.21 1.04 Roundings 1 - - 1 19 40 - 59 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
v Revenue shared by BT and OCPs will cause different average charges for the year to occur.
69 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.6 - Technical areas Interconnect Circuits continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Nondiscrimination Cost orientation Unaudited Internal External Average FAC see Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price v App 1.2 LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC m m m m For the year ended 31 March 2009 Service Internal Wholesale standard CSI connection v 0- - 0 263 circuits 1,000.56 1,652.91 1,508.38 2,584.47 0.61 External Wholesale standard CSI connection v - 2 - 2 1,872 circuits 1,508.38 2,584.47 1,000.56 1,652.91 0.61 2,135 Internal Wholesale standard CSI rental - fixed v 14 - - 14 12,800 circuits 505.08 805.39 1,124.16 576.64 1.95 External Wholesale standard CSI rental - fixed v - 8 - 8 6,941 circuits 1,124.16 576.64 505.08 805.39 1.95 19,741 Internal Wholesale standard CSI rentals - per km v 8 - - 8 336,640 km 22.80 5.69 4.91 12.81 4.01 External Wholesale standard CSI rentals - per km v - 4 - 4 180,945 km 22.80 5.69 4.91 12.81 4.01 517,585 External Wholesale ISI rentals ---- 7,954 100m 383.39 558.82 0.00 354.61 0.00 External Nominated ISI - per km - 3 - 3 48,360 100m 68.75 36.14 29.28 105.70 1.90 External Wholesale IEC connections - 0 - 0 257 circuits 160.21 264.66 241.52 413.83 0.61 External Wholesale IEC rentals - fixed - 8 - 8 15,499 circuits 492.96 450.99 378.20 617.68 1.09 External Wholesale IEC rentals - per km - 9 - 9 392,766 km 22.80 11.59 11.93 30.12 1.97 Internal Wholesale intra-building circuits connections v 0- - 0 40 circuits 813.88 6,845.66 5,241.93 9,892.66 0.12 External Wholesale intra-building circuits connections v - 2 - 2 2,612 circuits 5,241.93 9,892.66 813.88 6,845.66 0.12 2,652 Internal Wholesale intra-building circuits rentals v 0- - 0 985 circuits 93.60 148.75 146.29 268.37 0.63 External Wholesale intra-building circuits rentals v - 6 - 6 64,377 circuits 93.60 148.75 146.29 268.37 0.63 65,362 External Wholesale rearrangements - 4 - 4 10,724 circuits 415.74 686.80 626.75 1,073.87 0.61 Roundings ---- 22 46 - 68 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
70 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.7 - Fixed call termination Annex 13 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-discrimination obligations where a cost grad dient applies Fixed call termination Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2010 68 102 - 170 83 56 55 4 28 - 108 62 388 15.8 % 23 5.9 % 2009 71 108 - 179 116 68 5 5 3 - 177 2 491 0.4 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Nondiscrimination Cost orientation NCC traffic - millions of minutes mm Average NCC rates - pence per minute ppm Unaudited Internal External Weighted Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Day Evening Weekend 24 hours Day Evening Weekend Average FAC LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC For the year ended 31 March 2010 m m m m ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm Service Internal Wholesale call termination local exchange segment 61 - - 61 20,034 8,918 6,881 35,833 0.230 0.105 0.083 0.171 0.190 0.154 0.388 0.90 External Wholesale call termination local exchange segment - 101 - 101 33,443 14,234 10,984 58,661 0.230 0.105 0.083 0.172 0.190 0.154 0.388 0.91 Internal Wholesale call termination local exchange segment ISDN 4- - 4 1,718 191 135 2,044 0.230 0.105 0.083 0.209 0.197 0.158 0.398 1.06 Internal Wholesale call termination local exchange stick 3- - 3 1,699 1,013 759 3,471 0.131 0.060 0.047 0.092 0.134 0.099 0.293 0.69 Internal Wholesale call termination local exchange stick ISDN 0- - 0 152 13 10 175 0.131 0.060 0.047 0.121 0.141 0.104 0.308 0.86 Roundings -1 - 1 68 102 - 170 Unaudited Internal External Weighted Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Day Evening Weekend 24 hours Day Evening Weekend Average FAC LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC m m m m ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm For the year ended 31 March 2009 Service Internal Wholesale call termination local exchange segment 62 - - 62 20,152 9,462 7,310 36,924 0.229 0.105 0.083 0.168 0.221 0.181 0.373 0.76 External Wholesale call termination local exchange segment - 108 - 108 35,480 15,614 12,003 63,097 0.229 0.105 0.083 0.171 0.221 0.181 0.373 0.77 Internal Wholesale call termination local exchange segment ISDN 6- - 6 2,348 276 190 2,814 0.229 0.105 0.083 0.207 0.238 0.194 0.404 0.87 Internal Wholesale call termination local exchange stick o 3- - 3 1,804 1,103 830 3,737 0.130 0.060 0.047 0.091 0.156 0.121 0.285 0.58 Internal Wholesale call termination local exchange stick ISDN o 0- - 0 212 20 14 246 0.130 0.060 0.047 0.120 0.179 0.138 0.327 0.67 Roundings -- -- 71 108 - 179 o Retail sticks previously reported as Internal sales services only provided internally.
71 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.8 - Wholesale trunk segments Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and d non-discrimination obligations Wholesale trunk segments Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2010 141 23 - 164 24 31 63 3 26 - 15 149 247 60.5 % 108 43.7 % 2009 207 50 - 257 30 45 5 7 3 4 64 193 270 71.3 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Nondiscrimination Cost orientation Unaudited Internal External Average FAC see Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price App 1.2 LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC For the year ended 31 March 2010 m m m m Service Partial and Private circuits 2Mbit s - trunk Trunk charge per year 69.53 Enhanced maintenance per km charge per year 1.48 Total Internal 75 - - 75 1,057,728 km 71.01 26.00 20.37 56.36 2.73 Trunk charge per year 69.53 Enhanced maintenance per km charge per year 1.48 Total External - 16 - 16 225,159 km 20.37 56.36 71.01 26.00 2.73 Partial and Private circuits 34 45Mbit s - trunk Trunk charge per year 541.92 Enhanced maintenance per km charge per year 2.22 Total Internal 31 - - 31 57,177 km 544.14 216.48 163.36 433.90 2.51 Trunk charge per year 541.92 Enhanced maintenance per km charge per year 2.22 Total External -6 -6 11,824 km 544.14 216.48 163.36 433.90 2.51 Partial and Private circuits 140 155Mbit s - trunk Trunk charge per year 256.45 Enhanced maintenance per km charge per year 5.32 Total Internal 14 - - 14 51,724 km 261.77 259.53 186.92 626.89 1.01 Trunk charge per year 256.45 Enhanced maintenance per km charge per year 5.32 Total External -0 -0 1,880 km 261.77 259.53 186.92 626.89 1.01 Internal Partial and Private circuits 622Mbit s - trunk 16 - - 16 17,145 km 958.50 1,135.67 811.91 3,103.55 0.84 Support Service Internal Protected Path Variants and Resilience 4 - - 4 u3 s3 Estimated total cost 1.1m External Protected Path Variants and Resilience - 1 - 1 u3 s3 Estimated total cost 0.3m Roundings 1 - - 1 141 23 - 164 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
72 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.8 - Wholesale trunk segments continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Nondiscrimination Cost orientation Unaudited Internal External Average FAC see Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price App 1.2 LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC For the year ended 31 March 2009 m m m m Service Internal Partial and Private circuits 2Mbit s - trunk 135 - - 135 1,316,568 km 102.24 25.79 22.09 44.14 3.96 External Partial and Private circuits 2Mbit s - trunk - 38 - 38 372,658 km 102.24 25.79 22.09 44.14 3.96 1,689,226 Internal Partial and Private circuits 34 45Mbit s - trunk 33 - - 33 58,922 km 552.16 274.29 238.77 473.95 2.01 External Partial and Private circuits 34 45Mbit s - trunk - 9 - 9 16,916 km 552.16 274.29 238.77 473.95 2.01 75,838 Internal Partial and Private circuits 140 155Mbit s - trunk 18 - - 18 70,389 km 260.00 212.75 168.66 413.35 1.22 External Partial and Private circuits 140 155Mbit s - trunk - 1 - 1 2,110 km 260.00 212.75 168.66 413.35 1.22 72,499 Internal Partial and Private circuits 622Mbit s - trunk 17 - - 17 17,853 km 927.51 776.90 621.68 1,768.56 1.19 Support Service Internal Protected Path Variants and Resilience 4 - - 4 u3 s3 s External Protected Path Variants and Resilience - 2 - 2 u3 s3 Roundings ---- 207 50 - 257 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
73 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.9 - Technical areas Point of Handover Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-discr rimination obligations Technical Areas Point of Handover Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
74 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.9 - Technical areas Point of Handover continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Nondiscrimination Cost orientation Unaudited Internal External Average FAC see Unaudited LRIC Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price App 1.2 LRIC Floor Ceiling price FAC m m m m For the year ended 31 March 2009 Service External Customer Sited Handover connection - 0 - 0 276 conns 1,591.23 589.94 508.71 701.29 2.70 External Customer Sited Handover rental - 4 - 4 4,943 lines 768.17 352.96 304.36 419.58 2.18 External In Span Handover connection - 2 - 2 109 conns 22,420.45 18,839.79 16,245.83 22,395.89 1.19 External In Span Handover rental - 0 - 0 453 lines 533.41 274.27 236.51 326.05 1.94 Roundings ---- -6 - 6 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
75 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.10 - Wholesale Broadband Access Annex 12 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with non discrimination obligation ns Wholesale Broadband Access Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2010 570 405 - 975 469 336 65 2 19 - 757 218 1,301 16.8 % 178 13.7 % 2009 628 420 1 1,049 402 270 4 30 1 2 641 408 1,173 34.8 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges Nondiscrimination Wholesale Broadband Access Market 1 - BT only operator Internal External Average Sales Sales Roundings Volume Unit b Turnover price For the year ended 31 March 2010 m m m m Service Internal BT only IPstream end user access connection 14 - - 14 388,043 conns 36.16 External BT only IPstream end user access connection - 7 - 7 187,918 conns 36.09 Internal BT only IPstream end user access rental 121 - - 121 1,444,378 lines 83.80 External BT only IPstream end user access rental - 101 - 101 1,228,398 lines 82.42 Internal BT only Datastream end user access connection 0 - - 0 69 3 conns 36.01 External BT only Datastream end user access connection - 0 - 0 11,138 conns 35.92 Internal BT only Datastream end user access rental 1 - - 1 9,115 lines 86.47 External BT only Datastream end user access rental - 14 - 14 164,473 lines 86.47 Internal BT only backhaul circuits excluding Virtual Paths m 35 - - 35 216,104 circuits 163.32 External BT only backhaul circuits excluding Virtual Paths m - 39 - 39 237,453 circuits 163.32 Roundings ---- Total geographic revenue for Wholesale Broadband Access Market 1 171 161 - 332 excludes non geographic revenues - see below Wholesale Broadband Access Market 2 - 2 to 3 principal operators Internal External Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price For the year ended 31 March 2010 m m m m Service Internal 2-3 operators IPstream end user access connection 8 - - 8 219,324 conns 36.11 External 2-3 operators IPstream end user access connection - 4 - 4 102,272 conns 36.06 Internal 2-3 operators IPstream end user access rental 70 - - 70 834,687 lines 84.14 External 2-3 operators IPstream end user access rental - 40 - 40 475,424 lines 83.54 Internal 2-3 operators Datastream end user access connection 0 - - 0 55 6 conns 35.93 External 2-3 operators Datastream end user access connection - 0 - 0 9,044 conns 35.81 Internal 2-3 operators Datastream end user access rental 1 - - 1 7,174 lines 86.47 External 2-3 operators Datastream end user access rental - 13 - 13 151,936 lines 86.47 Internal 2-3 operators backhaul circuits excluding Virtual Paths m 21 - - 21 127,854 circuits 163.32 External 2-3 operators backhaul circuits excluding Virtual Paths m - 19 - 19 115,935 circuits 163.32 Roundings ---- Total geographic revenue for Wholesale Broadband Access Market 2 100 76 - 176 excludes non geographic revenues - see below 76 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.10 - Wholesale Broadband Access continued Wholesale Broadband Access Market 3 Nondiscrimination 4 or more principal operators and non geographic Internal External Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price m m m For the year ended 31 March 2010 m Service Market 3 excluding non-geographical 177 73 - 250 u5 s5 Internal Virtual Paths handover k 0 - - 0 4 36 pipes 571.93 External Virtual Paths handover k - 4 - 4 3,452 pipes 1,103.14 Ancillary charges migration, cessation, re-grades 69 18 - 87 u2 s2 Internal Broadband conveyance in the UK 53 - - 53 u6 s6 External Broadband conveyance in the UK - 73 - 73 u6 s6 Roundings ---- 299 168 - 467 WBA Total 570 405 0 975 The market summary for the Wholesale Broadband Access Market includes geographical sub markets 1, 2 and 3. b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
k This service comprises a number of individual prices.
m Backhaul circuits represents the elements of IPStream Centrals and Datastream Virtual Paths which fall into the wholesale broadband access market.
77 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.10 - Wholesale Broadband Access continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges Nondiscrimination Wholesale Broadband Access Market 1 - BT only operator Internal External Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price m m m For the year ended 31 March 2009 m Service Internal BT only IPstream end user access connection 13 - - 13 370,360 conns 34.86 External BT only IPstream end user access connection - 8 - 8 225,846 conns 34.86 Internal BT only IPstream end user access rental 101 - - 101 1,181,917 lines 85.45 External BT only IPstream end user access rental - 107 - 107 1,243,388 lines 86.29 Internal BT only Datastream end user access connection 0 - - 0 1,046 conns 34.86 External BT only Datastream end user access connection - 1 - 1 29,088 conns 34.86 Internal BT only Datastream end user access rental 1 - - 1 7,753 lines 81.42 External BT only Datastream end user access rental - 17 - 17 210,684 lines 81.42 Internal BT only backhaul circuits excluding Virtual Paths m 16 - - 16 171,696 circuits 92.44 External BT only backhaul circuits excluding Virtual Paths m - 17 - 17 188,084 circuits 92.44 Roundings ---- Total geographic revenue for Wholesale Broadband Access Market 1 131 150 - 281 excludes non geographic revenues - see below Wholesale Broadband Access Market 2 - 2 to 3 principal operators Internal External Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price For the year ended 31 March 2009 m m m m Service Internal 2-3 operators IPstream end user access connection 8 - - 8 237,577 conns 34.86 External 2-3 operators IPstream end user access connection - 4 - 4 111,829 conns 34.86 Internal 2-3 operators IPstream end user access rental 65 - - 65 761,849 lines 85.89 External 2-3 operators IPstream end user access rental - 47 - 47 547,863 lines 86.00 Internal 2-3 operators Datastream end user access connection 0 - - 0 1,075 conns 34.86 External 2-3 operators Datastream end user access connection - 1 - 1 30,727 conns 34.86 Internal 2-3 operators Datastream end user access rental 1 - - 1 7,403 lines 81.42 External 2-3 operators Datastream end user access rental - 18 - 18 222,413 lines 81.42 Internal 2-3 operators backhaul circuits excluding Virtual Paths m 10 - - 10 112,313 circuits 92.44 External 2-3 operators backhaul circuits excluding Virtual Paths m - 11 - 11 118,800 circuits 92.44 Roundings - - 1 1 Total geographic revenue for Wholesale Broadband Access Market 2 84 81 1 166 excludes non geographic revenues - see below 78 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.10 - Wholesale Broadband Access continued Wholesale Broadband Access Market 3 Nondiscrimination 4 or more principal operators and non geographic Internal External Average Sales Sales Roundings Turnover Volume Unit b price For the year ended 31 March 2009 m m m m Service Market 3 excluding non-geographical 253 97 - 350 u5 s5 Internal Virtual Paths handover k 1 - - 1 1,485 pipes 817.26 External Virtual Paths handover k - 3 - 3 2,419 pipes 1,115.86 Ancillary charges migration, cessation, re-grades 38 11 - 49 u2 s2 Internal Broadband conveyance in the UK 121 - - 121 u6 s6 External Broadband conveyance in the UK - 78 - 78 u6 s6 Roundings ---- 413 189 - 602 WBA Total 628 420 1 1,049 The market summary for the Wholesale Broadband Access Market includes geographical sub markets 1, 2 and 3. b See glossary for volume unit descriptions.
m Backhaul circuits represents the elements of IPStream Centrals and Datastream Virtual Paths which fall into the Wholesale Broadband Access Marke et.
sx This service comprises a number of individual prices as indicated by the value of x. ux This service comprises a number of individual volumetrics as indicated by the value of x.
79 Section 9 - Reconciliation Statements Section 9 - Reconciliation Statements Section 9 Reconciliation Statements 80 Section 9 - Reconciliation Statements Section 9.1 - BT Reconciliation Statements Section 9.1.
1 - BT Reconciliation Statement 2010 Annex 19 CCA Consolidated profit and loss account Return or For the year ended 31 March 2010 Profit CCA before HCA Return Holding CCA Return adjs.
Taxation or Profit gain loss Supplemor Profit excl.
Operating before and other entary before reval.
Turnover Costs taxation adjustments depreciation Taxation adj.
h Markets m m m m m m m m Access markets 4,618 3,342 1,276 2,354 205 3,425 536 1,812 Other Wholesale markets 1,671 1, 285 386 161 1 4 561 10 376 Sub total markets 6,289 4,627 1,662 2,515 191 3,986 526 2,188 Residual activities Wholesale residual activities 2,799 2, 667 132 96 1 227 14 146 Retail residual activities 1 7,291 17,217 74 - - 74 - 74 Sub total residual activities 2 0,090 19,884 206 96 1 301 14 220 Adjustments Access - - - - - - - - Wholesale - - - - - - - - Retail - - - - - - - - Sub total adjustments - - - - - - - - Total BT Markets 2 6,379 24,511 1,868 2,611 192 4,287 540 2,408 Adjustments Elimination of inter-market turnover and costs 5,520 5,520 - Other Operating Income - 305 - Profits on disposal of property, plant and equipment - 75 - Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures - 54 - Loss on disposal of associate - 12 Net short term interest - 297 - Long term interest payable - - 861 As In the Annual Report 2 0,859 19,116 1,007 h See Section 4 - Basis of Preparation for the CCA Revaluation Adjustment.
2 - BT Reconciliation Statement 2009 Restated Annex 19 HCA Return Holding CCA Return Consolidated profit and loss account or Profit gain loss Supplemor Profit Restated for the year ended 31 March 2009 Operating before and other entary before Turnover Costs taxation adjustments depreciation Taxation Markets m m m m m m Access markets 4,696 3,376 1,320 252 145 923 Other Wholesale markets 1,872 1,293 579 20 49 648 Sub total markets 6,568 4,669 1,899 232 96 1,571 Residual activities Wholesale residual activities 3,255 2,959 296 10 3 309 Retail residual activities l 17,706 19,169 1,463 683 - 780 Sub total residual activities 20,961 22,128 1,167 693 3 471 Adjustments Access 2 3 1 - 1 - Wholesale 2 1 1 - - 1 Retail l - - - - - - Sub total adjustments 4 4 - - 1 1 Total BT Markets 27,533 26,801 732 461 92 1,101 Adjustments Elimination of inter-market turnover and costs 6,143 6,143 - Other Operating Income - 287 - Profits on disposal of property, plant and equipment - 52 - Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures - 75 - Share Based Payments e - 110 110 Net short term interest - 246 - Long term interest payable - - 866 21,390 21,428 244 As In the Annual Report e Restated to reflect changes in BT's Annual Report.
l Retail Residual has been re-presented to reflect the removal of Retail Markets reporting obligations.
3 - BT Reconciliation Statement MCE Annex 20 Mean capital employed of BT Markets 2010 2009 Consolidated mean capital employed Re-presented l For the year ended 31 March 2010 2010 2009 m m Access markets 12,080 11,121 m m Shareholders funds as in the 2010 Annual Report 2,650 142 Other Wholesale markets 2,560 2,705 CCA adjustments 3,736 1,316 Sub total BT Markets 14,640 13,826 1,086 1,458 Adjustments Residual activities Wholesale residual activity 1,135 736 Goodwill 1,432 1,489 Retail residual activity l 3,416 2,585 Retirement benefit asset - - Derivative financial instruments - assets 1,677 2,693 Sub total residual activities 4,551 3,321 Deferred tax liabilities 1,456 1,728 Roundings and other adjustments Deferred tax assets 2,196 1,103 Wholesale markets - - Current tax liabilities 320 1 Retail markets & activities l - - Long term loans and other borrowings: Sub total roundings and other adjustments - - Due in less than one year 3,260 640 Due in more than one year 9,522 12,365 Total CCA mean capital employed 19,191 17,147 Derivative financial instruments - liabilities 693 764 Other payables 804 794 l Retail Residual has been re-presented to reflect the removal of Retail Markets reporting obligations.
85 Analogue exchange line services ISDN2 exchange line services Business ISDN30 exchange line services Wholesale local access Sub Total full SMP services excluding AISBO Alternative interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 1Gbit s Sub Total: Openreach full SMP services including AISBO Other Openreach Markets & Activiities with no SMP reporting obligations Total: Openreach Services - by regulated market Section 10 - Openreach Information Section 10.2 - Openreach P&L Statement 2009 Re-presented Re-presented for the year ended 31 March 2009 Full service provision Openreach Services by regulated market m m m m m m m m m Turnover No Discounts Internal Salesservice s which are also available externally 2,077 110 262 n a 2,449 279 2,728 0 2,728 -service s provided internally only n a n a n a n a 0 n a 0 n a 0 - e-PPCs - - - - 0 - 0 775 775 - Internal LLU equivalent - - - - 0 - 0 327 327 - Other - - - - 0 - 0 359 359 External sales 470 53 88 349 960 212 1,172 n a 1,172 Roundings 2 1 2 1 0 3 3 0 3 Total Turnover 2,549 162 348 350 3,409 494 3,903 1,461 5,364 HCA Operating Costs Charges from Other BT Wholesale Markets n a n a n a n a 0 n a 0 n a 0 Operating Costs Provision Maintenance 231 10 9 78 328 4 332 189 521 Network Support 230 7 9 30 276 24 300 91 391 General Support 339 12 21 83 455 34 489 209 698 General Management 284 11 19 48 362 31 393 223 616 Finance and Billing 19 1 1 4 25 1 26 11 37 Accommodation 173 12 19 40 244 9 253 192 445 Bad Debts - - - - 0 - 0 - 0 Other Costs 6 - - 2 8 - 8 73 81 Depreciation - Land & Building 14 1 1 11 27 - 27 21 48 - Access 452 18 16 31 517 46 563 75 638 - Switch and Transmission 66 7 25 7 105 38 143 230 373 - Other related 102 5 10 21 138 10 148 115 263 Sub total Depreciation 634 31 52 70 787 94 881 441 1,322 CCA adjustments Holding gain loss 136 3 3 18 154 13 Sub total HCA operating costs 1,904 84 130 351 2,469 197 2,666 1,283 3,949 Supplementary depreciation 144 3 - 16 163 2 Other adjustments 139 4 3 15 155 17 CCA adjustments Holding gain loss 136 3 3 18 154 13 141 29 112 Roundings - - - - 0 - Supplementary depreciation 144 3 - 16 163 2 165 28 137 Total CCA Operating Costs 2,323 94 124 400 2,941 169 Other adjustments 139 4 3 15 155 17 138 14 124 Return 226 68 224 50 468 325 Roundings - - - - 0 - 0 8 8 Total CCA Operating Costs 2,323 94 124 400 2,941 169 3,110 1,220 4,330 Return on mean capital employed 3.0 % 24.6 % 74.3 % 8.0 % 5.4% 37.3 % Return 226 68 224 50 468 325 793 241 1,034 Return on mean capital employed 3.0 % 24.6 % 74.3 % 8.0 % 5.4% 37.3 % 8.3 % 10.1 % 8.6 % 86 Analogue exchange line services ISDN2 exchange line services Business ISDN30 exchange line services Wholesale local access Sub Total full SMP services excluding AISBO Alternative interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 1Gbit s Sub Total: Openreach full SMP services including AISBO Other Openreach Markets & Activiities with no SMP reporting obligations Total: Openreach Services - by regulated market Section 10 - Openreach Information Section 10.3 - Openreach MCE Statement 2010 For the year ended 31 March 2010 Full service provision Openreach Services by regulated market m m m m m m m m m Non-current Assets Tangible fixed assets Land & Buildings 153 16 17 125 311 16 327 237 564 Access-Copper 3,667 102 12 405 4,186 - 4,186 159 4,345 AccessFibre 3 - 95 - 98 378 476 363 839 Access - Duct 3,266 92 65 313 3,736 374 4,110 912 5,022 Switch and Transmission - Switch 195 27 10 15 247 n a 247 29 276 - Transmission 310 9 70 18 407 246 653 758 1,411 Other 385 21 28 98 532 125 657 488 1,145 Investments n a n a n a n a 0 n a 0 n a 0 Total Non-current Assets 7,979 267 297 974 9,517 1,139 10,656 2,946 13,602 Current Assets: Stocks n a n a n a n a 0 n a 0 34 34 Debtors - Internal 285 18 38 52 393 58 451 2 453 - External 86 3 1 10 100 1 101 82 183 Total Current Assets 371 21 39 62 493 59 552 118 670 Liabilities falling due within one year - Internal n a n a n a n a 0 n a 0 n a 0 - External 382 17 29 79 507 75 582 368 950 Total Liabilities falling due within one year 382 17 29 79 507 75 582 368 950 Net Current Assets Liabilities 11 4 10 17 14 16 30 250 280 Total Assets less Current Liabilities 7,968 271 307 957 9,503 1,123 10,626 2,696 13,322 Provisions for liabilities and charges 31 3 5 7 46 3 49 41 90 Roundings 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Mean capital employed 7,937 268 302 950 9,457 1,120 10,577 2,655 13,232 87 Analogue exchange line services ISDN2 exchange line services Business ISDN30 exchange line services Wholesale local access Sub Total full SMP services excluding AISBO Alternative interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 1Gbit s Sub Total: Openreach full SMP services including AISBO Other Openreach Markets & Activiities with no SMP reporting obligations Total: Openreach Services - by regulated market Section 10 - Openreach Information Section 10.4 - Openreach MCE Statement 2009 Re-presented Re-presented for the year ended 31 March 2009 Full service provision Openreach Services by regulated market m m m m m m m m m Non-current Assets Tangible fixed assets Land & Buildings 157 16 13 124 310 8 318 185 503 Access - Copper 3,764 103 9 284 4,160 - 4,160 99 4,259 Access - Fibre 2 - 114 - 116 340 456 325 781 Access - Duct 2,801 75 58 166 3,100 286 3,386 735 4,121 Switch and Transmission - Switch 237 32 12 26 307 n a 307 39 346 - Transmission 302 9 69 12 392 172 564 929 1,493 Other 485 45 15 84 629 65 694 411 1,105 Investments n a n a n a n a 0 n a 0 n a 0 Total Non-current Assets 7,748 280 290 696 9,014 871 9,885 2,723 12,608 Current Assets: Stocks n a n a n a - 0 n a 0 39 39 Debtors - Internal 301 19 42 42 404 59 463 28 491 - External 135 4 3 16 158 3 161 101 262 Total Current Assets 436 23 45 58 562 62 624 168 792 Liabilities falling due within one year - Internal n a n a n a n a 0 n a 0 n a 0 - External 623 22 29 120 794 59 853 406 1,259 Total Liabilities falling due within one year 623 22 29 120 794 59 853 406 1,259 Net Current Assets Liabilities 187 1 16 62 232 3 229 238 467 Total Assets less Current Liabilities 7,561 281 306 634 8,782 874 9,656 2,485 12,141 Provisions for liabilities and charges 39 3 4 10 56 1 57 33 90 Roundings 5 1 1 3 4 - 4 4 0 Mean capital employed 7,517 277 301 627 8,722 873 9,595 2,456 12,051 88 Analogue exchange line services ISDN2 exchange line services Business ISDN30 exchange line services Wholesale local access Sub Total full SMP services excluding AISBO Alternative interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 1Gbit s Sub Total: Openreach full SMP services including AISBO Other Openreach Markets & Activiities with no SMP reporting obligations Total: Openreach Services - by regulated market Section 10 - Openreach Information Section 10.5 - Reconciliation of Openreach P&L Statement 2010 For the year ended 31 March 2010 Notes HCA CCA a CCA a per 10.7 Turnover Operating Return CCA Return CCA Return Cost adjustments adjustments excl.
h h m m m m m m m Regulatory entity as per Section 10.1 5,299 3,973 1,326 2,322 3,648 547 1,873 Reconciliation differences: Use of BT Operate assets b - 179 179 Northern Ireland revenues and returns not subject to BT Undertakings c 135 112 23 Other trading differences d - 20 20 Total reconciliation differences 135 87 222 As per published Annual Report 5,164 4,060 1,104 h See Section 4 - Basis of Preparation for the CCA Revaluation Adjustment.
89 Section 10 - Openreach Information Section 10.6 - Reconciliation of Openreach P&L Statement 2009 For the year ended 31 March 2009 Notes HCA CCA a per 10.7 Operating CCA Turnover Cost Return adjustments Return m m m m m Regulatory entity as per Section 10.1 5,364 3,957 1,407 373 1,034 Reconciliation differences: Use of BT Operate assets b - 199 199 Northern Ireland revenues and returns not included in Openreach management structure c 133 91 42 Other trading differences d - 52 52 Total reconciliation differences 133 56 189 As per published Annual Report 5,231 4,013 1,218 90 Section 10 - Openreach Information asset.
The non-matched element between revenue and costs of these items distorts the Section 10.7 - Openreach Notes Section 10.7 - Openreach Notes reported return in the local access market.
Remove the Current Cost Accounting CCA Holding Gains and losses from each year, as these 1.
Openreach Statements items are the change in valuation driven by price effects in the year and can swing significantly in amount and direction from year to year.
As noted within the Regulation in the UK section of these accounts, on the 22 September 2005, BT offered certain undertakings to Ofcom in lieu of a reference under the Enterprise Act 2002 the Remove Other CCA adjustments, as these items are principally due to methodology changes, Undertakings.
In accordance with section 5.31 of the Undertakings, with effect from the start of BTs where any changes resulting from change or modification to the valuation methodology are 2006 07 financial year, BTs Regulatory Financial Statements need to separately present the financial taken through the Profit and Loss account.
The specific adjustments are not, in general, results of Openreach and include a reconciliation of Openreachs revenue, operating profit and other expected to recur.
items agreed between BT and Ofcom with the financial information about Openreach as shown in BT Group plcs Annual Report.
Reconciling Differences The form, content and basis of preparation of the financial results of Openreach follow, to the fullest The reconciling differences between the Openreach regulatory statement and the Openreach extent possible, those used in the preparation of the Current Cost Financial Statements.
segmental financial information reported in BT Group plcs Annual Report fall into the following main categories: The Primary Accounting Documents outline the methodologies used to present the financial results of Openreach within the Current Cost Financial Statements for 2009 10 Openreach regulatory a Basis of preparation under Current Cost Accounting CCA statement.
The reconciliation of that statement to the Openreach segmental financial information as BT Group plcs Annual Report has been prepared under the historical cost convention HCA, modified shown in BT Group plcs Annual Report is shown for the Profit and Loss Account above.
for the revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
As directed by Ofcom through BTs Current Cost Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the Final Statements the Explanatory Statement and Notification, BTs Current Cost Financial Statements have been and Notifications imposed on BT by Ofcom, where Ofcom has defined certain markets where BT is prepared on a CCA basis, in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents and the Detailed deemed to have Significant Market Power SMP in the UK.
However, the products sold by Openreach Valuation Methods, all of which are annually updated.
As such, a reconciliation entry has been made to do not align directly with these definitions of these economic markets.
exclude the aggregated CCA adjustments included within the Openreach regulatory statement.
The Primary Accounting Documents, dated 28 July 2010, detail how we have disaggregated the SMP b Rental charge to Openreach for use of assets owned by BT Operate definitions in order to show the Openreach regulatory statement and reconciliation of that to the Within the Openreach segmental financial information reported in BT Group plcs Annual Report, the Openreach financial information as shown in BT Group plcs Annual Report.
For the sake of clarity of results of BT Wholesale include a charge for an appropriate return on capital where assets are owned by presentation, within the Openreach regulatory statement, separate columns are contained for each BT Operate e. g. for line cards, electronics and network features but are used by Openreach.
The Full Openreach market and the remaining Part Openreach market activities have been consolidated Openreach regulatory statements do not include this charge, as the basis for attribution of costs and into a single column.
assets to products in the regulatory accounts is actual costs and assets.
The Openreach information includes comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2009 c Results relating to Northern Ireland operations published on 13 August 2009 prepared in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents dated 13 August 2009.
The Current Cost Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the Final Statements and Notifications imposed on BT where Ofcom has defined certain markets in which BT is deemed to have 2.
Access Markets Openreach Level Review Significant Market Power SMP in the UK.
This definition includes BTs Northern Ireland operations.
The Openreach segmental financial information reported in BT Group plcs Annual Report excludes BTs To assess the underlying performance of Openreach's markets on a like for like basis each year it is operations in Northern Ireland.
Accordingly, the results of the access network element of BTs Northern necessary to adjust for a number of significant one off items which impact the operating profit in one Ireland operations form part of the reconciliation.
The return shown in these statements for total Openreach before these items was 27.6% for the financial year 2009 10 and 8.6% for the financial year 2008 09 including non-SMP d Other Trading Differences activity and 29.8% in 2009 10 and 5.4% for 2008 09 excluding non-SMP results and Openreach Ethernet services AISBO market.
If adjustments are made to these markets, for comparability The Openreach segmental financial information reported in BT Group plc's Annual Report reflect the purposes, the return is 714m for 2009 10 and 760m for 2008 09 resulting in a ROCE of 7.7% and internal charges between BT's lines of business rather than the allocation of actual costs and capital 8.9% respectively.
The adjustments are as follows: employed as shown in the Current Cost Financial Statements.
The other trading differences reflect the total of these timing differences across the year.
Wholesale Local Access Co-location activity has been excluded.
BT charges customers upfront for the cost of equipment and the installation of its exchanges.
Turnover is recognised and received in the year of connection but the capitalised costs are depreciated over the life of the 91 Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1 Other Information 92 Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.1 - Network Activity Statements Annex 15 Appendix 1.1.
b See glossary for volume unit descriptions.
c Unit of length is 10 kilometres.
h See Section 4 Basis of Preparation.
1 - Network Activity Statement - Consolidated 2010 continued For the year ended 31 March 2010 Network Activity Statement - Consolidated this is a consolidation of all markets where there are cost accounting obligations Total of operating Average costs Holding costs and per unit on a gain loss and Total CCA CCA mean Applicable capital costs current cost HCA operating Supplementary other CCA operating capital rate of return Capital relating to basis relating to Fully Allocated Cost m h cost depreciation adjustments costs employed on capital % costs current year Volume b current year SMP Cost Accounting components Local Loop Unbundling systems development 17 0 0 17 40 10.1 4 21 a a Directories 40 0 0 40 6 10.1 1 39 a a Service assurance Retail 0 0 0 0 2 11.0 0 0 a a Service assurance Global services 0 0 0 0 0 11.0 0 0 a a Service Centres - Provision 100 0 0 100 3 10.1 0 1 00 a a Sales product management 27 0 0 27 6 11.0 1 26 a a Service Centres - Assurance 50 0 0 50 3 10.1 0 50 a a Combi Card voice 47 0 0 47 140 10.1 14 61 22,199,030 lines 2.77 Combi Card broadband 20 0 0 20 55 11.0 6 26 8,034,887 lines 3.22 Access Cards ISDN2 services 1 0 0 1 2 10.1 0 1 1,245,591 channels 0.57 Core Metro voice 13 0 0 13 29 11.0 3 16 371,275 mm 0.004p Border gateway & signalling firewall 0 0 0 0 1 11.0 0 0 194,866 mm 0.000p MSAN-POSI Voice Link 5 0 0 5 14 11.0 2 7 194,979 mm 0.003p Access Cards other services 8 0 0 8 19 11.0 2 10 a a MSAN-METRO Connectivity Link 50 0 0 50 118 11.0 13 63 a a Core Metro connectivity 107 0 0 107 239 11.0 26 1 33 a a Edge Ethernet ports 30 0 0 30 66 11.0 7 37 a a iNode call set up and features 16 0 0 16 47 11.0 5 21 a a ATM customer interface 2Mbit n n ATM customer interface 34Mbit n n ATM customer interface 155Mbit n n ATM network interface n n ATM network switching n n Inter ATM transmissions n n ISDN30 connections n n ISDN30 access n n ISDN30 line cards n n Internal LLU Tie Cables n n Broadband backhaul circuits excl Virtual Paths n n Special Fault Investigation n n MSAN-BRAS Broadband Link n n Core Metro broadband n n Access Cards ISDN30 services n n Geographic broadband adjustments n n SMP Accounting Separation components 410 5 7 412 967 106 518 n a n a Residual components 2,446 4 20 2,430 664 68 2,498 n a n a 2 2 4 - 3 8 8 n a Roundings n a Total 7,294 192 732 6,754 15,779 1,651 8,405 a This component is attributed on a % basis so no volume or unit cost is derivable.
n Accounting Separation components require no costs to be disclosed.
2 - Network Activity Statement - Consolidated 2009 continued For the year ended 31 March 2009 Network Activity Statement - Consolidated this is a consolidation of all markets where there are cost accounting obligations Total of operating Average costs Holding costs and per unit on a gain loss and Total CCA CCA mean Applicable capital costs current cost HCA operating Supplementary other CCA operating capital rate of return Capital relating to basis relating to Fully Allocated Cost m cost depreciation adjustments costs employed on capital % costs current year Volume b current year SMP Cost Accounting components Directories 33 0 0 33 6 11.4 1 32 a a Service assurance Retail 10 0 0 10 0 10.0 0 10 a a Service assurance Global services 0 0 0 0 0 10.0 0 0 a a Service Centres - Provision 44 0 0 44 5 10.0 1 43 a a Sales product management 37 0 0 37 3 11.4 0 37 a a Service Centres - Assurance 16 0 0 16 0 10.0 0 16 a a Combi Card voice 36 0 0 36 137 10.0 14 50 23,557,777 lines 2.10 Combi Card broadband 13 0 0 13 47 11.4 5 18 8,196,070 lines 2.20 Access Cards ISDN services 1 0 0 1 6 10.0 1 2 1,299,018 channels 1.44 Core Metro voice 35 0 0 35 160 11.4 18 53 406,932 mm 0.013p Border gateway & signalling firewall 0 0 0 0 0 11.4 0 0 218,810 mm 0.000p MSAN - POSI dense link voice 9 0 0 9 42 11.4 5 14 53,440 mm 0.026p MSAN - POSI non dense link voice 10 0 0 10 43 11.4 5 15 160,319 mm 0.009p Access Cards other services 6 0 0 6 23 11.4 3 9 a a MSAN-Metro connectivity dense 26 0 0 26 179 11.4 20 46 a a MSAN-Metro connectivity non dense 0 0 0 0 2 11.4 0 0 a a Core Metro connectivity 47 0 0 47 204 11.4 23 70 a a Edge Ethernet ports 20 0 0 20 87 11.4 10 30 a a iNode call set up and features 10 0 0 10 66 11.4 8 18 a a ATM customer interface 2Mbit n n ATM customer interface 34Mbit n n ATM customer interface 155Mbit n n ATM network interface n n ATM network switching n n Inter ATM transmissions n n ISDN30 connections n n ISDN30 access n n ISDN30 line cards n n Broadband backhaul circuits excl Virtual Paths n n MSAN - BRAS dense link broadband n n MSAN - BRAS non dense link broadband n n Core Metro broadband n n Geographic broadband adjustments n n SMP Accounting Separation components 309 13 11 285 835 90 375 n a n a Residual components 2,876 1 11 2,864 484 52 2,916 n a n a 1 1 1 3 5 2 1 n a Roundings n a Total 7,632 92 222 7,946 14,562 1,536 9,482 a This component is attributed on a % basis so no volume or unit cost is derivable.
98 Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors Annex 16 Appendix 1.2.
q This is the total cost not unit cost for this component.
99 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Wholesale basic analogue internal service connections Wholesale premium analogue internal service connections Wholesale premium analogue external service connections Wholesale basic analogue internal service rentals Wholesale basic analogue external service rentals Wholesale premium analogue internal service rentals Wholesale premium analogue external service rentals Wholesale premium analogue internal service takeovers Wholesale premium analogue external service transfers Wholesale ISDN2 internal service connections Wholesale ISDN2 external service connections Wholesale ISDN2 internal service rentals Wholesale ISDN2 external service rentals Wholesale ISDN2 internal service takovers Wholesale ISDN2 external service transfers MPF Connections MPF Rentals MPF Room Build MPF Hostel Rentals MPF Tie Cables SMPF Connections SMPF Rentals Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
1 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors 2010 continued For the year ended 31 March 2010 Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 8Mbit s Fully Allocated Cost h Components Unit d E side copper capital line 3.51 4.55 4.55 4.55 1.15 7.68 3.51 E side copper current line 2.73 2.73 2.73 2.73 0.24 1.58 3.55 D side copper capital line 32.23 41.75 41.75 41.75 10.52 70.38 32.23 D side copper current line 7.78 7.78 7.78 7.78 0.67 4.50 10.11 Local exchanges general frames capital line 2.41 2.41 2.41 2.41 0.61 4.06 4.81 Local exchanges general frames current line 1.79 3.59 Dropwire capital & PSTN NTE line 18.71 18.71 Residential PSTN drop maintenance line 5.16 5.16 Routeing & records line 12.37 12.37 MDF Hardware jumpering line 19.10 18.35 Software jumpering line 0.35 0.02 64Kbit PC link connection cct provision y circuit 1,287.73 1,287.73 1,287.73 PC rental 64Kbit link link 137.44 137.44 137.44 PC rental 64Kbit link per km transmission km 3.95 3.95 3.95 3.95 PC rental 64Kbit link local end le 297.25 310.04 257.99 198.43 2Mbit and above PC link connection cct provision circuit 1,683.66 1,686.01 1,682.01 1,681.70 PC rental 2Mbit link link 144.16 144.16 144.16 PC rental 2Mbit link per km distribution km 45.80 45.80 45.80 PC rental 2Mbit local end copper le 517.63 69.11 57.19 PC rental 2Mbit local end fibre le 722.52 573.56 759.44 PC rental 2Mbit link per km trunk km 22.63 22.63 Broadband line testing systems line 3.69 2.74 DSLAM capital maintenance line 41.66 41.03 SDSL connections conn 5.19 5.19 Combi Card broadband line 3.22 3.22 Service Centres - Provision q % 100m 5.60 Sales product management q % 26m 3.73 Service Centres - Assurance q % 50m 0.66 SG & A private circuits q % 33m 94.43 11.71 0.19 0.19 27.10 134.68 14.81 0.57 54.85 SG & A partial private circuits q % 74m 148.08 9.07 0.16 0.16 62.36 282.03 98.78 192.29 20.08 3.52 48.17 336.57 435.50 322.01 SG & A other access q % 18m 12.47 MSAN-METRO Connectivity Link q % 63m 42.04 42.04 Core Metro connectivity q % 133m 28.99 28.99 Edge Ethernet ports q % 37m 5.55 5.55 Fully Allocated Costs 1,530.24 158.22 4.30 4.30 396.36 379.57 1,569.76 497.82 2,012.98 255.63 49.89 758.88 2,018.58 1,629.50 2,003.71 187.05 d ppm pence per minute: 2Mbit cct per 2 Mbit s circuit: km per kilometre: 100m per 10 00 metres: trans per transaction: circuit per circuit: hostel rental per hostel rental: % % utilisation: line per line: room per room: cable per cable: link per link: eq per equipment units: le per local end: conn per connection: channel per channel: fibre km per fibre km m. h See Section 4 Basis of Preparation for the CCA Revaluation Adjustment.
y Unit costs calculated as a weighted average of the 64Kbit PC link connection cct provision & 64Kbit PC link connection cct rearrangements.
100 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - connection Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - link Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - distribution Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - trunk Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - internal local end Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - external local end Radio Backhaul Service - sub 2 Mbit s connection Radio Backhaul Service - sub 2 Mbit s rentals Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - connection Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - link Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - distribution Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - local end Radio Backhaul Service - 2 Mbit s connection Radio Backhaul Service - 2 Mbit s rentals Netstream 16 LL 2Mbit s connection SDSL Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
1 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors 2010 continued For the year ended 31 March 2010 Traditional interface symmetric Traditional interface symmetric broadband broadband origination above 8Mbit s up origination above 45Mbit s up to and including Wholesale trunk segments to and including 45Mbit s 155Mbit s Fully Allocated Cost h Components Unit d 2Mbit and above PC link connection cct provision circuit 1,683.66 1,684.81 1,687.29 1,784.00 PC rental 34Mbit link links 1,183.43 1,183.43 PC rental 34Mbit link per km distribution km 359.18 359.18 PC rental 34Mbit link local end le 4,941.61 5,613.97 3,431.49 PC rental 140Mbit link links 3,370.23 3,319.09 PC rental 140Mbit link per km distribution km 473.69 473.69 PC rental 140Mbit link local end le 11,677.25 11,795.85 11,818.55 PC rental 2Mbit link per km trunk km 22.63 22.63 PC rental 34Mbit link per km trunk km 198.46 198.46 PC rental 140Mbit link per km trunk km 247.47 247.47 PC rental 622Mbit link per km trunk km 1,064.32 1,064.32 Sales product management q % 26m SG & A private circuits q % 33m 32.53 84.29 10.92 180.74 78.19 287.63 12.61 270.68 1.94 11.49 10.69 71.35 SG & A partial private circuits q % 74m 260.81 203.87 19.04 1,400.38 214.52 69.38 3.86 2,683.14 299.00 1.43 6.53 1.37 Access Cards other services q % 10m 747.73 747.73 MSAN-METRO Connectivity Link q % 63m 714.60 2,942.46 Core Metro connectivity q % 133m 492.89 2,029.54 Edge Ethernet ports q % 37m 94.34 388.44 Fully Allocated Costs 1,978.15 2,773.42 389.14 6,542.44 5,579.60 1,980.00 9,036.54 490.16 12,066.53 14,501.69 2,083.00 26.00 216.48 259.53 1,135.67 d ppm pence per minute: 2Mbit cct per 2 Mbit s circuit: km per kilometre: 100m per 100 metres: trans per transac ction: circuit per circuit: hostel rental per hostel rental: % % utilisation: line per line: room m per room: cable per cable: link per link k: eq per equipment units: le per local end: conn per connection: channel per channel: fibrre km per fibre km.
101 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - connection Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - link Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - distribution Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - internal local end Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - external local end Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - connection Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - link Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - distribution Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - internal local end Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - external local end Netstream 16 LL 155Mbit s connection Partial and Private circuits 2Mbit s - trunk Partial and Private circuits 34 45Mbit s - trunk Partial and Private circuits 140 155Mbit s - trunk Partial and Private circuits 622Mbit s - trunk Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
1 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors 2010 continued For the year ended 31 March 2010 Local-tandem conveyance and Single transit on fixed Call origination on fixed public narrowband transit on fixed public Fixed call termination public narrowband networks narrowband networks networks Local-tandem PPP Call Termination Call Origination Basket ad Retail Sticks conveyance Retail Sticks Single Transit Basket ae Retail Sticks basket Basket basket Fully Allocated Cost h Components Unit d ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm Local exchange concentrator ppm 0.052 0.052 0.052 0.052 0.052 0.052 0.052 0.052 0.052 0.052 Local exchange processor ppm 0.056 0.056 0.056 0.056 0.001 0.001 0.056 0.056 Remote - local transmission link ppm 0.033 0.027 0.027 0.027 0.027 0.027 0.027 0.027 0.027 0.027 Remote - local transmission length ppm per 10km 0.026 0.038 0.038 0.038 0.038 0.038 0.038 0.038 0.038 0.038 National OA non chargeable ppm 0.003 0.003 0.003 Emergency OA 999 non chargeable ppm 0.008 0.008 0.008 0.008 Main exchange switching ppm 0.016 0.015 0.015 0.011 Local - tandem transmission link ppm 0.031 0.022 0.022 0.022 0.022 Local - tandem transmission length ppm per 10km 0.006 0.017 0.017 0.017 0.017 Product management policy & planning ppm 0.019 0.019 Core Metro voice ppm 0.004 0.008 0.007 0.010 0.007 0.010 0.004 0.007 0.010 0.007 0.010 Border gateway & signalling firewall ppm 0.000 MSAN-POSI Voice Link ppm 0.003 0.004 0.003 0.004 0.003 0.004 0.003 0.004 0.003 0.004 Edge Ethernet ports q % 37m iNode call set up and features q % 21m 0.008 0.007 0.010 0.007 0.010 0.008 0.007 0.010 0.007 0.010 Fully Allocated Costs ppm 0.201 0.201 0.208 0.019 0.134 0.141 0.055 0.055 0.039 0.039 0.023 0.190 0.197 0.134 0.141 d ppm pence per minute: 2Mbit cct per 2 Mbit s circuit: km per kilometre: 100 0m per 100 metres: trans per transaction: circuit per circuit: hostel rental per hostel rental: % % utilisation: line per line: room per r room: cable per cable: link per link: eq per equipment units: le per local end: conn per connection: channel per channel: fibre km per fibre km.
ad Does not include the service Wholesale Call originating local exchange segment ISDN e excl.
Operator Assistance due to immaterial volumes.
ae Does not include the service Wholesale Single transit segment ISDN due to immaterial v volumes.
102 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Wholesale call originating local exchange segment PSTN and ISDN excl OA Wholesale call originating local exchange segment incl Operator Assistance Wholesale call originating local exchange segment ISDN incl OA Wholesale PPP Wholesale call origination local exchange Stick Wholesale call origination local exchange Stick ISDN Wholesale local-tandem conveyance segment Wholesale local-tandem conveyance segment ISDN Wholesale local-tandem transmission stick Wholesale local-tandem transmission stick ISDN Wholesale single transit segment PSTN & ISDN Wholesale call termination local exchange segment Wholesale call termination local exchange segment ISDN Wholesale call termination local exchange stick Wholesale call termination local exchange stick ISDN Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
1 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors 2010 continued For the year ended 31 March 2010 Technical areas Interconnect Circuits Technical Areas Point of Handover Interconnect Specific Basket Customer Sited In Span Interconnect with Interconnect end to end Interconnect Extension In span Interconnect Internal Interconnect circuit Circuit end to end circuit Fully Allocated Cost h Components Unit d Interconnect local end rental 2Mbit 2Mbit cct 241.23 241.23 241.23 Customer Sited Interconnect cct CSI 2Mbit link 2Mbit cct 220.01 220.01 220.01 Customer Sited Interconnect cct CSI 2Mbit per km km 5.56 5.56 5.56 Interconnect 2Mbit connection 2Mbit cct 10,422.64 2,857.76 466.06 1,201.05 Intra Building Circuit IBC rental 2Mbit cct 124.48 136.26 136.26 136.26 89.07 Intra Building Circuit IBC connection 2Mbit cct 3,253.45 3,253.45 3,253.45 3,253.45 Interconnect extension circuits IEC 2Mbit link 2Mbit cct 273.00 273.00 Interconnect extension circuits IEC 2Mbit per km km 11.47 11.47 In Span Interconnect circuits ISI transmission 100m 248.09 248.09 Nominated In Span I Connect cct ISI transmission 100m 62.98 62.98 Point of Handover electronics eq 0.79 710.72 662.36 22,670.95 1,401.70 E side copper capital line 3.51 E side copper current line 2.73 D side copper capital line 32.23 D side copper current line 7.78 Local exchanges general frames capital line 2.41 PC rental 64Kbit link local end le 297.25 36.52 PC rental 34Mbit link local end le 4,941.61 733.12 PC rental 140Mbit link local end le 11,677.25 1,359.27 PC rental 2Mbit local end copper le 517.63 10.47 PC rental 2Mbit local end fibre le 722.52 86.15 99.56 SG & A partial private circuits q % 74m 3.89 14.21 14.35 104.57 204.01 MSAN-METRO Connectivity Link q % 63m 42.04 42.04 42.04 Edge Ethernet ports q % 37m 19.60 85.88 24.56 710.72 662.36 22,670.95 1,401.70 40.41 110.83 113.91 837.69 1,563.28 Fully Allocated Costs 6,130.81 639.54 5.56 3,805.39 451.30 11.47 3,278.01 136.26 248.09 62.98 1,201.05 503.28 5.56 89.07 d ppm pence per minute: 2Mbit cct per 2 Mbit s circuit: km per kilom metre: 100m per 100 metres: trans per transaction: circuit per circuit: hostel rental per hostel rental: % % utilisation: line per line: ro oom per room: cable per cable: link per link: eq per equipment units: le per local end: conn per connection: channel per channel: fibre km per fibre km.
103 Average cost per unit from annex 15 External Wholesale standard CSI connection External Wholesale standard CSI rental - fixed External Wholesale standard CSI rentals - per km External Wholesale IEC connections External Wholesale IEC rentals - fixed External Wholesale IEC rentals - per km External Wholesale intra-building circuits connections External Wholesale intra-building circuits rentals External Wholesale ISI rentals External Nominated ISI - per km External Wholesale rearrangements Internal Wholesale standard CSI rental - fixed Internal Wholesale standard CSI rentals - per km Internal Wholesale intra-building circuits rentals Customer Sited Handover connection Customer Sited Handover rental In Span Handover connection In Span Handover rental External 3rd Party POH Rental 64Kbit s External 3rd Party POH Rental 2Mbit s non CLZ External 3rd Party POH Rental 2Mbit s CLZ External 3rd Party POH Rental 34 45Mbit s External 3rd Party POH Rental 155Mbit s Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
1 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors 2010 continued For the year ended 31 March 2010 Alternative interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 1Gbit s Fully Allocated Cost h Components Unit d Wholesale & LAN extension services electronics le 2,285.39 2,209.61 2,285.39 8,296.02 r Wholesale & LAN extension services fibre etc le 1,583.42 1,571.37 1,582.74 1,632.63 1,586.32 Wholesale & LAN extension services BNS circuit 1,595.96 1,595.96 Backhaul extension services electronics le 3,244.72 r 11,744.07 10,445.50 Backhaul extension services fibre etc le 1,549.65 1,537.57 1,565.76 r Wholesale & LAN extension services BNS electronics circuit 11,034,494.00 r Ethernet main links fibre km 199.23 199.23 Sales product management q % 26m 42.02 49.42 120.95 18.71 22.42 25.62 95.12 r 9.85 26.19 r r 12.53 r 39.43 2.47 Service Centres - Provision q % 100m 1,090.56 913.46 876.70 r r 2,682.50 Service Centres - Assurance q % 50m 59.17 59.17 59.17 59.17 58.05 58.05 r 58.05 Access Cards other services q % 10m 2.85 28.49 284.87 67.51 28.49 284.86 r MSAN-METRO Connectivity Link q % 63m 117.34 Core Metro connectivity q % 133m Edge Ethernet ports q % 37m Fully Allocated Costs 1,675.41 1,719.82 2,097.62 1,731.71 3,322.59 3,224.47 9,267.84 r 1,633.96 1,934.86 r r 14,439.10 10,445.50 r 1,693.44 319.04 d ppm pence per minute: 2Mbit cct per 2 Mbit s circuit: km per kilometre: 100m per 100 metres: trans per transaction: circuit per circuit: hostel rental per hostel rental: % % utilisation: line per line: room pe er room: cable per cable: link per link: eq per equipment units: le per local end: conn per connection: channel per channel: fibre km per fibre km.
r fide-minimus services with turnover of less than 1m.
104 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s rental Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s rental Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s rental Wholesale extension services other bandwidth rental Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s connection Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s connection Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s connection Wholesale extension services other bandwidth connection Backhaul extension services 100Mbit s rental Backhaul extension services 1000Mbit s rental Backhaul extension services other bandwidth rental Backhaul extension services 100Mbit s connection Backhaul extension services 1000Mbit s connection Backhaul extension services other bandwidth connection Backhaul network services all bandwidth connection Backhaul network services all bandwidth rental Main link rental charges Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
105 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Wholesale residential analogue internal service connections Wholesale residential analogue internal service rentals Wholesale residential analogue external service rentals Wholesale business analogue internal service connections Wholesale business analogue external service connections Wholesale business analogue internal service takeovers Wholesale business analogue external service transfers Wholesale business analogue internal service rentals Wholesale business analogue external service rentals Wholesale business ISDN2 internal service connections Wholesale business ISDN2 external service connections Wholesale business ISDN2 internal service takovers Wholesale business ISDN2 external service transfers Wholesale business ISDN2 internal service rentals Wholesale business ISDN2 external service rentals Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
2 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors 2009 Re-presented continued Re-presented for the year ended 31 March 2009 Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 8Mbit s Wholesale local access Fully Allocated Cost Components Unit d E side copper capital line 13.62 14.93 14.93 14.93 25.58 25.53 13.62 13.62 E side copper current line 2.95 2.95 2.95 2.95 5.44 4.06 3.60 3.60 0.65 D side copper capital line 54.48 59.73 59.73 59.73 102.34 102.14 54.48 54.48 D side copper current line 9.75 9.75 9.75 9.75 18.00 13.43 11.89 11.89 2.14 Local exchanges general frames capital line 1.64 1.64 1.64 1.64 2.80 2.80 3.28 4.92 4.92 Local exchanges general frames current line 1.23 2.45 3.68 3.68 Dropwire capital & PSTN NTE line 18.74 18.74 18.74 Residential PSTN drop maintenance line 6.35 6.35 6.35 Routeing & records line 21.37 21.37 21.37 MDF Hardware jumpering line 33.12 33.12 35.30 36.81 Software jumpering line 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97 64Kbit PC link connection cct provision y circuit 1,192.33 1,192.33 1,192.33 PC rental 64Kbit link link 157.18 157.18 157.18 PC rental 64Kbit link per km transmission km 3.86 3.86 3.86 PC rental 64Kbit link local end le 374.88 288.28 374.88 371.52 2Mbit and above PC link connection cct provision circuit 1,494.80 1,494.80 1,494.80 PC rental 2Mbit link link 178.83 178.83 178.83 PC rental 2Mbit link per km distribution km 42.03 42.03 42.03 PC rental 2Mbit local end copper le 1,030.30 121.63 106.76 PC rental 2Mbit local end fibre le 898.72 640.29 798.23 PC rental 2Mbit link per km trunk km 22.81 22.81 Broadband line testing systems line 3.60 3.64 1.51 1.52 DSLAM capital maintenance line 35.84 38.54 1.05 ADSL connections conn 15.18 6.87 SDSL connections conn 14.56 14.56 Local Loop Unbundling room build room 789.84 789.84 Local Loop Unbundling hostel rentals hostel rental 2,431.59 2,431.59 Local Loop Unbundling hostel rentals power & vent hostel rental 1,976.36 1,976.36 Local Loop Unbundling tie cables cable 1,659.64 1,659.64 Combi Card broadband line 2.20 2.20 Local Loop Unbundling systems development q % 4m 0.21 0.15 4.48 1.53 0.15 0.21 0.31 Service Centres - Provision q % 43m 40.40 2.84 2.80 4.82 Sales product management q % 37m 15.47 0.05 58.61 2.32 0.00 0.23 0.51 125.98 32.14 3.40 0.45 0.32 Service Centres - Assurance q % 16m 19.14 0.59 0.60 0.61 0.00 SG & A private circuits q % 31m 51.60 8.25 0.16 24.06 68.10 18.18 0.36 42.00 SG & A partial private circuits q % 71m 132.37 11.15 0.22 105.94 358.18 180.61 206.72 30.03 4.45 51.20 167.46 460.71 SG & A other access q % 28m 13.40 MSAN-Metro connectivity dense q % 46m 63.68 63.68 MSAN-Metro connectivity non dense q % 0m 0.70 0.70 Core Metro connectivity q % 70m 58.83 58.83 Edge Ethernet ports q % 30m 8.45 8.45 Fully Allocated Costs 1,391.77 176.58 4.29 401.34 569.82 1,550.51 802.17 1,828.23 358.70 49.16 1,009.28 1,662.26 1,888.99 301.75 60.92 120.04 923.10 4,442.22 1,663.80 50.13 14.59 d ppm pence per minute: 2Mbit cct per 2 Mbit s circuit: km per kilometre: 100m m per 100 metres: trans per transaction: circuit per circuit: hostel rental per hostel rental: % % utilisation: line per line: room per room: cable per cable: link per link: eq per equipment units: le per local end: conn per connection: channel per channel: fibre km p per fibre km.
y Unit costs calculated as a weighted average of the 64Kbit PC link connection cct provision & 6 64Kbit PC link connection cct rearrangements.
106 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - connection Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - link Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - transmission Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - internal local end Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - external local end Radio Backhaul Service - sub 2 Mbit s connection Radio Backhaul Service - sub 2 Mbit s rentals Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - connection Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - link Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - distribution Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - local end Radio Backhaul Service - 2 Mbit s connection Radio Backhaul Service - 2 Mbit s rentals SDSL MPF Connections External MPF Rentals External MPF Room Build External MPF Hostel Rentals External MPF Tie Cables External SMPF Connections External SMPF Rentals External Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
107 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Wholesale call originating local exchange segment PSTN and ISDN excl OA Wholesale call originating local exchange segment incl Operator Assistance Wholesale call originating local exchange segment ISDN incl OA Wholesale PPP Wholesale call origination local exchange Stick Wholesale call origination local exchange Stick ISDN Wholesale local-tandem conveyance segment Wholesale local-tandem conveyance segment ISDN Wholesale local-tandem transmission stick Wholesale local-tandem transmission stick ISDN Wholesale single transit segment PSTN & ISDN Wholesale call termination local exchange segment Wholesale call termination local exchange segment ISDN Wholesale call termination local exchange stick Wholesale call termination local exchange stick ISDN Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
2 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors 2009 Re-presented continued Re-presented for the year ended 31 March 2009 Technical Areas Point of Technical areas Interconnect Circuits Wholesale trunk segments Handover Interconnect Specific Basket Fully Allocated Cost Components Unit d Interconnect local end rental 2Mbit 2Mbit cct 287.34 287.34 Customer Sited Interconnect cct CSI 2Mbit link 2Mbit cct 255.95 255.95 Customer Sited Interconnect cct CSI 2Mbit per km km 5.69 5.69 Interconnect 2Mbit connection 2Mbit cct 1,652.91 1,652.91 264.66 686.80 Intra Building Circuit IBC rental 2Mbit cct 148.75 148.75 Intra Building Circuit IBC connection 2Mbit cct 5,187.34 5,187.34 Interconnect extension circuits IEC 2Mbit link 2Mbit cct 386.61 386.61 Interconnect extension circuits IEC 2Mbit per km km 11.59 11.59 In Span Interconnect circuits ISI transmission 100m 354.61 354.61 Nominated In Span I Connect cct ISI transmission 100m 36.14 36.14 Point of Handover electronics eq 0.45 589.94 352.96 18,839.79 274.27 PC rental 2Mbit link per km trunk km 22.81 22.81 PC rental 34Mbit link per km trunk km 243.87 243.87 PC rental 140Mbit link per km trunk km 197.86 197.86 PC rental 622Mbit link per km trunk km 776.90 776.90 SG & A private circuits q % 31m 1.72 16.85 13.66 SG & A partial private circuits q % 71m 1.26 13.57 1.23 MSAN-Metro connectivity dense q % 46m 32.99 63.68 MSAN-Metro connectivity non dense q % 0m 0.36 0.70 Core Metro connectivity q % 70m 1,450.05 Edge Ethernet ports q % 30m 208.27 Fully Allocated Costs 1,652.91 576.64 5.69 354.61 36.14 264.66 450.99 11.59 6,845.66 148.75 686.80 589.94 352.96 18,839.79 274.27 25.79 274.29 212.75 776.90 d ppm pence per minute: 2Mbit cct per 2 Mbit s circuit: km per kilom metre: 100m per 100 metres: trans per transaction: circuit per circuit: hostel rental per hostel rental: % % utilisation: line per line: ro oom per room: cable per cable: link per link: eq per equipment units: le per local end: conn per connection: channel per channel: fibre km per fibre km.
108 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Wholesale standard CSI connection Wholesale standard CSI rental - fixed Wholesale standard CSI rentals - per km Wholesale ISI rentals Nominated ISI - per km Wholesale IEC connections Wholesale IEC rentals - fixed Wholesale IEC rentals - per km Wholesale intra-building circuits connections Wholesale intra-building circuits rentals Wholesale rearrangements Customer Sited Handover connection Customer Sited Handover rental In Span Handover connection In Span Handover rental Partial and Private circuits 2Mbit s - trunk Partial and Private circuits 34 45Mbit s - trunk Partial and Private circuits 140 155Mbit s - trunk Partial and Private circuits 622Mbit s - trunk Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
109 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - connection Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - link Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - distribution Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - internal local end Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - external local end Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - connection Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - link Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - distribution Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - internal local end Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - external local end Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s rental Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s rental Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s rental Wholesale extension services other bandwidth rental Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s connection Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s connection Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s connection Wholesale extension services other bandwidth connection Backhaul extension services 100Mbit s rental Backhaul extension services 1000Mbit s rental Backhaul extension services other bandwidth rental Backhaul extension services 100Mbit s connection Backhaul extension services 1000Mbit s connection Backhaul extension services other bandwidth connection Backhaul network services all bandwidth connection Backhaul network services all bandwidth rental Main link rental charges Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.3 - BT Network Services Reconciliation Annex 17 Appendix 1.3.
1 - BT Network Services Reconciliation 2010 Consolidation Statement a summary of all wholesale markets where there are cost accountin ng obligations Non cost accounting, Total from Wholesale analogue Wholesale ISDN2 exchange line roundings and Fully Allocated Cost m h annex 15 exchange line services services Wholesale local access residual Components E side copper capital 93 81 2 8 1 E side copper current 81 60 2 11 7 D side copper capital 843 739 20 71 3 D side copper current 231 172 6 31 20 Local exchanges general frames capital 95 53 1 20 20 Local exchanges general frames current 71 39 1 15 16 PSTN line test equipment 13 13 1 1 Dropwire capital & PSTN NTE 469 415 12 41 1 Business PSTN drop maintenance 24 24 0 Residential PSTN drop maintenance 99 87 11 1 PSTN line cards 180 181 1 Pair gain 2 2 0 Routeing & records 23 21 1 1 0 MDF Hardware jumpering 250 33 1 93 123 Software jumpering 4 1 0 1 2 ADSL connections 13 2 11 Wholesale Access specific 37 36 1 0 ISDN2 drop maintenance 4 4 0 ISDN2 line cards 27 26 1 ISDN2 NTE 9 9 0 Directories 39 39 0 Service assurance Retail 0 0 0 0 Service assurance Global services 0 0 0 0 Service Centres - Provision 100 37 4 12 15 Sales product management 26 1 1 3 13 Service Centres - Assurance 50 22 2 6 13 External WLR SG & A 4 1 3 Internal WLR SG & A 2 2 0 Broadband line testing systems 52 13 3 9 DSLAM capital maintenance 335 6 329 Local Loop Unbundling room build 0 0 0 Local Loop Unbundling hostel rentals 23 23 0 Local Loop Unbundling hostel rentals power & vent 19 19 0 Local Loop Unbundling tie cables 10 9 1 Local Loop Unbundling systems development 21 9 12 Combi Card voice 61 62 1 Access Cards ISDN2 services 1 1 0 110
