American pp58 64 American pp57 64 09 03 2011 15:35 Page 59 Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the ninety-fifth Annual General is contracted to be purchased: or b the price of the last Meeting of JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc will be independent trade: or c the highest current held at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on Friday, independent bid: 6th May 2011 at 2.30 p. m. for the following purposes: iv any purchase of shares will be made in the market for cash 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and or prices below the prevailing net asset value per share as the Auditors Report for the year ended 31st December determined by the Directors : 2010. v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the 5th November 2012 unless the authority is renewed at the year ended 31st December 2010.
Companys Annual General Meeting in 2012 or at any other general meeting prior to such time: and 3.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares of 11.0 pence per share.
vi the Company may make or contract to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry 4.
To re-elect Sarah Bates as a Director of the Company.
of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract notwithstanding such expiry.
To re-elect Hamish Buchan as a Director of the Company.
Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution 6.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors to the Company and 8.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of any authorities previously granted to the Directors, Special Business pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the To consider the following resolutions: Act to exercise all the powers for the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 551 of the Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,074,397, Special Resolution representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued 7.
THAT the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with resolution, provided that this authority shall expire at the Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the to be held in 2012 unless renewed at a general meeting Act of its issued shares of 25p each in the capital of the prior to such time, save that the Company may before such Company ordinary shares.
expiry make offers, agreements or arrangements which PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and so that the Directors of the Company i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offers, be purchased shall be 6,442,090 or if less, that number agreements or arrangements as if the authority conferred of shares which is equal to 14.99% of the Companys hereby had not expired.
issued share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution: Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of relevant securities Special Resolution ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall 9.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 8 set out above, be 25p: the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby iii the maximum price which may be paid for a share shall empowered pursuant to Section 570 and 573 of the Act to be an amount equal to the highest of: a 105% of the allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of average of the middle market quotations for a share the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by taken from and calculated by reference to the London Resolution8 or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such days immediately preceding the day on which the share JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 59 American pp58 64 American pp57 64 09 03 2011 15:35 Page 60 Notice of Meeting continued Notes allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate reverse of the proxy form.
nominal amount of 1,074,397, representing approximately 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint 10% of the issued ordinary share capital as at the date of another person s who need not be a member of the Company the passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the net asset value per share and shall expire upon the expiry meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the of the general authority conferred by Resolution 8 above, rights attaching to different shares held by him.
save that the Company may before such expiry make offers, 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must or agreements which would or might require equity attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the securities to be allotted after such expiry and so that the Chairman, another director of the Company or another person who Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or proxies using pursuant of such offers, or agreements as if the power the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
If the conferred hereby had not expired.
voting box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and whether he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend the meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does By order of the Board not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
Andrew Norman, for and on behalf of If you attend the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will J. P. Morgan Asset Management UK Limited, automatically be terminated.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in 9th March 2011 accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments see above also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same meeting, the one which is last received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards that share if the Company is unable to determine which was last received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two business days prior to the meeting the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If however the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two business days prior to the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at the time specified in that notice changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
60 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be their proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior included in the business only must be accompanied by a arrangement.
statement setting out the grounds for the request.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint individuals to 11.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information act as its representatives and to vote in person at the meeting see instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate representative.
If a Nominated Person does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right Representatives should bring to the meeting evidence of their under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
the exercise of voting rights.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of statement on its website setting out any matter relating to: a the shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors report rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, b any circumstances connected with Auditors of the Company members resolutions or members matters of business received ceasing to hold office since the previous AGM, which the members by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the propose to raise at the Meeting.
The Company cannot require the Companys website www.
members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the website must also be sent to the 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in Companys Auditors no later than the time it makes its statement the share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at appointment are available for inspection at the Companys the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been registered office during usual business hours on any weekday required to publish on its website pursuant to this right.
Saturdays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company contract of service with the Company.
must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other attending the Meeting except in certain circumstances, including if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order than those expressly stated.
of the Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential 15.
As an alternative to completing a hardcopy Form of Proxy Voting information.
Direction Form, you can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically 10.
Under Sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting by visiting www.
You will need your Voting ID, Task the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to ID and Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of require the Company: i to give, to members of the Company numbers printed under your name on the Form of Proxy Voting entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution Direction Form.
Alternatively, if you have already registered with which those members intend to move and which may properly be Equiniti Limiteds online portfolio service, Shareview, you can moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be submit your Form of Proxy at www.
Full dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed instructions are given on both websites.
resolution which may properly be included in the business at the 16.
As at 8th March 2011 being the latest business day prior to the Meeting.
A resolution may properly be moved, or a matter properly publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital included in the business unless: a in the case of a resolution only consists of 42,975,949 shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any the total voting rights in the Company are 42,975,949. inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard Electronic appointment CREST members copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and the CREST Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
must be received by the Company not later than the date that is six JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
