American pp20 32 American pp20 32 09 03 2011 15:43 Page 32 Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk and the accounts in accordance with applicable law and website, which is maintained by the Companys Manager, regulations.
JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for JPMAM is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have elected of JPMAM.
The work carried out by the auditors does not to prepare the accounts in accordance with United Kingdom involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom website and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law, for any changes that have occurred to the accounts since they the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are were initially presented on the website.
The accounts are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs prepared in accordance with UK legislation, which may differ of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for from legislation in other jurisdictions that period.
In preparing these accounts, the Directors are required to: Statement under the Disclosure & Transparency Rules 4.1.
12 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Responsibility statement consistently: We confirm to the best of our knowledge: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and a the accounts, prepared in accordance with United Kingdom prudent: Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have Standards and Applicable Law, give a true and fair view of been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of and explained in the accounts: and the Company: and prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is b this Annual Report includes a fair review of the inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue development and performance of the business and the in business.
position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also For and on behalf of the Board responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and James Fox hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Director detection of fraud and other irregularities.
9th March 2011 32 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
