American pp58 64 American pp57 64 09 03 2011 15:35 Page 62 Glossary of Terms and Definitions Return to Shareholders which is based on month end net assets.
The TER including the Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to performance fee payable is the ratio of the Companys management fee, performance fee payable and all other mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends received operating expenses excluding interest, to the average of the were reinvested, without transaction costs, in the shares of the month end net assets during the year.
Company at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Share Price Discount Premium to Net Asset Value NAV per Share Return on Net Assets If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid value per share, the shares are said to be trading at a discount.
The to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV.
The opposite of Company were reinvested, in the shares of the Company at the a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment NAV per share at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
trusts shares to trade at a discount than at a premium.
Benchmark Return Performance Attribution Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received performance relative to its benchmark.
were reinvested, without transaction costs, in the shares of the underlying companies at the time the shares were quoted Performance Attribution Definitions: ex-dividend.
Allocation Effect The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should Measures the effect of allocating assets to countries, sectors or not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys asset types differently to the weighting in the benchmark.
The Companys investment strategy does not follow or track this index and consequently there may be Selection Effect some divergence between the Companys performance and Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or that of the benchmark.
lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of investing in securities which are excluded from the benchmark.
Actual Gearing Factor Investments excluding holdings in liquidity funds, expressed as Gearing Cash Effect a percentage of shareholders funds.
This shows the effect of Measures the impact of borrowings or cash balances on the gearing on the net asset value if the market value of the Companys performance relative to its benchmark.
portfolio were to increase by 100%.
Currency Hedge Total Expense Ratio Measures the effect on the Companys performance of a gain or The TER is the ratio of the Companys management fee and all loss arising from the Companys hedging activities.
other operating expenses excluding interest and performance Management Fees Expenses fee payable, to the average of the month end net assets during The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total the year.
The method of calculating the TER has been changed assets and therefore has a negative effect on the Companys and the prior year figure restated.
In previous years, the TER relative performance.
was the ratio of Companys management fees and other operating expenses calculated as above, to the average of the Performance Fee opening and closing net assets.
The new methodology more Measures the effect of a performance fee charge or writeback.
accurately reflects the way the management fee is calculated 62 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 American cover American Cover 09 03 2011 15:34 Page 4 Information about the Company Financial Calendar Financial year end 31st December Final results announced March Half year end 30th June Half year results announced August Interim Management Statements announced April and October Dividend on ordinary shares paid May Annual General Meeting May History Companys Registered Office The Company has its origins in the Alabama, New Orleans, Texas Finsbury Dials and Pacific Junction Railways Company Limited which was 20 Finsbury Street formed in 1881 to acquire interests in, and to undertake the London EC2Y 9AQ completion of, three American railroads the Vicksburg and Telephone number: 020 7742 6000 Meridian, the Vicksburg, Shreveport and Pacific and the New For company secretarial and administrative matters, please Orleans and North Eastern.
In 1917 the Company was contact Andrew Norman.
reorganised, a proportion of the railroad interests were sold, and Custodian the investment powers were widened enabling its assets to be JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. invested in several countries including the United Kingdom.
To reflect the new objectives the name was changed to The Sterling 125 London Wall London EC2Y 5AJ Trust.
The Companys investment policy reverted to North American securities in 1982 when the name was changed to The Registrars Fleming American Investment Trust plc.
The name was changed Equiniti to JPMorgan Fleming American Investment Trust plc in April Reference 1077 2002 and to its present form in 2006.
JPMorgan has been the Aspect House Companys manager and secretary since 1966.
Spencer Road Company Numbers West Sussex BN99 6DA Company registration number: 15543 Telephone number: 0871 384 2316 London Stock Exchange number: 08456505 Calls to this number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other ISIN: GB0008465055 providers costs may vary.
Lines open 8.30 a. m. to 5.30 p. m. Monday Bloomberg code: JAM LN to Friday.
The overseas helpline number is 44 0 121 415 7047 Notifications of changes of address and enquiries regarding share Market Information certificates or dividend cheques should be made in writing to the The Companys net asset value NAV is published daily via the Registrar quoting reference 1077.
The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the price is noted daily in the Registered shareholders can obtain further details on their Financial Times, The Times, The Daily Telegraph, The Scotsman, holdings on the internet by visiting www.
co. uk The Independent and on the J. P. Morgan website at Independent Auditor www.
co. uk, where the share price is updated every Deloitte LLP fifteen minutes during trading hours.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Website Stonecutter Court www.
co. uk 1 Stonecutter Street London EC4A 4TR Share Transactions The Companys shares may be dealt in directly through a stockbroker Brokers or professional adviser acting on an investors behalf.
They may also Collins Stewart Europe Limited be purchased and held through the J. P. Morgan Investment Account, 88 Wood Street J. P. Morgan ISA and J. P. Morgan SIPP.
These products are all available London EC2V 7QR on the online wealth manager service, J. P. Morgan WealthManager Savings Product Administrators available at www.
co. uk For queries on the J. P. Morgan Investment Account, J. P. Morgan ISA and J. P. Morgan SIPP, see contact details on the back cover of this Manager and Company Secretary report.
JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited A member of the AIC JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 65 American cover American Cover 09 03 2011 15:34 Page 1 J. P. Morgan Helpline Freephone 0800 20 40 20 or 44 0 20 7742 9995 Your telephone call may be recorded for your security www.
