Glossary of Terms and Definitions Portfolio Total Return Net of Fees and Expenses Undiluted Return on Net Assets Total return on net assets, that is net of management fees and Return on the undiluted NAV per share, on a bid value to bid administration expenses, but excluding the effect of value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the Subscription shares which have been converted during the Company were reinvested into the shares of the Company at year and the dilutive impact of Subscription shares in issue at the undiluted NAV per share at the time the shares were the year end.
In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which Benchmark Return have been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to date are deducted from the undiluted net asset value per share mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received when calculating the undiluted return on net assets.
were reinvested in the shares of the underlying companies at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Actual Gearing Factor The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should Investments expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys This shows the effect of gearing on the net asset value per share investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy does if the market value of the portfolio were to increase by 100%.
not follow or track this index and consequently, there may be some divergence between the Companys performance and Total Expense Ratio that of the benchmark.
Management fees and all other operating expenses excluding interest and performance fee payable, expressed as a Return to Ordinary Shareholders percentage of the average of the month end net assets during Total return to the Ordinary shareholder on a mid-market price the year 2008 and prior years: the average of the opening and to mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends received closing net assets.
were reinvested, without transaction costs, into the Ordinary shares of the Company at the time the shares were quoted Total Expense Ratio Including Performance Fee ex-dividend.
Management fees, all other operating expenses and performance fee payable, but excluding interest, expressed as Diluted Net Asset Value NAV per Ordinary Share a percentage of the average of the month end net assets during The diluted NAV per Ordinary share assuming that all the year 2008 and prior years: the average of the opening and outstanding dilutive Subscription shares were converted into closing net assets.
Ordinary shares at the year end.
Share Price Discount to Diluted NAV per Ordinary Share Diluted Return on Net Assets If the share price of an investment company is lower than the Return on the diluted NAV, on a bid value to bid value basis, NAV per share, the shares are said to be trading at a discount.
assuming that all dividends paid out by the Company were The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV.
The opposite reinvested into the shares of the Company at the diluted NAV of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an per share at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
investment companys shares to trade at a discount than at a premium.
In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which have been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet Return per Ordinary Share Diluted date are deducted from the diluted NAV when calculating the diluted return on net assets.
The diluted return per Ordinary share represents the return on ordinary activities after taxation divided by the weighted 62 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year as Currency Effect adjusted in accordance with the requirements of Financial Measures the impact of currency exposure differences Reporting Standard 22 Earnings per share.
between the Companys portfolio and its benchmark.
Gearing Cash Return per Ordinary Share Undiluted Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash The undiluted return per Ordinary share represents the return balances on the Companys relative performance.
on ordinary activities after taxation divided by the weighted Dividends Residual average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Represents timing differences in respect of cash flows and dividends.
Active Position Management Fees Other Expenses The active position shows the difference between the The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total Companys holding of an individual stock, sector or country assets, and therefore has a negative effect on relative versus that stock, sector or countrys benchmark.
number indicates an active decision by the investment manager to own more of i. e. be overweight that stock, sector Share Buybacks or country versus the benchmark and a negative number, a Measures the enhancement to net assets of buying back the decision to hold less of i. e. be underweight a particular stock, Companys shares for cancellation at a price less than the sector or country versus the benchmark.
Company's net asset value per share.
Exercise of Subscription Shares Performance Attribution Measures the negative impact on the net asset value NAV per Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded share arising from the exercise of Subscription shares into performance relative to its benchmark.
Ordinary shares at a price less than the NAV per share.
Subscription Share Dilution Performance Attribution Definitions: Measures the dilutive impact on the net asset value NAV per Stock Selection share arising from the potential exercise of all the outstanding Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or Subscription shares into Ordinary shares at a price less than lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of the NAV per share.
investing in securities which are not included in the benchmark.
JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
