Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial website, which is maintained by the Companys Manager, statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial JPMAM is, so far as it relates to the Company, the statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors responsibility of JPMAM.
The work carried out by the Auditors have prepared the financial statements in accordance with does not involve consideration of the maintenance and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice integrity of this website and, accordingly, the Auditors accept United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements since they were initially presented on financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a the website.
The financial statements are prepared in true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of accordance with UK legislation, which may differ from the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing legislation in other jurisdictions.
these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Statement under the Disclosure & Transparency Rules 4.1.
12 consistently: The Directors each confirm to the best of their knowledge that: make judgements and accounting estimates that are a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with reasonable and prudent: United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have United Kingdom Accounting Standards and Applicable been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed Law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, and explained in the accounts: and financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is b this Annual Report includes a fair review of the inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue development and performance of the business and the in business.
position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time For and on behalf of the Board the financial position of the Company and enable them to James M Long, ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Chairman Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
10th December 2010 They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
