Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the fourteenth Annual General the Company may before such expiry make offers or Meeting of JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc will be held at agreements which would or might require shares to be The Salters Hall, 4 Fore Street, London, EC2Y 5DE on Monday, allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and so 31st January 2011 at 12.00 noon for the following purposes: that the Directors of the Company may allot shares and grant Rights in pursuance of such offers or agreements as 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
the Auditors Report for the year ended 30th September 2010.
Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of relevant securities Special Resolution 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the 12.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out above, year ended 30th September 2010. the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby 3.
To declare a final dividend on the Ordinary shares.
empowered pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of 4.
To re-elect Mr James Long as a Director.
the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by 5.
To re-elect Mr Alun Evans as a Director.
Resolution 11 or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such 6.
To re-elect Mr Ronald Gould as a Director.
allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the 7.
To re-elect Mr Andrew Sykes as a Director.
allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,212,972 representing approximately 8.
To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to 5% of the issued Ordinary share capital as at the date of the the Company.
passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the net 9.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration asset value per share and shall expire upon the expiry of of the Auditors.
the general authority conferred by Resolution 11 above, save that the Company may before such expiry make offers Special Business or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and so that the To consider the following resolutions: Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in Continuation Vote Ordinary Resolution pursuant of such offers or agreements as if the power 10.
THAT the Company continue in existence as an investment conferred hereby had not expired.
trust for a further three year period.
Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special Resolution Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution 13.
THAT the Company be generally and, subject as hereinafter 11.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby appears, unconditionally authorised in accordance with generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of Section 701 of the Act to make market purchases within any authorities previously granted to the Directors, the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of its issued Ordinary pursuant to and in accordance with Section 551 of the shares and Subscription shares on such terms and in such Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of manner as the Directors may from time to time determine.
the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate i the maximum number of Ordinary shares and nominal amount of 2,212,972, representing approximately Subscription shares hereby authorised to be purchased 5% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital as at the shall be 26,537,955 and 1,776,407 respectively, or if less, date of the passing of this resolution, provided that this that number of Ordinary shares or Subscription shares authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual which is equal to 14.99% of the issued share capital of General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2012 unless the relevant share class as at the date of the passing of renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, save that this Resolution: JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 59 Notice of Meeting continued Notes ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary share or Subscription share shall be 25 pence and These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse of the proxy form.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint iii the maximum price which may be paid for a share shall another person s who need not be a member of the Company to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the be an amount equal to the highest of a 105% of the Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to average of the middle market quotations for a share of the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the that class of share taken from and calculated by rights attaching to different shares held by him.
reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must List for the five business days immediately preceding attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the Chairman, another director of the Company or another person who the day on which the share is contracted to be has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint purchased or b the price of the last independent trade: the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or proxies using or c the highest current independent bid: the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or proxies will iv any purchase of shares will be made in the market for exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and whether cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend the Meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does share as determined by the Directors : not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on If you attend the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
30th June 2012 unless the authority is renewed at the 3.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in Companys Annual General Meeting in 2012 or at any accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
other general meeting prior to such time: and 4.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also vi the Company may make a contract to purchase shares applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the of such authority which contract will or may be relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be to any such contract.
treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was last received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards By order of the Board that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was last Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, share.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the 10th December 2010 purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two working days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two working days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
60 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their 11.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated 7.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual s Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a to act as its representative s and to vote in person at the Meeting Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
see instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative s agreement between him and the member by whom he was may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to designated corporate representative.
Representatives should bring the exercise of voting rights.
to the meeting evidence of their appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to statement on its website setting out any matter relating to: a the exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors report members resolutions or members matters of business received and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the b any circumstances connected with an Auditor of the Company Companys website www.
ceasing to hold office since the previous AGM: which the members propose to raise at the meeting.
The Company cannot require the 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any the share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of statement placed on the website must also be sent to the appointment are available for inspection at the Companys Companys Auditors no later than the time it makes its statement registered office during usual business hours on any weekday available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director required to publish on its website pursuant to this right.
has any contract of service with the Company.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member than those expressly stated.
attending the meeting except in certain circumstances, including if 15.
As at 9th December 2010 being the latest business day prior to the it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital of the meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential consists of 177,037,731 Ordinary shares, carrying one vote each and information.
11,850,618 Subscription shares with no voting rights.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting total voting rights in the Company are 177,037,731. the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to 16.
As an alternative to completing a hardcopy Form of Proxy, you can require the Company i to give, to members of the Company appoint a proxy or proxies electronically by visiting entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution www.
You will need your Voting ID, Task ID and which those members intend to move and which may properly be Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of numbers moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be printed under your name on the Form of Proxy.
Alternatively, if dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed you have already registered with Equiniti Limiteds online portfolio resolution which may properly be included in the business at the service, Shareview, you can submit your Form of Proxy at Meeting.
A resolution may properly be moved, or a matter properly www.
Full instructions are given on both websites.
included in the business unless a in the case of a resolution only Electronic appointment CREST members it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in had the CREST Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and must be received by the Company not later than the date that is six clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanies by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
