Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Nineteenth Annual General empowered pursuant to Sections 570 to 573 of the Act to Meeting of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of will be held at The Armourers Hall, 81 Coleman Street, London the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by EC2R 5BJ on 28th October 2010 at 3.00 p. m. for the following Resolution 7 or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if purposes: Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate the Auditors Report for the year ended 30th June 2010. nominal amount of 1,428,667 representing approximately 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the 5% of the issued Ordinary share capital as at the date of the year ended 30th June 2010. passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the net asset value per share and shall expire upon the expiry of 3 To approve a final dividend of 3.20p per share.
the general authority conferred by Resolution 7 above, save 4 To re-elect David Gamble as a Director of the Company.
that the Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities 5 To re-elect Alan Saunders as a Director of the Company.
to be allotted after such expiry and so that the Directors of 6 To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to the Company may allot equity securities in pursuant of such the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine offers or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had their remuneration.
Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special Resolution Special Business 9 THAT the Company be generally and, subject as hereinafter To consider the following resolutions: appears, unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of the Act to make market purchases within Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of its issued Ordinary 7 THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby shares and Subscription shares on such terms and in such generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of manner as the Directors may from time to time determine.
any authorities previously granted to the Directors, pursuant to and in accordance with Section 551 of the PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of i the maximum number of Ordinary shares and the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant Subscription shares hereby authorised to be purchased rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shall be 17,132,578 and 2,708,713 respectively, or if less, shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate that number of Ordinary shares or Subscription shares nominal amount of 1,428,667, representing approximately which is equal to 14.99% of the issued share capital of 5% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital as at the the relevant share class as at the date of the passing of date of the passing of this resolution, provided that this this Resolution: authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011 unless ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, save that share or Subscription share shall be 25 pence and the Company may before such expiry make offers or 1 pence respectively: agreements which would or might require shares to be iii the maximum price which may be paid for a share shall allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and so be an amount equal to the highest of: a 105% of the that the Directors of the Company may allot shares and average of the middle market quotations for a share of grant Rights in pursuance of such offers or agreements as that class of share taken from and calculated by if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of relevant List for the five business days immediately preceding securities Special Resolution the day on which the share is contracted to be 8 THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 7 set out above, purchased: or b the price of the last independent the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby trade: or c the highest current independent bid: 58 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes iv any purchase of shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse of the proxy form.
share as determined by the Directors : 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on another person s who need not be a member of the Company to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the 27th April 2012 unless the authority is renewed at the Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to Companys Annual General Meeting in 2011 or at any the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the other general meeting prior to such time: and rights attaching to different shares held by him.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must vi the Company may make a contract to purchase shares attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry Chairman, another Director of the Company or another person of such authority which contract will or may be who has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such proxies using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or to any such contract.
proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and whether he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend the Meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in By order of the Board person.
If you attend the Meeting in person, your proxy Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of appointment will automatically be terminated.
JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, 3.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in Secretary accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was last received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the Meeting or adjourned Meeting.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 59 Notice of Meeting continued 6.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for 7.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual s the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and to act as its representative s and to vote in person at the Meeting must be received by the Company not later than the date that is six see instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative included in the business only must be accompanied by a may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the statement setting out the grounds for the request.
corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same 11.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information designated corporate representative.
rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Representatives should bring to the Meeting evidence of their Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the agreement between him and the member by whom he was Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have statement on its website setting out any matter relating to someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have a the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the AGM: or b any circumstances connected with Auditors of the exercise of voting rights.
the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous AGM, 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the which the members propose to raise at the Meeting.
The contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of Company cannot require the members requesting the shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to website must also be sent to the Companys Auditors no later exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
members resolutions or members matters of business received The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the statement that the Company has been required to publish on its Companys website www.
website pursuant to this right.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in 9.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company the share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the appointment are available for inspection at the Companys business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member registered office during usual business hours on any weekday attending the Meeting except in certain circumstances, including if Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director of the Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential has any contract of service with the Company.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of 10.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to than those expressly stated.
require the Company i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution 15.
As at 27th September 2010 being the latest business day prior to which those members intend to move and which may properly be the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be consists of 114,293,388 Ordinary shares, carrying one vote each dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed and 18,070,137 Subscription shares with no voting rights.
Therefore resolution which may properly be included in the business at the the total voting rights in the Company are 114,293,388.
A resolution may properly be moved, or a matter properly Electronic appointment CREST members included in the business unless a in the case of a resolution only CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or the CREST Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard 60 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
