Glossary of Terms and Definitions Portfolio return Actual gearing factor Return on net assets, net of management fees and Investments, excluding holdings in liquidity funds, expressed administration expenses, but excluding both the effect of as a percentage of shareholders funds.
This shows the effect Subscription shares which have been converted during the of gearing on the net asset value if the market value of the year and the dilutive impact of Subscription shares in issue at portfolio were to increase by 100%.
Total expense ratio Return to Ordinary shareholders Management fees and all other operating expenses excluding Total return to the Ordinary Shareholder on a mid-market price interest, VAT recoverable and performance fees payable, to mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends received expressed as a percentage of the average of the opening and were reinvested, without transaction costs, in the Ordinary closing net assets.
shares of the Company at the time the shares were quoted Share price discount premium to net asset value NAV ex-dividend.
If the share price of an investment company is lower than the Diluted net asset value NAV per Ordinary share NAV per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at a The diluted NAV per Ordinary share assuming that all discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV.
outstanding Subscription shares were converted into Ordinary The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for shares at the year end.
an investment companys shares to trade at a discount than at a premium.
Diluted return on net assets Return on the diluted NAV, on a bid value to bid value basis, Performance attribution assuming that all dividends paid out by the Company were Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded reinvested in the shares of the Company at the NAV per share performance relative to its benchmark.
at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Performance attribution definitions: In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which have been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet Asset allocation date are deducted from the diluted NAV when calculating the Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in diluted return on net assets.
the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different countries, sectors or asset types.
Undiluted return on net assets Return on the undiluted NAV per share, on a bid value to bid Stock selection value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or Company were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of NAV per share at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
investing in securities outside of the benchmark.
In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which Gearing cash have been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash date are deducted from the undiluted NAV when calculating balances on the Companys relative performance.
the undiluted return on net assets.
Currency Benchmark return Measures the impact of currency exposure differences Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to between the Companys portfolio and its benchmark.
mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received Management fees other expenses were reinvested in the shares of the underlying companies at The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
assets and therefore has a negative effect on relative The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should performance.
not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy does not follow or track this index and consequently, there may be some divergence between the Companys performance and that of the benchmark.
62 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 63 Notes 64 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
