Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors The accounts are published on the Report and the financial statements in accordance with www.
co. uk website, which is applicable law and regulations.
maintained by the Companys Manager, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The maintenance and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial integrity of the website maintained by JPMAM is, so far as it statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors relates to the Company, the responsibility of JPMAM.
The have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance work carried out by the auditors does not involve with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
website and, accordingly, the auditors accept no Under company law the Directors must not approve the responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a financial statements since they were initially presented on true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the website.
The financial statements are prepared in the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing accordance with UK legislation, which may differ from these financial statements, the Directors are required to: legislation in other jurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Statement under the Disclosure & Transparency Rules 4.1.
12 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and The Directors each confirm to the best of their knowledge that: prudent: a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed United Kingdom Accounting Standards and Applicable and explained in the accounts: and Law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue b this Annual Report includes a fair review of the in business.
development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to For and on behalf of the Board ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Alan Saunders, Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
Chairman They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 28th September 2010 Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
