Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty-first Annual General an aggregate nominal amount of 588,558, representing Meeting of JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc approximately 5% of the issued share capital as at the date will be held at The Armourers Hall, 81 Coleman Street, London of the passing of this resolution at a price of not less than EC2R 5BJ on Thursday 8th July 2010 at 12.00 noon for the the net asset value per share and shall expire upon the following purposes: expiry of the general authority conferred by Resolution 6 above, save that the Company may before such expiry 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and make offers or agreements which would or might require the Auditors Report for the year ended 31st March 2010. equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and so that 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the the Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in year ended 31st March 2010. pursuant of such offers or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
To re-elect Elisabeth Airey as a Director of the Company.
Authority to repurchase shares Special Resolution 4.
To declare a dividend of 3.0 pence per share.
THAT the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter 5.
To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine Section 701 of the Act to make market purchases within their remuneration.
the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of its issued ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Company.
Special Business PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT To consider the following resolutions: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution authorised to be purchased shall be 6,849,641 or if less, 6.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby that number of ordinary shares which is equal to generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital as at the any authorities previously granted to the Directors, date of the passing of this resolution: pursuant to and in accordance with Section 551 of the ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers share shall be 25 pence: for the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, iii the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate share shall be an amount equal to a 105% of the nominal amount of 588,558, representing approximately average of the middle market quotations for an 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the ordinary share taken from and calculated by reference date of the passing of this resolution, provided that this to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual five business days immediately preceding the day on General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011 unless which the ordinary share is purchased or b the price renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, save that of the last independent trade: or c the highest current the Company may before such expiry make offers or independent bid: agreements which would or might require shares to be iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and so market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset that the Directors of the Company may allot shares and value per ordinary share as determined by the grant Rights in pursuance of such offers or agreements as Directors : if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of new 7th January 2012 unless the authority is renewed at the shares Special Resolution Companys Annual General Meeting in 2011 or at any 7.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 6 set out above, other general meeting prior to such time: and the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the Act to vi the Company may make a contract to purchase allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by prior to the expiry of such authority and may make a Resolution 6 as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such any such allotment, provided that this power shall be contract notwithstanding such expiry.
limited to the allotment of equity securities for cash up to JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 55 Notice of Meeting continued Authority to sell shares from Treasury Special Resolution Section 28 of the Companies Act 2006, are treated as 9.
THAT the Directors of the Company be authorised, for the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association: and purposes of paragraph 12.6 of the Listing Rules of the ii the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and United Kingdom Listing Authority, to sell ordinary shares initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the of 25 pence each in the capital of the Company at a price purpose of identification be adopted as the new Articles below the net asset value per share of the existing ordinary of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to shares in issue, provided always that such issue will be the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
limited to: Change of Company Name Special Resolution i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,177,116, 12.
THAT subject to the consent of the Registrar of Companies, representing approximately 10% of the total ordinary the name of the Company be changed to JPMorgan share capital in issue as at the date of the passing of this European Smaller Companies Trust plc.
resolution: ii the sale of shares which, immediately before such sale, were held by the Company as Treasury shares: and iii such number of ordinary shares and such reissue prices that, in the year to the Companys 2011 Annual General By order of the Board Meeting, the aggregate dilution associated with all the Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of reissues does not exceed 4.54 pence per share, being JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, approximately 0.5% of the net asset value per share as Secretary at 31st March 2010.
27th May 2010 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on sale of shares from Notes Treasury Special Resolution These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the 10.
THAT subject to the passing of resolution 9 set out above, reverse of the proxy form.
the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint empowered pursuant to Section 570 of the Act to allot another person s who need not be a member of the Company to within the meaning of Section 560 2 of the Act equity exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the securities within the meaning of Section 560 1 of the Act Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the wholly for cash as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply rights attaching to different shares held by him.
to any such sale, provided that this power shall be limited 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must to the allotment within the meaning of Section 560 2 of attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the the Act of equity securities for cash out of Treasury up to Chairman, another Director of the Company or another person an aggregate nominal amount of 1,177,116, representing who has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or approximately 10% of the Companys total ordinary share proxies using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy capital in issue as at the date of the passing of this form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or resolution and shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011, unless whether he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend the Meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, save that does not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in the Company may before such expiry make offers, person.
If you attend the Meeting in person, your proxy agreements or arrangements which would or might require appointment will automatically be terminated.
equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and so that 3.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
the Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offers, agreements or arrangements as if 4.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also the power conferred hereby had not expired.
applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the Adoption of new Articles of Association Special Resolution relevant deadline will be disregarded.
THAT: separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last received i the Articles of Association of the Company be amended regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as by deleting all the provisions formerly in the Companys replacing and revoking the other or others as regards that share: if Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of the Company is unable to determine which was last received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
56 JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the Meeting copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the must be received by the Company not later than the date that is six purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be adjourned Meeting.
If, however, the Meeting is adjourned for a included in the business only must be accompanied by a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on statement setting out the grounds for the request.
the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior 11.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Changes to rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the Meeting Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an 6.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their agreement between him and the member by whom he was proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have 7.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual s such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right to act as its representative s and to vote in person at the Meeting under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to see instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the the exercise of voting rights.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to designated corporate representative.
exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received Representatives should bring to the Meeting evidence of their by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a the share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of statement on its website setting out any matter relating to: appointment are available for inspection at the Companys a the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors registered office during usual business hours on any weekday report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be the AGM: or b any circumstances connected with Auditors of available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous AGM, has any contract of service with the Company.
which the members propose to raise at the Meeting.
The Company cannot require the members requesting the 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other website must also be sent to the Companys Auditors no later than those expressly stated.
than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
As at 26th May 2010 being the latest business day prior to the The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital statement that the Company has been required to publish on its consists of 47,084,653 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
website pursuant to this right.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are 45,694,739.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company The shares held in Treasury, totalling 1,389,914, do not carry must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the voting rights.
business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member attending the Meeting except in certain circumstances, including if Electronic appointment CREST members it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the of the Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting information.
and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in 10.
Under Sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting the CREST Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company: i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution which those members intend to move and which may properly be moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be included in the business at the Meeting.
A resolution may properly be moved, or a matter properly included in the business unless: a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
