Appendix The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, which replaced the Resolution 11 confirms the removal, from the Companys Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act has been implemented in articles of association, of the provisions of the Companys stages but was fully in force from 1st October 2009.
In addition, memorandum of association which are treated as forming part the Shareholders Rights Regulations which amended certain of the Companys articles of association by virtue of section 28 provisions of the 2006 Act relating to meetings of the Company of the 2006 Act, which includes the statement of limited came into force in August 2009.
An explicit statement of the members limited liability Company is adopting new Articles of Association the Articles is therefore included in the new Articles.
which will reflect the changes in company law brought about 3.
Authorised share capital and unissued shares by the Shareholders Rights Regulations and by the provisions The 2006 Act abolishes the concept of authorised share capital of the 2006 Act which came into effect on or before 1st October and under the 2006 Act, the memorandum of association no 2009.
The Articles also include some other modernising and longer contains a statement of the Companys authorised share clarificatory amendments, including, where appropriate, capital.
For existing companies, this statement is deemed to be tracking the wording of the new model form articles for public a provision of the Companys articles of association setting out companies contained in Schedule 3 to the Companies Model the maximum amount of shares that may be allotted by the Articles Regulations 2008 the model form articles, which Company.
The adoption of the new Articles by the Company replaced the Table A articles under the 1985 Act on which many will have the effect of removing this provision relating to the of the Companys current articles are based.
Set out below is a maximum amount.
Directors will still need to obtain the usual summary of the principal changes.
shareholders authorisation in order to allot shares, except in 1.
The Companys objects respect of employee share schemes.
The 2006 Act significantly reduces the constitutional References to authorised share capital and to unissued shares significance of a companys memorandum.
The provisions have therefore been removed from the new Articles.
governing the operations of the Company are currently set out in both its memorandum of association and its articles of 4.
Under the 2006 Act, the memorandum no longer Under the 2006 Act, the articles of association need not contains an objects clause and simply records the names of the include the terms on which redeemable shares may be subscribers and the number of shares which each subscriber redeemed.
The directors may determine the terms, conditions agreed to take in the Company.
Under section 28 of the 2006 and manner of redemption of redeemable shares provided Act, the objects clause and all other provisions in the they are authorised to do so by the articles.
The new Articles memorandum are treated as part of the articles with effect contain such authorisation.
from 1 October 2009 but the Company can remove these 5.
Share certificates Article 12 provisions by special resolution.
Unless the articles provide The new Articles contain new provisions for the issue of otherwise, the Companys objects will be unrestricted.
The consolidated share certificates, in line with the model form Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together articles.
with all other provisions of its memorandum which, by virtue of the 2006 Act, are treated as forming part of the Companys 6.
Transfer of shares Articles 30 and 31 articles of association as of 1st October 2009.
Resolution 11 The provision which gave the ability to suspend the registration confirms the removal of these provisions and adopts the new of transfers of shares for periods not exceeding 30 days in any Articles.
one year has been removed from the new Articles as there is no ability under the 2006 Act to close the register.
Limited liability Article 3 Under the 2006 Act, the memorandum of association also no 7.
Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide longer contains a clause stating that the liability of the shares, and reduce share capital Article 40 members of a company is limited.
For existing companies, this Under the 1985 Act, a company required specific authorisations statement is automatically treated as having moved into the in its articles of association to purchase its own shares, to articles on 1st October 2009.
As noted in paragraph 1 above, consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share 58 JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Under the 2006 Act, public companies do not require one vote against if the proxy has been appointed by more than specific authorisations in their articles of association to one member to vote for the resolution and by more than one undertake these actions: but shareholder authority is still member to vote against the resolution.
Amendments have been made to the new Articles to member appoints representatives to attend meetings on its reflect these changes.
behalf, each representative duly appointed by a corporate member has one vote on a show of hands.
Participation in meetings at different places and by electronic contain provisions which clarify these rights and also clarify means Article 51 how the provisions giving a proxy a second vote on a show of Amendments made to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders hands should apply to discretionary powers.
Rights Regulations specifically provide for the holding and conducting of electronic meetings.
Voting record date Article 63 amendments to provide greater scope for members to The new Articles include a new provision which was not participate in meetings of the Company even if they are not previously in the Companys articles of association, dealing present in person at the principal place where the meeting is with the method for determining which persons are allowed to being held.
The amendments allow for members to participate attend or vote at a general meeting of the Company and how not only by attendance at satellite meeting locations, but also many votes each person may cast.
Under this new provision, by any other electronic means of participation.
when convening a meeting the Company may specify a time, not more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting 9.
Adjournments Article 53 excluding any part of a day that is not a working day, by which The Shareholders Rights Regulations add a provision to the a person must be entered on the register of members in order 2006 Act which requires that, when a general meeting is to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
This new adjourned due to lack of quorum, at least ten days notice must provision is in line with a requirement for listed companies be given to reconvene the meeting.
The new Articles include introduced by the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
amendments to the provisions dealing with notice of adjourned meetings to make them consistent with this new requirement.
Validity of votes Article 67 Following the implementation of the Shareholders Rights 10.
Removal of chairmans casting vote Regulations, proxies are expressly required to vote in Pursuant to changes brought about by the Shareholders accordance with instructions given to them by members.
Rights Regulations, a traded company is no longer permitted to The new Articles contain a provision stating that the allow the chairman to have a casting vote in the event of an Company is not required to enquire whether a proxy or equality of votes.
Accordingly, this provision has been removed corporate representative has voted in accordance with in the new Articles.
instructions given to him and that votes cast by a proxy or 11.
Voting rights Article 62 corporate representative will be valid even if he has not The Shareholders Rights Regulations clarify the various voted in accordance with his instructions.
powers of proxies and representatives of corporate members 14.
Termination of proxy authority Article 73 in respect of resolutions taken on a show of hands.
Where a Article 73 provides that the termination of a proxys authority proxy has been duly appointed by one member, he has one should be in writing as this is required by the Shareholders vote on a show of hands unless he has been appointed by more Rights Regulations.
than one member in which case the proxy has one vote for and JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 59 Appendix continued 15.
Corporate representatives Article 75 iii Article 94 1 the last paragraph has been amended to The new Articles provide that the Company can require a allow the company also to adjust for variations in its capital corporate representative to produce a certified copy of the redemption reserve since the balance sheet date as the resolution appointing him before permitting him to exercise his directors may reasonably consider to be appropriate.
iv Articles 94 1 a and 94 3 e additional wording has been 16.
Retirement of directors by rotation Articles 81 and 82 included to clarify how any preference shares that might be The new Articles have been redrafted in order to make this issued should be treated for the purposes of the borrowing provision clearer and to ensure as far as possible a regular powers.
Under IFRS and UK GAAP preference shares are number of retiring directors each year, with the number to now treated as a debt on a companys balance sheet, rather retire being the number nearest to one-third of the board, than equity.
The additional wording included in Articles excluding those directors who are retiring and seeking 94 1 a and 94 3 e reflects this accounting treatment.
The re-election for other reasons.
Article 81 continues to comply effect of this wording is to exclude the amount of any with Combined Code provision A.
7.1 which recommends that preference share capital from the calculation of the all directors should be subject to re-election at intervals of Companys share capital and reserves and to include such no more than three years.
New Article 82 requires any amount in the calculation of the Companys borrowings.
non-executive director other than the chairman who has 19.
Delegation to persons or committees Article 95 held office for nine years or more to put himself up for reArticle 95 follows the new, simplified approach to delegation election at each annual general meeting.
This is in line with adopted in the model form articles, allowing the directors to Combined Code provision A.
7.2. delegate as they decide appropriate.
Directors appointments, interests and conflicts of interest Article 88 now clarifies that an alternative director is entitled to Article 100 be paid expenses but not directors fees.
Article 90 is a new Article 100, which is the provision for dealing with conflicts in provision which effectively applies the provisions of Article 86, our current articles, allowing directors to be interested in regarding removal of directors, to alternate directors.
Article transactions and to be an officer of or employed by or 92 c makes it clear that an alternate is subject to the same interested in a body corporate in which the company is restrictions as the director who appointed him.
interested provided that he has disclosed his interest in 18.
Borrowing powers Article 94 accordance with the articles and the provisions of the Acts, has A number of presentational and descriptive amendments have been amended so that it contains provisions relating to been made to the borrowing powers provision: confidential information, attendance at board meetings and availability of board papers to protect a director from being in i Article 94 1 a a reference has been added to amounts breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of credited as paid up on share capital to clarify that these interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the should be included as well as amounts actually paid up.
position giving rise to the potential conflict falls within the ii Article 94 1 b this has been amended to refer to total of situations covered by Article 100. any credit balance on the distributable and undistributable 21.
Procedures regarding board meetings & resolution in writing reserves of the Group, to clarify that all reserves of the Articles 102 & 105 Group will be relevant for the calculation and to reflect the The provisions of Article 102 have been amended to make it language used by those preparing the accounts.
The clear that notice of a board meeting may be given personally, reference to including share premium account, capital by telephone, in hard copy or in electronic form.
The redemption reserve and credit balance on the profit and requirements for giving notice to directors who are not in the loss account reserve has therefore been deleted.
United Kingdom have also been clarified.
In order to clarify the 60 JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 procedure for written resolutions of directors, Article 105 has 24.
Notice when post not available Article 127 been amended so that, rather than referring to a resolution in Article 127 is the article covering service of notice in the event writing by all directors, a resolution in writing will be valid and of a postal strike.
It has been amended to allow the Company in effectual as if it had been passed at a meeting if executed by all such circumstances to serve notices only on those members the directors entitled to receive notice of the meeting and who who receive notices via electronic means, provided that, as would have been entitled to vote and whose vote would have before, the Company also puts an advert in two national been counted on a resolution at a meeting.
newspapers and sends a confirmatory hard copy notice if the postal service is available again within seven days of the 22.
The proposed amendment to Article 106, which deals with the quorum requirement for board meetings, clarifies that a 25.
The seal Articles 136 and 137 director cannot count in the quorum for a matter or resolution Article 136 provides an alternative option in the absence of on which he is not entitled to vote or when his vote cannot be specific instructions from the directors for documents other counted but he may count in the quorum for the other matters than share certificates to which the seal is affixed to be signed or resolutions to be considered or voted on at the meeting.
by one authorised person in the presence of a witness, in addition to either two directors or a director the secretary.
Permitted interests and voting Article 107 Article 107 has been amended to allow a director to vote on a 26.
Change of name Article 139 resolution which relates to giving him an indemnity or funding Under the Companies Act 1985, a company could only change for expenditure incurred in defending proceedings provided all its name by special resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006 the other directors have been given or are to be given a company is able to change its name by other means provided arrangements on substantially the same terms.
This exception for by its articles.
To take advantage of this provision, the new has become a common exception for listed companies to Articles enable the directors to pass a resolution to change the include.
JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
