Glossary of Terms and Definitions Return to Shareholders Net Asset Value per Share Assuming the Reissuance of Treasury Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to Shares mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends received The resulting diluted net asset value NAV per share assuming were reinvested, without transaction costs, in the shares of the all shares held in Treasury have been reissued in accordance Company at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
with the Boards current policy on the reissuance of Treasury shares.
Return on Net Assets Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid market Share Price Discount Premium to Net Asset Value value to bid market value basis, assuming that all dividends If the share price of an investment company is lower than the paid out by the Company were reinvested in the shares of the net asset value NAV per share, the Companys shares are said Company at the NAV per share at the time the shares were to be trading at a discount.
The discount is shown as a quoted ex-dividend.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment companys Benchmark Return shares to trade at a discount than at a premium.
Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received Performance Attribution were reinvested, without transaction costs, in the shares of the Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded underlying companies at the time the shares were quoted performance relative to its benchmark.
Performance Attribution Definitions: The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys Asset Allocation investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy does Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those not follow or track this index and consequently, there may be in the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different some divergence between the Companys performance and countries, sectors or asset types.
Stock Selection Benchmark Index Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or The Companys investment universe is defined at the time of lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of purchase by the countries and market capitalisation range of investing in securities which are not included in the the constituents of the benchmark index, the HSBC Smaller benchmark.
European Companies ex UK Total Return Index.
At 31st March Gearing Cash Effect 2010, the index consisted of 1,000 companies with a market Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash capitalisation of between 59 million and 2.5 billion, across balances on the Companys relative performance.
Currency Effect Actual Gearing Factor Measures the effect of currency exposure differences between Investments, excluding holdings in liquidity funds, expressed the Companys portfolio and its benchmark.
as a percentage of shareholders funds.
This shows the effect of gearing on the net asset value if the market value of the Management Fees Other Expenses portfolio were to increase by 100%.
The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total assets and therefore has a negative effect on relative Total Expense Ratio performance.
Management fees and all other operating expenses, excluding interest, expressed as a percentage of the average of the Share Buybacks into Treasury opening and closing net assets.
Measures the effect of NAV enhancement created by repurchases of the the Companys shares into Treasury at a discount to their net asset value.
62 JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 63 Notes 64 JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
