Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, JPMAM is, so far as it relates to the Company, responsible for the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the financial statements in accordance with The Directors each confirm to the best of their knowledge that: United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice the financial statements, which have been prepared in United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Under company law the Directors must not approve the Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a Standards and applicable law, give a true and fair view of true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit loss of the the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing Company: and these financial statements, the Directors are required to: the Directors Report includes a fair review of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them development and performance of the business and the consistently: position of the Company, together with a description of the make judgements and accounting estimates that are principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have For and on behalf of the Board been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed Elisabeth Airey and explained in the financial statements respectively: Chairman prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 27th May 2010 unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
30 JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
