7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:35 Page 66 66 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 General information BTG plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2010 comprise the results of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in associates.
The financial statements were approved for issue by the Board on 20 May 2010.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Groups accounting policies as approved by the Board and described below.
Accounting standards adopted in the year The following accounting standards have been adopted in the year: IFRS8 Operating segments During the year, the Group has adopted IFRS8 which requires an entity to report financial and descriptive information about its reportable segments.
Reportable segments are operating segments or aggregations of operating segments that meet specified criteria.
In addressing these criteria, it was determined that the Group has two reportable segments, being marketed products and royalties.
All significant decisions are made by the Senior Leadership Team which is BTGs chief operating decision-making body as defined by IFRS8, with implementation of that decision on a group-wide basis then being the responsibility of each member of the team or of cross-functional global teams where appropriate.
The sales, manufacturing, business development, research and development and support functions are managed and operate on a global basis and are not dedicated to individual product, marketing or therapy areas.
In assessing performance and making resource allocation decisions, the Senior Leadership Team reviews Gross Profit by segment, reflecting the two distinct routes available to it in realising commercial value from its assets.
All other financial information, including assets, is presented on a consolidated basis for the Group as a whole, substantially in the form of, and on the same basis as, the Groups IFRS financial statements.
Gross Profit is generated from marketed products, such as CroFab and DigiFab, or from royalty arrangements such as Factor IX, Campath and Two-Part Hip Cup.
Royalty revenues are receivable on a broad portfolio of underlying intellectual property rights, covering areas including pharmaceutical products, medical devices and electronic components.
Research and development is an essential upstream activity of the Group, without which there could be no royalty or marketed product revenues.
Research and development activities are managed on a consolidated, group-wide basis and are not managed by reference to the Groups operating segments.
IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised 2007 The adoption of IAS1 revised 2007 has introduced a number of terminology changes including titles for the financial statements and has resulted in a number of changes in presentation and disclosure.
The revised standard has had no impact on the reported results or financial position of the Group.
IFRS7 revised Financial Instruments: Disclosures The adoption of IFRS7 revised has resulted in additional disclosure being given regarding the level of the fair value hierarchy within which the fair values of the Groups forward foreign exchange contracts are categorised and the maturity analysis required in relation to the timing of cash flows.
Other accounting standards adopted in the year The following amendments and standards have also been adopted, but have had no significant effect on the reported results or financial position of the Group: IFRS2 Amendment regarding Vesting Conditions and Cancellations IAS23 Borrowing Costs revised 2007 Amendments to IAS32 Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS27 Consolidated and separate Financial Statements IFRIC14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their interaction 7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:35 Page 67 67 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 1 General information continued Accounting standards issued but not yet effective The Group does not consider that any of the other standards or interpretations issued but as yet not effective will have a significant impact on the financial statements.
Going concern basis After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
This conclusion has been reached having considered the effect of liquidity risk on the Groups ability to operate effectively.
Currently, liquidity risk is not considered a significant business risk to the Group given its level of net cash and cash flow projections.
The Group does not currently require significant levels of debt financing to operate its business.
Further details of the Groups policies and objectives around liquidity risk are given in note 33.
The key liquidity risks faced by the Group are considered to be the failure of banks where funds are deposited and the failure of key licensees or insurers.
In addition to the liquidity risks considered above, the directors have also considered the following factors when reaching the conclusion to continue to adopt the going concern basis: The Groups principal licensees are global industry leaders in their respective fields and the Groups royalty-generating intellectual property consists of a broad portfolio of both licensees and industries: and The Groups marketed products are life-saving in nature, providing some protection against an uncertain economic outlook.
Acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs The Consolidated Income Statement includes a separate column to disclose significant acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs arising on the acquisition of Protherics PLC in December 2008.
The costs relate to the following: The release of the fair value uplift of inventory acquired: Amortisation arising on intangible assets acquired: and Reorganisation costs comprising redundancy, property costs and asset impairments.
2 Accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all years presented unless otherwise stated.
a Basis of accounting and preparation of financial statements The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The Consolidated Financial Statements also comply fully with IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1m except where otherwise indicated and have been prepared on the historical cost basis modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments and business combination assets as set out below.
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Judgements made by the directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 3.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:35 Page 68 68 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued b Basis of consolidation Subsidiary undertakings Subsidiary undertakings are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups proportionate share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity-accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds the carrying value of its interest in an associate, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and no further losses are recognised except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
Acquisition accounting The purchase method is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed are measured initially at their fair values on the date of acquisition, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets, including intangible assets acquired, is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share of net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
Merger reserve A merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under s612 and s613 of the Companies Act 2006.
Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations that are not integral to the operations of the Company.
Fair value reserve The fair value reserve includes the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments.
If an investment suffers impairment due to a prolonged or significant decline in the fair value below acquisition cost, its share of the reserve is recycled to the income statement and any further declines in fair value of that investment are no longer charged to the reserve but immediately taken to the income statement.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
c Operating segments An operating segment is defined as a component of the Group i that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses: ii whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Groups chief operating decision maker the Senior Leadership Team to make resource allocation decisions and monitor its performance: and iii for which discrete financial information is available.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:35 Page 69 69 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 2 Accounting policies continued d Foreign currency i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
Exchange gains losses on retranslation of foreign currency transactions and balances within trading intercompany balances are recognised in the income statement within Operating expenses.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in the translation reserve.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken to the translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal of the investment.
e Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value and are designated as being measured at fair value through the Income Statement on inception.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Income Statement through Financial income or Financial expense as appropriate.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
f Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and associates.
In respect of business combinations that have occurred since 1 April 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the identifiable assets, including intangible assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment see note 2 m. In respect of associates, the carrying value of goodwill is included in the carrying value of the investment in the associate.
g Intangible assets i Initial recognition Intangible assets acquired as a result of a business combination are initially recognised at their fair value in accordance with IFRS3 Business combinations.
Other intangible assets are initially recognised at cost.
Cost includes the cost of obtaining patent protection for intellectual property rights, the cost of acquisition of patents and the costs of the internal patent attorney specific to obtaining the initial grant of a patent.
Income from patents is derived through licensing and other agreements.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:35 Page 70 70 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued ii Amortisation Intangible assets are amortised in a manner calculated to write off the cost, on a straight-line basis, over the effective life of the asset.
In determining the appropriate life of the asset consideration is given to the expected cash-generating life of the asset or remaining patent life if different.
The effective life of each class of asset is determined as follows: Developed technology: expected cash generating life, taking into account specific product and market characteristics for each developed technology Contractual relationships: period to expiry of the contract In-process research and development: amortisation is not charged until the asset is generating an economic return, at which point the effective life is assessed by reference to the remaining patent life Computer software: the shorter of the licence period and three years Patents: period to patent expiry.
In the event that an intangible asset is no longer used or a patent is abandoned, the balance of unamortised expenditure is written off immediately.
The following annual rates of amortisation are in use: Developed technology 4% to 43% Contractual relationships 7% to 50% In-process research and development 4% to 8% Computer software 33% Patents 5% iii Income statement disclosure Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets is included within operating expenses in the Income Statement.
iv Subsequent expenditure Expenditure subsequent to the initial acquisition of intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
v Impairment If an intangible asset is considered to have suffered impairment in value it is written down to its estimated recoverable amount in accordance with the Groups policy on impairment see note 2 m. h Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses see note 2 m. ii Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis to write assets down to their residual value at the following annual rates: Buildings and improvements 5 to 10% Leasehold improvements 10 to 50% Plant and machinery 10 to 15% Furniture and equipment 10 to 50% Motor vehicles 20% Computer hardware 20 to 33% Depreciation is not charged until the asset is brought into use.
The residual value is reassessed annually.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:35 Page 71 71 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 2 Accounting policies continued iii Income statement disclosure Depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets is included within Operating expenses in the income statement.
Profits and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with the carrying amount.
These are included in profit loss on sale of tangible assets in the income statement.
iv Subsequent expenditure Expenditure subsequent to the initial acquisition of a tangible fixed asset is capitalised only when it is probable that the Group will realise future economic benefits from the asset.
v Impairment If a tangible asset is considered to have suffered impairment in value it is written down to its estimated recoverable amount in accordance with the Groups policy on impairment see note 2 m. i Investments Investments in debt and equity securities held by the Group, classified as being available-for-sale, are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss being recognised directly in equity, except for impairment losses and, in the case of monetary items such as debt securities, foreign exchange gains and losses which are taken to the income statement.
When these investments are no longer recognised as assets, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income statement.
Where these investments are interest-bearing, interest calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the income statement.
j Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The first in, first out method of valuation is used.
Cost comprises materials, direct labour and a share of production overheads appropriate to the relevant stage of production.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.
Net realisable value is determined at the balance sheet date on commercially saleable products based on estimated selling price less all further costs to completion and all relevant marketing, selling and distribution costs.
Inventories relating to research and development projects are fully written down in the income statement unless the Group considers it probable to realise economic value from their sale or use.
If the circumstances that previously caused these inventories to be written down below cost subsequently change and there is clear evidence of an increase in realisable value, the write down is reversed.
k Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables do not carry interest and are stated at amortised cost less impairment losses see note 2 m. l Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management and for which the Group has a legal right of set-off are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
m Impairment Impairment testing is performed for all assets when there is an indicator of impairment.
In addition, for goodwill and unamortised intangible assets, impairment testing is performed annually at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Other specific categories of asset are treated as follows: i Equity investments Impairment is deemed to arise when there is a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the equity instrument.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:35 Page 72 72 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued ii Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are subject to impairment testing at each balance sheet date and whenever there are events that indicate that an impairment may have occurred.
An impairment loss is recognised if an assets carrying amount exceeds the greater of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses are recognised within operating expenses in the income statement.
iii Amortised intangible assets Amortised intangible assets are also tested for impairment whenever there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Any impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement.
When assessing the recoverable amount of an intangible asset the Group uses a risk adjusted discounted cash flow model.
iv Available-for-sale assets When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale asset has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income statement.
The amount of the cumulative loss that is recognised in the income statement is the difference between the acquisition cost and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement.
An impairment loss in respect of an investment in an equity instrument classified as available-for-sale is not reversed through the income statement.
If the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in the income statement.
n Government grants Government grants towards staff re-training costs are recognised as income over the periods in which the related costs are incurred and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the income statement over the useful lives of the assets concerned.
o Employee benets i Dened contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with in the same manner as payments to defined contribution plans where the Groups obligations under the plans are equivalent to a defined contribution retirement benefit plan.
The funds of the schemes are independent of the Groups finances.
ii Dened benefit plan For the Groups defined benefit pension plan, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Allowance is made in the assessment of the defined benefit obligation for future costs of administering the plan.
The assumptions used to determine the valuation are shown in note 29.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised outside the income statement and presented in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits have already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation, reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
The retirement benefit obligation includes an allowance for future administrative costs of running the scheme.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Assets of the pension plan are held separately from the Groups assets.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:35 Page 73 73 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 2 Accounting policies continued iii Share-based payments In accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS2 Share-based Payments has been applied to all share-based grants made to employees after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as of 1 January 2005.
The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company, subject to certain criteria.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an expense of employment in the income statement with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at the date of grant and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using a binomial lattice model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense in any year is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest.
However if share options fail to vest due to share prices not achieving the designated performance threshold for vesting, no such adjustment takes place.
p Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
A charge for reorganisation costs is taken to the income statement when the Group has approved a detailed and formal reorganisation plan, and the reorganisation has either commenced or the Group has a constructive obligation, for example having made an announcement publicly to the employee or the Group as a whole.
q Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
r Revenue recognition Revenue represents amounts received or receivable in respect of the sale of marketed products to customers during the year, net of trade discounts given and value added tax, and in respect of royalty arrangements.
A description of the various elements of revenue and the associated accounting policies is given below: i Marketed products The Group recognises revenue for marketed product sales when each condition of IAS18, paragraph 14, is wholly-satisfied.
Where sales arrangements specify a second element of revenue contingent upon a specified event, this revenue is not recognised until this event has occurred and it is certain that the economic benefit triggered by this event will flow to the Group.
In cases where product is sold to a customer with a right of replacement, the Group views the transaction as a multi-element arrangement and a portion of the value from the sale is deferred and allocated to the replacement right based on the fair value of the replacement right.
Revenue is recognised net of any trade discounts that may be given from time-to-time.
ii Royalties Revenues from the Groups licensed programmes are generated following the grant of a licence to a third party to undertake additional development and commercialisation of a research and development programme or other intellectual property rights.
In addition to an upfront payment, BTG may be entitled to additional revenues such as milestone payments or royalties on revenues generated by the licensee.
Revenues associated with royalty arrangements may in turn be linked to additional obligations on BTG.
These revenues are accounted for in line with IAS18 as follows: 7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:35 Page 74 74 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued iii Upfront and milestone payments Non-refundable upfront and milestone payments are recognised as the earnings process is completed.
This may result in full recognition in the year in which the income is received.
However, where the Group has ongoing performance obligations, such as the delivery of products or services, upfront payments are deferred over the period in which these obligations are satisfied.
Associated costs of performance obligations are expensed in the period to which they relate.
In determining the performance obligations under the contract, consideration is given as to whether elements of the obligations meet the criteria for separate accounting.
The Group applies the substantive milestone method in accounting for subsequent milestone payments.
Milestone payments that are considered substantive are recognised into income in the year in which they are received.
Milestones that do not satisfy the criteria to be considered as substantive are amortised over the remaining period in which the Group expects to fulfil its performance obligations under the agreement.
The Group considers the following when assessing whether a milestone is considered substantive: Are the milestone payments non-refundable?
Does the achievement of the milestone involve a degree of risk that was not reasonably assured at the inception of the arrangement?
Is substantive effort involved in achieving the milestone?
Is the amount of the milestone payment reasonable in relation to the effort expended or the risk associated with the achievement of the milestone?
How does the time that passes between the payments compare to the effort required to reach the milestone?
iv Outlicensed product royalties Royalty income is generated by sales of products incorporating the Groups proprietary technology.
Royalty revenues are recognised once the amounts due can be reliably estimated based on the sale of underlying products and recoverability is assured.
Where there is insufficient historical data on sales and returns to fulfil these requirements, for example in the case of a new product, the royalty revenue will not be recognised until the Group can reliably estimate the underlying sales.
v Sales assignments of IPR Outright sales or assignments of IPR are treated as disposals of non-current assets.
s Research and development Research and development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Expenditure incurred on development projects relating to the design and testing of new or improved products is recognised as intangible assets when it is probable that the project will generate future economic benefit, considering factors including its commercial and technological feasibility, status of regulatory approval, and the ability to measure costs reliably.
Other development expenditures are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development expenditure previously recognised as an expense is not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
Development expenditure that has a finite useful life and which has been capitalised is amortised from the commencement of the commercial production of the product on a straight-line basis over the period of its expected benefit.
No development expenditure has been capitalised in either the current or prior year.
Property, plant and equipment used for research and development is depreciated in accordance with the Groups policy and the cost is included within Research and development in the income statement.
t Cost of sales Cost of sales includes the direct costs incurred in manufacturing and bringing products to sale in the market and revenue sharing costs.
Revenue sharing costs represent amounts due under royalty arrangements to licensors or assignees of technology upon recognition by the Group of amounts due from a licensee.
They are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the individual agreements relating to the relevant technology, in line with revenue recognition.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:35 Page 75 75 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 2 Accounting policies continued u Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Such assets are depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the length of the lease.
Assets purchased under hire purchase agreements are accounted for similarly, except that these assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease within the appropriate functional expenditure heading.
v Financial income Net financial income comprises interest income less interest payable during the year, calculated using the effective interest rate method, and fair value adjustments relating to foreign exchange forward contracts.
w Income tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, where it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying value of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
x BTG Employee Share Trust Included within the Groups financial results are those of the BTG Employee Share Trust, the costs of which are expensed within the financial statements of the Trust as incurred.
In the Company accounts the cost of BTG shares held by the Trust is deducted from shareholders funds.
y Financial guarantees Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contracts as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:35 Page 76 76 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Critical accounting judgements In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, described in note 2, management and the Audit Committee discussed and agreed the selection, application and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and the estimates used in the preparation of the accounts.
Revenue recognition As described in note 2, it is the Groups policy to recognise non-refundable upfront payments over the period in which any performance obligations are satisfied.
In December 2008, the Group acquired Protherics PLC which had received 16,300,000 from AstraZeneca UK Ltd in a Patent and Know How Licence Agreement for CytoFab.
The Group considers that its obligations under the licence agreement consist of the licence, provision of development services, regulatory support and steering committee participation.
The Group considers that the development services and the regulatory support it can supply will cease with the approval of CytoFab by the FDA and while the steering committee continues to operate after product approval by the FDA, the Group has received confirmation that its participation after this date would become voluntary.
Based on the clinical development plan to be undertaken by AstraZeneca, the Group currently estimates that its performance under the agreement will be completed over the period to 31 December 2014 and, therefore, is recognising the 16,300,000 on a straight-line basis, over the estimated performance period.
In determining the revenue recognition period, management considered the detailed criteria for the recognition of revenue per IAS18, Revenue, and is satisfied that all requirements have been met by the Group.
Acquisitions Judgements have been made in respect of the identification of intangible assets made on acquisitions based on pre-acquisition forecasts, analysis and negotiations.
In addition to the judgements and estimates made in establishing the intangible assets acquired and their value, in certain instances these assets are in development and are only amortised once the development phase has been completed, although these assets are subjected to impairment review in accordance with the accounting policy described in note 2 m. Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles Determining whether goodwill and other intangibles are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cashgenerating units to which goodwill or other intangible assets have been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
There is a risk of a material adverse impact on the income statement should an impairment adjustment be required to be reflected in the financial statements.
See note 2 m for further details.
Fair value of listed and unlisted investments Note 20 explains the basis for estimating the fair value of listed and unlisted investments.
Pension assumptions Note 29 details the key actuarial assumptions used to establish the pension funding position.
These are the best estimates chosen based on historic experience and future expectations.
Should the discount rate used to establish scheme liabilities or the long-term expected rate of return on investment vary significantly then the pension fund valuation would be impacted.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:35 Page 77 77 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 4 Operating segments The Group has two operating segments see note 1.
Under IAS14, the Group previously reported its results within two operating segments, being Life Sciences and Technology Commercialisation.
Following the acquisition of Protherics PLC in December 2008 and the subsequent reorganisation of the management of the Group during the current financial year, these segments were no longer deemed representative of the way in which the Group manages its operations.
There are no inter-segment transactions that are required to be eliminated on consolidation.
Year ended 31 March 2010 Year ended 31 March 2009 Marketed Marketed products Royalties Total products Royalties Total m m m m m m Revenue 34.3 64.2 98.5 13.4 71.4 84.8 Cost of sales 15.2 17.6 32.8 8.8 28.3 37.1 Gross profit 19.1 46.6 65.7 4.6 43.1 47.7 Operating expenses: Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 9.1 3.0 Foreign exchange losses 4.0 0.9 Other 25.3 19.7 Total operating expenses 38.4 23.6 Research and development 27.0 21.6 Profit on disposal of investments and intangible assets 1.1 2.6 Reorganisation costs 0.7 10.9 Amounts written off investments 3.4 Operating profit loss 2.1 9.2 Financial income 7.1 2.9 Financial expense 0.1 5.0 Profit loss before tax 9.1 11.3 Tax 2.2 1.8 Profit loss for the period 11.3 13.1 Unallocated assets 311.0 329.4 Includes a release of 0.3m 2009: 2.3m within marketed products representing the reversal of a fair value uplift of inventory purchased on acquisition of Protherics PLC on 4 December 2008, recognised through the income statement when the product was sold.
Geographical revenue analysis Geographical analysis of revenue, based on the geographical location of customers: Year ended Year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m US 82.9 69.0 UK 8.3 9.9 Europe excluding UK 5.9 3.3 Other regions 1.4 2.6 98.5 84.8 7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:35 Page 78 78 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Operating segments continued Major customers Products that utilise the Groups Intellectual Property Rights are sold by licensees.
Royalty income is derived from over 70 licences.
One licence individually generated royalty income in excess of 10% of Group revenue: being 26.6m 2009: 2 licensees generated 24.7m and 9.3m of revenue respectively, each representing more than 10% of Group revenue.
The Groups marketed products are sold through a distribution agreement with one distributor in the US.
Revenues in the period generated from that distribution agreement of 27.9m represent more than 10% of Group revenue 2009: 11.3m.
5 Research and development expenses Year ended Year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Expenditure on internal development programmes 26.7 21.2 Share of results of research associates 0.3 0.4 27.0 21.6 6 Profit on disposal of intangible assets and investments Year ended Year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Profit on disposal of patents 1.1 1.
1 Profit on disposal of investments 1.5 1.1 2.6 Profit is shown net of 0.4m 2009: 1.1m to be shared with the inventive source.
Loss relief has absorbed the tax due in respect of the profit on disposals.
7 Reorganisation costs Year ended Year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m BTG plc and Protherics PLC reorganisation costs 0.7 10.9 The Group considers reorganisation costs to be those resulting from decisions to rationalise both operating sites and business operations.
Following the acquisition of Protherics on 4 December 2008, the Group undertook a restructuring to integrate and align the two businesses.
The principal costs incurred relate to redundancy, property costs associated with onerous leases and impairment of assets made redundant as part of the restructuring.
The majority of costs have been paid, however commitments on onerous leases extend for a further three years note 32.
The credit to the income statement in the year ended 31 March 2010 represents the release of 1.5m of lease costs previously provided for following the completion of successful negotiations with the landlords of two of the Groups leased properties.
This has allowed the Group to exit from the lease commitments below the amount originally provided.
This is offset by other reorganisation costs incurred in the period.
8 Amounts written off investments Year ended Year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Amount written off investments 3.4 7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:35 Page 79 79 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 9 Operating profit loss Year ended 31 March 2010 Year ended 31 March 2009 Existing Continuing Existing Continuing operations Acquisitions operations operations Acquisitions operations m m m m m m Revenue 98.5 98.5 71.4 13.4 84.8 Cost of sales 32.8 32.8 28.3 8.8 37.1 Gross profit 65.7 65.7 43.1 4.6 47.7 Operating expenses 38.4 38.4 18.2 5.4 23.6 Research and development 27.0 27.0 15.0 6.6 21.6 Profit on disposal of assets and investments 1.
1 2.6 2.6 Reorganisation costs 0.7 0.7 10.9 10.9 Amounts written off associates and investments 3.4 3.4 Operating profit loss 2.1 2.1 9.1 18.3 9.2 In accordance with IFRS3, Business Combinations, the inventory acquired upon the acquisition of Protherics was adjusted to fair value to reflect the profit earned based on the stage of manufacture at 4 December 2008, being the date of acquisition see note 38.
The total fair value adjustment reflected in the acquired assets and liabilities amounted to 2.6m.
In the year ended 31 March 2009, 2.3m of the fair value adjustment was incorporated within the cost of sales as the inventory was sold to customers, with the balance of 0.3m being incorporated within cost of sales in the year ended 31 March 2010.
Operating profit has been arrived at after charging crediting : Year ended Year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Depreciation and other amounts written off property, plant and equipment see note 18 2.5 1.5 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets see note 17 9.9 6.2 Amounts written off investments note 8 3.4 Net foreign exchange losses 4.0 0.9 Research and development expenses see note 5 27.0 21.6 Staff costs see note 10 19.5 17.8 Operating lease rentals payable on property 1.6 1.8 Operating lease rentals receivable on property 0.3 2.0 Reorganisation costs including release of onerous lease provision see note 7 0.7 10.9 The analysis of the auditors remuneration is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 000 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys annual consolidated accounts: 85 100 The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 155 172 Other services pursuant to legislation 37 29 Tax services 54 48 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates 131 395 Other services 110 29 Fees in respect of the audit of the Groups pension funds 24 16 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for non-audit services provided to the Company are not required to be disclosed separately because the consolidated financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 44 and 45 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditor.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:35 Page 80 80 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10 Staff costs Staff costs including directors emoluments and reorganisation costs Year ended Year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Salaries 13.9 13.1 Social security costs 1.8 1.4 Defined contribution pension costs 1.6 0.8 Defined benefit pension costs 1.1 1.2 Equity-settled transactions 1.1 1.3 19.5 17.8 Staff costs in the year ended 31 March 2009 include those relating to Protherics PLC for the period from acquisition to the end of the financial year, being approximately four months.
Staff costs in the year ended 31 March 2010 include a full 12 months costs in respect of the same.
Key management personnel are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 58.
In addition to the disclosures in the Remuneration Report, the charge to income in respect of equitysettled transactions of key management personnel, in accordance with IFRS2, was 0.5m 2009: 0.9m.
The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year including executive directors, analysed by category, was as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Number Number Management 39 1 2 Research and production 194 98 Administration and business support 59 45 292 155 Staff numbers in the year ended 31 March 2009 include those relating to Protherics PLC for the period from acquisition to the end of the financial year, being approximately four months.
Staff numbers in the year ended 31 March 2010 include a full 12 months costs in respect of the same.
11 Financial income Year ended Year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Interest receivable on money-market and bank deposits 0.6 2.9 Fair value changes of foreign exchange forward contracts 6.5 Financial income 7.1 2.9 12 Financial expense Year ended Year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Interest payable on finance lease and hire purchase borrowings 0.1 0.1 Fair value changes of foreign exchange forward contracts 4.9 Financial expense 0.1 5.0 7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:35 Page 81 81 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13 Tax An analysis of the tax charge for the year, all relating to current operations, is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Current tax UK corporation tax credit charge 0.6 2.3 Overseas tax on royalties 0.1 0.2 Adjustments in respect of prior years: UK income tax 0.5 US income tax 0.4 Total current taxation 1.0 2.9 Deferred taxation Decrease increase in estimate of recoverable deferred tax asset 0.2 0.1 Release of deferred tax liability 1.4 1.0 2.2 1.8 Reconciliation of the effective tax rate Year ended Year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Profit before tax 9.1 11.3 Tax using UK corporation tax rate of 28% 2009: 28% 2.5 3.2 Foreign tax payable 0.2 Timing differences 3.5 0.2 Taxable income eliminated on consolidation 6.2 Non-deductible expenses 1.7 Additional tax credit for research and development expenditure incurred 0.5 0.1 Adjustments to tax in respect of prior years 0.6 0.4 Deferred tax assets not recognised 4.1 Estimated utilised losses 5.4 3.6 2.2 1.8 At 31 March 2010 the Group has recognised a 0.5m UK corporation tax receivable which arises on overpaid tax in the prior year.
For the year ended 31 March 2009 a receivable of 0.4m was recognised in respect of research and development tax credits receivable.
This amount was received during the year ended 31 March 2010.
At 31 March 2010 the Groups indicative tax computations indicate no current tax payable in respect of the results for that financial year 2009: 2.5m payable.
In addition, at 31 March 2009 the Group recognised 0.8m of overseas tax payable on royalty income.
This amount was paid during the year ended 31 March 2010.
Deferred taxation An analysis of amounts included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in respect of income taxes is shown below: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Current assets UK Corporation Tax receivable 0.5 0.4 Current liabilities UK Corporation Tax payable 2.5 Overseas tax payable on royalties 0.8 3.3 7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:35 Page 82 82 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13 Tax continued The movements in the deferred tax asset and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS12, Income Taxes during the year are as shown below.
The deferred tax asset and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balance net.
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 30% 2009: 30%.
The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below: Deferred tax asset Year ended Year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Deferred tax asset recognised at 1 April 0.7 Acquisitions note 38 0.5 Income statement debit credit 0.2 0.1 Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax asset recognised at 31 March 0.6 0.7 The deferred tax asset, which relates to trading losses incurred in Australia, has been recognised in the financial statements following the development of the Groups products in prior years and the directors are of the opinion, based on recent and forecast trading, that the level of profits in Australia in the forthcoming years will lead to the realisation of this asset.
In addition to the losses on which the deferred tax asset has been recognised, the Group has additional taxable losses and other timing differences in the United Kingdom and the United States which arose as a result of the research and development incurred during the start-up of the Groups activities.
These losses, which total 193.8m, are available for offset against future taxable profits in these territories.
Tax losses of 181.1m in the United Kingdom can be carried forward indefinitely.
Tax losses of 12.5m in the United States can be carried forward for 20 years.
The first year in which losses will expire if remaining unutilised is 2023.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these losses and other temporary differences of 35.6m since there is uncertainty as to how quickly such losses and temporary differences would be utilised and consequently the recoverability of the deferred tax asset is uncertain.
The total amount of deferred tax asset not recognised, measured at 28% is approximately: Year ended Year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Tax losses 54.2 43.8 Deductible temporary differences 10.0 4.7 64.2 48.5 Deferred tax liability Year ended Year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m At 1 April 35.2 Acquisitions note 38 36.2 Released during the period 2.8 1.0 Decrease in tax losses available for offset 1.4 Exchange differences 0.4 At 31 March 33.4 35.2 The deferred tax liability of 33.4m 2009: 35.2m arises as a result of the acquisition of Protherics PLC note 38.
Amounts released during the period of 2.8m 2009: 1.0m represent the decrease of the deferred tax liability in line with amortisation charged against the carrying values of the associated assets.
The decrease in tax losses available for offset of 1.4m 2009: nil represents the decrease of Group tax losses during the period that are therefore no longer available to offset the deferred tax liability.
No deferred tax has been recognised directly in equity.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:35 Page 83 83 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 14 Dividends The directors do not propose to declare a dividend for the year 2009: nil.
15 Earnings per share The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: Year ended Year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Profit loss for the financial year m 11.3 13.1 Profit loss per share p Basic and diluted 4.4 7.1 Number of shares m Weighted average number of shares basic 255.9 183.4 Effect of share options on issue 1.9 1.1 Weighted average number of shares diluted 257.8 184.5 The basic and diluted earnings per share from underlying earnings is based on the following data: Year ended Year ended 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Profit loss for the financial year m 11.3 13.1 Add back: Fair value adjustment on acquired inventory 0.3 2.3 Amortisation of acquired intangible fixed assets 7.7 2.0 Reorganisation costs 1.6 10.9 Underlying earnings 17.7 2.1 Profit per share p Basic and diluted 6.9 1.
1 Adjustments to profit are shown after taking into account the tax effect of such adjustments on the results as shown in the Consolidated Income Statement as follows: No tax adjustment is required on the fair value of acquired inventory The release of deferred tax liability of 1.4m 2009: 1.0m as shown in note 13 has been deducted from the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets of 9.1m as shown in note 17 A reorganisation cost credit of 0.7m in the Consolidated Income Statement has been increased by 0.9m tax effect, being the amount by which the Groups deferred tax charge would have been affected had there been no tax deduction available for reorganisation costs.
The Groups tax charge would have been the same in the prior year if there had been no reorganisation costs.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:35 Page 84 84 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16 Goodwill m At 1 April 2008 Additions 30.0 At 1 April 2009 30.0 Additions 0.3 At 31 March 2010 30.3 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 April 2008, 1 April 2009 and 31 March 2010 Net book value at 31 March 2010 30.3 Net book value at 1 April 2009 30.0 Net book value at 1 April 2008 Additions of 0.3m in the year ended 31 March 2010 arose on the issue of shares to former Protherics PLC share option holders in the period to 4 June 2009 note 30.
At 31 March 2009 there was no expectation that these share options would be exercised since the share price of the Group was such that all outstanding former Protherics PLC share options were in a loss-making position at that time.
Impairment review goodwill and intangible assets An impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill and unamortised intangible assets was conducted as at 31 March 2010.
Goodwill arose on the acquisition of Protherics PLC in December 2008 see note 38.
This has been allocated across the Groups cash-generating units, being its operating segments, in proportion with the anticipated benefits of that goodwill on the operating segment, having regard for the assets and liabilities acquired.
The carrying value of goodwill in relation to marketed products is 15.6m and in relation to royalties is 14.7m.
The impairment review required the estimation of the recoverable amount based on the value in use of the underlying cashgenerating unit.
Near-term projections are based on the Groups approved three-year plan.
Longer-term projections through to the end of an assets estimated useful economic life are included due to the long-term nature of pharmaceutical product development and product life cycles.
The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flows were based include market share and gross margin for the marketed products, individual probability-adjusted cash flow models for all in-process research and development and an assessment of the net present value of future net royalty income for licensed patents.
Cash flow projections for all assets were included for a period equal to the estimated useful economic life of the assets.
No terminal values were applied.
All cash flows were discounted back to present value using a pre-tax discount rate of between 7% 2009: 7% for net royalty income and 24% 2009: 24% for in-process research and development which takes into account the individual risk characteristics of each particular asset and related income stream.
For developed technology, near-term sales projections are based on past experience, adjusting for expected changes in future conditions, including those anticipated as a result of our knowledge of competitor activity and our assessment of future changes in the pharmaceutical industry.
Long-term sales projections assume near-term growth of 2% for the first eight years and then a 20% per annum reduction thereafter through to the end of the assets estimated useful life.
For in-process research and development the key assumptions are the chance of product launch, market share and overall market size.
Industry average statistics are used to assess the chance of product launch, taking into account the stage of development of the asset, the therapeutic area targeted and any known specific characteristics of the asset.
Market share and overall market size are assessed by reference to independent industry market reports.
In assessing whether there has been an impairment, the net present value of future cash flows is compared to the carrying value in the accounts.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:35 Page 85 85 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17 Intangible assets In-process Developed Contractual research and Computer technology relationships development software Patents Total m m m m m m Group Cost At 1 April 2008 0.5 14.7 15.2 Additions 1.0 1.0 Acquired with Protherics 120.3 36.1 7.7 164.1 Disposals 1.7 1.7 Currency movements 0.7 0.7 At 1 April 2009 120.3 36.1 7.7 0.5 14.7 179.3 Additions 1.2 1.2 Disposals 0.5 2.8 3.3 Currency movements 2.9 0.9 0.1 3.9 At 31 March 2010 117.4 35.2 7.7 13.0 173.3 Amortisation At 1 April 2008 0.4 8.0 8.4 Provided during the year 1.6 1.4 0.1 1.8 4.9 Impairments 1.3 1.3 Writeback on disposals 1.6 1.6 Currency movements 0.5 0.5 At 1 April 2009 1.6 1.4 0.5 10.0 13.5 Provided during the year 4.5 3.8 0.8 9.1 Impairments 0.8 0.8 Writeback on disposals 0.5 2.5 3.0 Currency movements 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 At 31 March 2010 6.3 5.4 0.8 8.1 20.6 Net book value at 31 March 2010 111.1 29.8 6.9 4.9 152.7 Net book value at 1 April 2009 118.7 34.7 7.7 4.7 165.8 Net book value at 1 April 2008 0.1 6.7 6.8 Developed technology Developed technology relate to the antidote assets acquired in Protherics PLC comprising principally of the rights to CroFab and DigiFab.
The carrying value of individually significant assets within developed technology is: Remaining amortisation 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 period at m m 31 March 2010 CroFab 83.8 89.5 23.7 years DigiFab 27.1 28.9 23.7 years Contractual relationships Contractual relationships relate to contracts acquired in Protherics PLC.
The carrying value and remaining amortisation period of individually significant contracts is: Remaining amortisation 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 period at m m 31 March 2010 Licence agreement with AstraZeneca for CytoFab 28.6 31.6 12.7 years 7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 86 86 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18 Property, plant and equipment Plant and Freehold machinery, Assets in Leasehold land and furniture and the course of improvements buildings equipment construction Total m m m m m Group Cost or valuation At 1 April 2008 1.3 4.1 7.5 12.9 Additions 0.6 0.1 0.8 1.5 Acquired with Protherics 1.6 1.0 9.1 11.7 Disposals 1.2 2.1 7.5 10.8 Currency movements 0.2 0.3 0.5 At 1 April 2009 2.5 1.
1 Net book value at 1 April 2008 0.8 0.8 The net book value of plant and machinery, furniture and equipment includes 2.3m 2009: 3.0m in respect of assets held under finance lease and hire purchase agreements.
Depreciation for the year on those assets was 0.3m 2009: 0.2m.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 87 87 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 Investments in associates Investments which represent a holding greater than 20% are as follows: Class of 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 share Country % held % held Mesophotonics Ltd Preferred UK 29.3 29.3 Senexis Ltd Preferred UK 48.0 48.0 The Groups share of post-acquisition total recognised losses in the above associates for the year ended 31 March 2010 was 0.3m 2009: 0.4m.
Each of these companies is engaged in research and development activities.
2010 2009 m m At 1 April 0.3 0.7 Share of losses 0.3 0.4 At 31 March 0.3 Summary financial information in respect of the Groups investments held as associates as at 31 March in each year under review is set out below: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Total assets 0.3 0.5 Total liabilities 0.1 0.2 Net assets 0.2 0.3 Revenues Losses for the year 0.8 0.9 20 Other investments 2010 2009 m m At 1 April 3.2 5.8 Additions 0.5 0.6 Fair value movements 0.5 Impairment charge 3.4 Disposals and loan repayments 1.0 Currency movements 0.7 At 31 March 3.7 3.2 Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are available-for-sale that are recorded at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of unlisted investments is estimated to be the valuation following the latest round of equity funding.
In the absence of specific market data the Group determines that cost is equal to fair value.
Where the fair value of an available-for-sale asset is impaired, the impairment charge is recognised in the income statement together with any amounts recycled from the fair value reserve see note 24.
These impairments initially arise from the prolonged or significant decline in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost, subsequent to which any further decline in fair value is immediately taken to the income statement.
No amounts 2009: 0.5m have been recycled from the fair value reserve on the sale or impairment of investments.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 88 88 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21 Inventories 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Raw materials and consumables 2.7 5.0 Work in progress 6.6 4.1 Finished goods 0.3 1.4 9.6 10.5 The carrying value of inventory at 31 March 2009 includes 0.3m uplift in respect of fair value adjustments recognised on the acquisition of Protherics PLC note 38.
There is no such uplift in the carrying value at 31 March 2010.
During the period a write off of 0.3m 2009: nil was recognised through cost of sales.
22 Trade and other receivables 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Due within one year Investment in associates classified as held for sale 0.1 0.1 Revenues receivable, net of provisions 15.5 20.3 Other debtors 2.1 1.5 Prepayments and accrued income 2.7 7.3 20.4 29.2 Managing credit risk Revenues receivable, net of provisions represents accrued royalty income for the period to 31 March 2010 and certain other amounts receivable under licence agreements.
The ageing of these amounts was as follows: 2010 2010 2009 2009 Gross Provision Gross Provision m m m m Not past due 14.8 17.3 0 to 30 days 0.2 2.7 31 to 90 days 0.2 0.1 90 days 1.2 0.9 0.6 0.4 Total 16.4 0.9 20.7 0.4 Provisions for bad debts of 0.9m 31 March 2009: 0.4m have been made to write down the value of doubtful receivables to estimated recoverable amounts.
The charge to income for the year to 31 March 2010 in respect of provisions for bad debts was 0.5m 2009: nil Investment in associates classied as held for sale Mesophotonics Ltd is in a Members Voluntary Liquidation MVL.
BTG has estimated the fair value of its investment in Mesophotonics to be 0.1m at 31 March 2010 based on the expectation of likely returns from the MVL.
Summary financial information in respect of the Groups investments accounted for as investments in associates held for sale see note 19 is set out below: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Total assets 0.1 0.1 Total liabilities Net assets 0.1 0.1 Revenues Losses of associate for the year BTG recognised no loss for the year ended 31 March 2010 2009: nil.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 89 89 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23 Cash and cash equivalents 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Bank balances 73.0 69.7 Call deposits 9.6 8.5 Cash and cash equivalents in statement of cash flows 82.6 78.2 24 Equity Share Share Merger Other Retained capital premium reserve reserves earnings Total equity m m m m m m At 1 April 2008 15.1 187.0 1.4 145.5 55.2 Foreign exchange translation differences 0.8 0.8 Actuarial gain on pension liabilities 0.8 0.8 Change in the fair value of equity securities available-for-sale net 0.5 0.5 Loss for the year 13.1 13.1 Total comprehensive income 1.3 12.3 11.0 Movement in shares held by Trust 0.1 0.1 Share-based payments 1.3 1.3 Issued on acquisition of Protherics note 38 10.4 156.5 166.9 Other share capital issued 0.3 0.3 At 1 April 2009 25.5 187.3 156.5 0.1 156.6 212.6 Foreign exchange translation differences 0.8 0.8 Actuarial loss on pension liabilities 12.0 12.0 Profit for the year 11.3 11.3 Total comprehensive income 0.8 0.7 1.5 Movement in shares held by Trust 0.3 0.3 Share-based payments 1.1 1.
1 Issued on acquisition of Protherics note 38 0.2 1.6 1.8 Other share capital issued 0.1 0.8 0.9 At 31 March 2010 25.8 188.1 158.1 0.9 155.9 215.2 7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 90 90 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24 Equity continued Other reserves are analysed as follows: Translation Fair value Total other reserve reserve reserves m m m At 1 April 2008 1.1 0.3 1.4 Total recognised income and expense 0.8 0.5 1.3 At 1 April 2009 0.3 0.2 0.1 Total recognised income and expense 0.8 0.8 At 31 March 2010 1.1 0.2 0.9 The merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under s612 and s613 of the Companies Act 2006.
The balance on the merger reserve has arisen through the acquisition of Protherics PLC on 4 December 2008 note 38 and includes directly attributable costs of issuing the shares of 0.4m.
During the year 4,443,333 Protherics share options were exercised by current and former employees of the Protherics Group.
These shares were exchanged in the ratio 0.291 BTG shares for each Protherics share, resulting in the issue of 1,293,008 BTG shares.
The balance of 1,006,668 share options were exercised under BTG share option schemes.
All shares rank pari passu in all respects with existing ordinary shares.
Share options and warrants Details of outstanding share options are set out in note 30.
At 31 March 2010, there were unexercised warrants for 100,000 ordinary shares in Enact Pharma Limited, a subsidiary of Protherics which was acquired by the Company in December 2008.
These warrants expire on 9 July 2012 and are exercisable at 30p per ordinary share of Enact Pharma Limited.
Should these be exercised, the Company is entitled to repurchase these shares for consideration of 19,846 ordinary shares in BTG plc which creates an equivalent exercise price of 151.2p per ordinary BTG share.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 91 91 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25 Trade and other payables 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Amounts falling due within one year Trade payables 7.4 8.8 Accruals and deferred income 33.0 42.3 Other creditors 0.4 0.9 40.8 52.0 Amounts falling due after more than one year Accruals and deferred income 8.4 8.4 Other creditors 0.1 8.5 8.4 26 Derivative financial instruments 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Contracts with negative fair values: Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.8 7.3 Derivative instrument liabilities 0.8 7.3 The Group utilises foreign currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows.
At 31 March 2010 the Group had forward contracts to sell US$41m in the period to February 2011 at rates in the range 1:$1.49 to 1:$1.61.
The fair value of these derivative financial instruments was marked to market at 31 March 2010 at 0.8m.
At 31 March 2009 the Group had forward contracts to sell US$56m in the period to February 2010 at rates in the range 1:$1.98 to 1:$1.44.
The fair value of these derivative financial instruments was marked to market at 31 March 2009 at 7.3m.
The fair value gain loss for the year associated with these forward contracts was included within Financial Income 2009: Financial Expense.
A 5% weakening of the US$ as at 31 March 2010, all other variables being unchanged, would result in an additional 1.3m gain within Financial Income in the Income Statement and an associated fair value asset of 0.5m within Derivative instruments within Current Assets.
A 5% strengthening of the US$ would result in a 1.4m reduction within Financial Income and an increased in Derivative Instruments to 2.2m within Current Liabilities.
27 Borrowings 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Bank loans-secured 0.2 The bank loan at 31 March 2009 was denominated in US$ with an effective interest rate of 5.625%.
The loan was taken out by Protherics Inc. in August 2004.
Repayments commenced in September 2004 and continued until August 2009 when substantially all of the principal received on inception became repayable.
The loan is now fully repaid.
The Group had no undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 March 2010 2009: nil.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 92 92 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28 Finance leases Present value of Minimum lease payments minimum lease payments 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 0.8 0.9 0.7 0.8 In the second to fifth years inclusive 0.6 1.4 0.6 1.3 1.4 2.3 1.3 2.1 Less: future finance charges 0.1 0.2 Present value of lease obligations 1.3 2.1 1.3 2.1 Less: Amounts due for settlement within one year shown within current liabilities 0.7 0.8 0.7 0.8 Amount due for settlement after one year 0.6 1.3 0.6 1.3 The average lease term on inception is three to five years with an option to purchase equipment for a nominal amount at the conclusion of the lease agreement.
For the year ended 31 March 2010, the average effective borrowing rate for the Group was 8.3% 2009: 7.1%.
Interest rates are fixed at the contract date.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximates to their carrying amount.
The Groups lease obligations are denominated in sterling.
The obligations under hire purchase agreements for the Group are secured by a charge over the leased assets.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 93 93 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29 Retirement benefit plans Dened benefit plan For eligible UK employees the Group operates a funded pension plan providing benefits based on final pensionable emoluments.
The plan was closed to new entrants as of 1 June 2004.
The assets of the plan are held in a separate trustee administered fund.
The plan generally raises pensions in line with price inflation, and these increases are reflected in the measurement of the obligation.
The last formal actuarial valuation was conducted as at 31 March 2007 by David Jones, Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
Its results have been updated to the accounting date by an independent qualified actuary in accordance with IAS19.
The next formal valuation will be conducted as at 31 March 2010.
As a result of the 31 March 2007 actuarial valuation, the Group agreed with the pension fund trustees to make special contributions to the fund.
In total, 17.4m was committed over a period of five years.
Of this, 4.2m was paid in 2008 09, 3.3m was paid in 2009 10 and 3.3m will be paid in each of the next three financial years.
The estimated total amount of contributions to be paid to the plan during 2010 11, including the special contributions of 3.3m, is 3.8m 2010 actual: 3.9m.
The expected rate of return on assets for the financial year ending 31st March 2010 was 5.6% pa 2009: 5.5% pa.
This rate is derived by taking the weighted average of the long-term expected rate of return on each of the asset classes that the plan was invested in at 31st March 2010, based on the plans long-term investment strategy at that date.
The following table sets out the key IAS19 assumptions used for the plan: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 Retail price inflation 3.9% pa 3.2% pa 3.7% pa Discount rate 5.5% pa 6.9% pa 6.5% pa Pension increases in deferment 3.9% pa 3.2% pa 3.7% pa Pension increases in payment RPI 3.9% pa 3.2% pa 3.7% pa Pension increases in payment 2.5% LPI 2.4% pa 2.2% pa 2.5% pa General salary increases 3.9% pa 4.2% pa 4.7% pa Life expectancy at age 60 of a male age 60 at the accounting date 88.2 88.1 87.4 Life expectancy at age 60 of a male age 40 at the accounting date 90.4 90.3 88.8 The mortality assumptions used as at 31 March 2010 are based on 90% of the rates in the new PNA00 mortality tables with medium cohort improvement allowance, subject to a minimum improvement in each future year of projection of 1% pa 2009: same assumptions.
The amount included in the statement of financial position arising from the Groups obligations in respect of the plan is as follows: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 98.3 74.9 81.8 Fair value of scheme assets 89.1 74.9 76.9 Net liability recognised in the statement of financial position 9.2 4.9 This amount is presented in the statement of financial position within non-current liabilities.
The amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the defined benefit scheme are as follows: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Groups part of current service cost 0.2 0.3 Interest cost 5.0 5.2 Expected return on plan assets 4.1 4.3 1.1 1.2 The cost has been included in Operating expenses: other.
The actual return on the plans assets over the year was a gain of 14.5m 2009: a loss of 2.9m.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 94 94 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29 Retirement benefit plans continued The current allocation of the plans assets is as follows: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 % % % Equity instruments 19 25 29 Diversified growth funds 14 Debt instruments 66 70 68 Cash net current assets 1 5 3 100 100 100 A reconciliation of the present value of the defined benefit obligation is as follows: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 April 74.9 81.8 Employer part of current service cost 0.2 0.3 Interest cost 5.0 5.2 Contributions from plan members 0.1 0.1 Actuarial losses gains on scheme liabilities 22.4 8.0 Other finance expenses 0.3 Benefits paid 4.3 4.2 Defined benefit obligation at 31 March 98.3 74.9 A reconciliation of the fair value of the plan assets is as follows: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Fair value of plan assets at 1 April 74.9 76.9 Expected return on plan assets 4.1 4.3 Actuarial gains losses on scheme assets 10.4 7.2 Contributions by the employer 3.9 5.0 Contributions by plan members 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 4.3 4.2 Fair value of plan assets at 31 March 89.1 74.9 The amount recognised outside profit or loss in other comprehensive income for 2010 is an actuarial loss of 12.0m 2009: actuarial gain of 0.8m.
The cumulative amount recognised outside profit or loss as at 31 March 2010 is a loss of 11.7m.
The history of experience adjustment is as follows: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 31 March 2006 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 98.3 74.9 81.8 80.6 82.6 Fair value of plan assets 89.1 74.9 76.9 74.9 73.1 Deficit in the scheme 9.2 4.9 5.7 9.5 Experience adjustments on plan assets Amount of loss gain m 10.4 7.4 0.4 1.2 4.7 Percentage of plan assets % 12 10 2 6 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities Amount of gain losses m 2.5 6.3 6.3 Percentage of plan liabilities % 3 8 8 7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 95 95 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29 Retirement benefit plans continued Dened contribution plans The Group offers defined contribution pension plans both for its UK, US and Australian employees.
The total income statement charge in relation to these plans was 1.6m 2009: 0.8m.
In the UK, the Group contributes between 3% and 10% of base salary up to the HMRC Cap, depending on seniority and levels of employee contribution to a defined contribution pension plan open to all employees not in the defined benefit pension plan.
This plan replaces all previously operated defined contribution pension plans for UK employees.
Eligible employees of the Groups overseas subsidiaries are members of externally operated defined contribution plans.
The only obligation of the Group with respect to these plans is to make the specified contributions.
30 Share-based payments Share options The Group makes awards under an equity-settled share option plan that entitles employees to purchase shares in the Company.
In accordance with the rules of the plan, options are granted at the market price of the shares on the date of grant with a vesting period of generally three years.
They may only be exercised upon the attainment of certain performance criteria.
If the performance criteria are not met by the date specified at the time of grant, the options do not vest and will lapse.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire.
Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they are considered to be a good leaver.
In this case their options remain exercisable for a limited period of time.
For further details of current awards, see the Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 58.
Option pricing For the purposes of valuing options to arrive at the share-based compensation charge, a binomial lattice option pricing model has been used.
The assumptions used in the model are as follows: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Risk-free interest rate 2.0% to 5.8% 3.7% to 5.8% Dividend yield Nil Nil Volatility 41% to 73% 40% to 85% Expected lives of options and awards granted under: Share option plan 5 years 5 years Sharesave plan 3.25 years 3.25 years Stock purchase plan 2.25 years 2.25 years Restricted share awards 2 to 3 years 2 to 3 years Performance share plan 2 to 3 years 3 years Deferred share bonus plan 3 years 3 years Weighted average fair value for share option plan grants in the year 58.9p Weighted average fair value for sharesave grants in the year 78.0p 79.8p Weighted average fair value for stock purchase plan grants in the year 61.7p 98.6p Weighted average fair value for restricted share awards in the year 121.2p Weighted average fair value for performance share awards in the year 50.9p 106.0p Weighted average fair value for deferred share bonus awards in the year 174.0p 121.2p The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options or restricted shares, adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly-available information.
Share options are granted under a service condition, a non-market condition and a market condition.
Service and non-market conditions are not taken into account in calculating the fair value measurement of the services received.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 96 96 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30 Share-based payments continued Performance shares are awarded under a service condition, a non-market condition and a market condition.
The latest share options and performance share awards have a market condition based on a TSR measure using the FTSE 250 companies excluding investment trusts, companies in the financial services sector banking, insurance, broking, fund management, etc.
and companies in the consumer discretionary sector non-food retail, media, leisure, gambling.
Earlier share options and performance shares used the techMARK All Share or FTSE SmallCap excluding Investment Trusts indices depending on the index chosen for the specific award.
If the Companys share price at least matches the performance of the relevant index over the vesting period, the market-based performance condition will be considered to have been achieved.
The fair value of an award of shares under the share option and performance share plans have been adjusted to take into account this market-based performance condition using a pricing model based on expectations about volatility and the correlation of share price returns in the relevant index and which incorporates into the valuation the interdependency between share price and index performance.
This adjustment increases the fair value relative to the share price at the date of grant.
See the Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 58 for further information.
Restricted shares are awarded to certain management employees under a service condition and a non-market performance condition.
There are no market conditions related to the restricted share awards.
Details of options and awards under the Groups share plans are shown in the tables below.
2010 2009 Number Weighted Number Weighted of share average of share average options exercise options exercise 000 price p 000 price p Share options Outstanding at 1 April 882 128.0 1,927 149.2 Granted during year 379 179.3 Lapsed during year 108 146.6 868 175.5 Exercised during year 556 127.8 177 124.6 Outstanding at 31 March 597 157.3 882 128.0 Exercisable at 31 March 218 119.0 368 106.3 Sharesave plan Outstanding at 1 April 202 106.7 226 105.4 Granted during year 217 146.7 48 129.2 Lapsed during year 30 1 1 4.1 38 106.6 Exercised during year 88 106.4 34 130.2 Outstanding at 31 March 301 134.9 202 106.7 Exercisable at 31 March Stock purchase plan Outstanding at 1 April 30 106.1 40 94.5 Granted during year 22 154.3 1 1 183.6 Lapsed during year 3 77.6 6 131.1 Exercised during year 19 77.6 15 123.5 Outstanding at 31 March 30 162.2 30 106.1 Exercisable at 31 March 7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 97 97 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 30 Share-based payments continued Options outstanding at 31 March 2010 Latest Weighted exercise date Number exercise year ended 000 price p 31 March Share options granted in year ended 31 March 2002 2 776.5 2012 2005 1 6 1 103.4 2015 2007 55 143.5 2017 2010 379 179.3 2020 597 157.3 Sharesave plan options granted in year ended 31 March 2008 57 93.7 2011 2009 32 129.2 2012 2010 212 146.7 2013 301 134.9 Stock purchase plan options granted in year ended 31 March 2009 8 183.6 2011 2010 22 154.3 2012 30 162.2 Restricted share awards The Company established a restricted share scheme for the purpose of making awards to selected members of senior management below Board level.
The vesting period is either two or three years.
Awards are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the awards vest, unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they are considered to be a good leaver: in which case their award is released following their departure.
For further details see the Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 58.
Movement in the number of restricted shares awarded is as follows: 2010 2009 Number of Number of share awards share awards 000 000 Outstanding at 1 April 240 210 Granted during year 70 Lapsed during year 40 Exercised during year 40 Outstanding at 31 March 200 240 Exercisable at 31 March 7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 98 98 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30 Share-based payments continued Performance share awards Following approval of the Performance Share Plan by shareholders at the 2006 AGM, the Company has made awards to the executive directors and other employees with a vesting period of two or three years.
Awards are forfeited if the director or other employee leaves the Group before the awards vest, unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they are considered to be a good leaver: in which case their award is released following their departure.
Movement in the number of performance share awards is as follows: 2010 2009 Number of Number of share awards share awards 000 000 Outstanding at 1 April 1,446 706 Granted during year 1,188 740 Lapsed during year 119 Exercised during year 544 Outstanding at 31 March 1,971 1,446 Exercisable at 31 March Options remaining in Protherics In addition to the options in BTG plc, at the point of acquisition, options remained outstanding in Protherics under its unapproved, approved and sharesave plans as well as certain individual options.
All options had vested at the point of acquisition and thus the Group has not experienced a share-based payment charge in respect of these options.
When these shares were exercised, the newly issued shares in Protherics were exchanged for shares in BTG plc at a ratio of 0.291 of a BTG plc ordinary share for each Protherics ordinary share.
The final date for exercise of these options was 4 June 2009 meaning that all share options of the former Protherics Group have now either been exercised or have lapsed.
Movement in the options during the year were as follows: BTG Ordinary shares at Protherics ordinary shares conversion ratio of 0.291 2010 2010 2010 2010 Number Weighted Number Weighted of share average of share average options exercise options exercise 000 price p 000 price p Unapproved options Outstanding at 1 April 5,434 41.2 1,581 141.5 Lapsed during year 991 58.7 288 201.7 Exercised during year 4,443 37.3 1,293 128.2 Outstanding and exercisable at 31 March Sharesave plan Outstanding at 1 April 762 50.9 222 174.9 Lapsed during year 762 50.9 222 174.9 Outstanding and exercisable at 31 March Individual options Outstanding at 1 April 95 76.4 28 262.4 Lapsed during year 95 76.4 28 262.4 Outstanding and exercisable at 31 March 7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 99 99 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31 BTG Employee Share Trust The Group includes an employee share trust, the BTG Employee Share Trust the Trust, which was established in Guernsey in 1992.
It holds shares for the general benefit of all employees who may eventually become legally entitled to them.
The Trust may distribute these shares to employees of the Group on the recommendation of the Company.
These distributions may be as a result of awards under the Restricted Share Scheme, the Performance Share Plan or the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
At 31 March 2010 the Trust has 200,000 shares set aside under the Restricted Share Scheme and 379,564 under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
32 Provisions 2010 2009 Leases Reorganisation Total Leases Reorganisation Total m m m m m m At 1 April 4.3 4.0 8.3 1.3 1.3 Provisions utilised during year 1.6 3.2 4.8 0.6 0.6 Provisions made during year 0.5 0.5 3.6 4.0 7.6 Provisions released during year 1.5 0.3 1.8 0.1 0.1 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.1 0.1 At 31 March 1.
1 0.7 1.8 4.3 4.0 8.3 Lease provisions relate to onerous leases and represent the net present value of future obligations and where relevant, not covered by income from tenants see note 2 m. The provision for reorganisation costs arose as a result of the Groups rationalisation activities following the acquisition of Protherics on 4 December 2008 note 38.
The provision principally comprises redundancy and other site closure costs.
33 Financial risk management objectives and policies Overview The Group has exposure to credit, liquidity and market risks from its use of financial instruments.
This note sets out the Groups key policies and processes for managing these risks.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a licensee fails to meet its contractual obligations or a customer fails to pay for goods and services received.
The Groups primary objective with respect to credit risk is to minimise the risk of default by licensees or customers.
A substantial element of the Groups revenue is derived from royalties which are only payable if a licensee is generating income from sales of licensed products.
In such instances the Groups exposure to credit risk is considered to be inherently relatively low, although it is influenced by the unique characteristics of individual licensees.
Approximately 49% of the Groups royalties are derived from one licensee who has held a licence for seven years.
The Groups policy is to provide against bad debts on a specific licence by licence basis.
The majority of the marketed product revenues are currently generated from sales to one customer in the US.
Management is constantly in communication with this customer and monitors both sales to and payments from this customer to minimise the credit risk exposure.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 100 100 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as they fall due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group has limited debt facilities in the form of assets held under finance leases but has substantial cash balances to fund its operations.
The Groups policy is to place surplus cash resources on short-term fixed interest deposits, to the extent that cash flow can be reasonably predicted.
Term deposits are denominated in UK sterling with institutions rated as A or higher by both Moodys and Standard & Poors.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings in financial instruments.
The Group has little exposure to interest rate risk other than that returns on short-term fixed interest deposits will vary with movements in underlying bank interest rates.
The Groups principal market risk exposure is to movements in foreign exchange rates.
Foreign currency risk The Group has several overseas subsidiary undertakings, the revenues and the expenses of which are denominated in local currencies being US dollars and Australian dollars.
As a result the Groups sterling income statement, balance sheet and cash flows may be affected by movements in sterling exchange rates with these currencies.
The Groups primary objective with respect to managing foreign exchange risk is to provide certainty over the value of future cash flows.
A significant element of the Groups revenue is denominated in US dollars with the remainder split between sterling, euros, yen and other currencies.
The majority of the Groups operating expenses are in sterling along with smaller elements in US dollars and Australian dollars.
Where possible, anticipated foreign currency operating expenses are matched to foreign currency revenues.
The excess exposure over and above this natural hedge, to the extent that cash flows are predictable, is managed using forward contracts see note 26.
Sensitivity analysis A 5% weakening of the US$ at 31 March 2010 would have resulted in the following increases decreases in equity and profit or loss.
31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Profit or loss 1.3 0.5 Equity 5.2 0.9 Interest rate risk The Group seeks to mitigate partially against increased interest rates while maintaining a degree of flexibility to benefit from decreasing rates of interest by holding a mix of fixed and floating rate financial liabilities.
The Group seeks to maximise the amount of interest income from its cash balances by using a variety of short-term, fixed high-interest deposit and moneymarket accounts.
The Group does not consider the impact of interest rate risk to be material to its results or operations and accordingly no sensitivity analysis is shown.
Market price risk It is, on occasion, deemed appropriate to take equity stakes in early-stage companies utilising the Groups technology as part of the overall licensing arrangement and small loans may be granted to these companies to further technology development.
These investments will be realised at an appropriate time in the development cycle.
Regular reports are made to the Board on the status of investments.
These investments form part of the Groups overall technology portfolio and do not materially affect liquidity.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 101 101 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Capital management The Group defines the capital that it manages as the Groups total equity.
The Groups objectives when managing capital are: To safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
To provide an adequate return to investors based on the level of risk undertaken.
To have available the necessary financial resources to allow the Group to invest in areas that may deliver future benefits for inventive sources and returns to investors.
To maintain sufficient financial resources to mitigate against risks and unforeseen events.
The Groups capital and equity ratio are shown in the table below.
31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Total equity capital and reserves attributable to BTG shareholders m 215.2 212.6 Total assets m 311.0 329.4 Equity ratio 69.2% 64.5% The Group is not subject to regulatory capital adequacy requirements as known in the financial services industry.
Financial instruments The Groups financial instruments comprise cash, short-term deposits, foreign currency forward contracts and various items such as trade debtors and creditors which arise directly from operations.
In addition, a number of debt and equity investments, both quoted and unquoted as shown in notes 19 and 20, are held in technology-based companies along with borrowings including obligations under finance leases.
Fair values The fair values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying values shown in the statement of financial position, are as follows: Forward Total Designated contracts at Available Amortised carrying at fair value fair value for sale cost value Fair value m m m m m m 31 March 2009 Cash and cash equivalents 78.2 78.2 78.2 Forward contracts 7.3 7.3 7.3 Other investments 3.2 3.2 3.2 Trade and other receivables 0.1 29.1 29.2 29.2 Trade and other payables 60.4 60.4 60.4 Borrowings 0.2 0.2 0.2 31 March 2010 Cash and cash equivalents 82.6 82.6 82.6 Forward contracts 0.8 0.8 0.8 Other investments 3.7 3.7 3.7 Trade and other receivables 0.1 20.3 20.4 20.4 Trade and other payables 49.3 49.3 49.3 7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 102 102 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Following the implementation of IFRS7 Revised Financial Instruments: Disclosures the Group is disclosing for the first time a fair value hierarchy to reflect the significance of inputs used in making fair value assessments.
The fair value hierarchy includes the following three levels: Level 1 quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities Level 2 observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities Level 3 unobservable inputs Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities Level 1 Level 2 Total m m m At 31 March 2009 Financial assets recognised at fair value Other investments 3.2 3.2 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Forward contracts 7.3 7.3 At 31 March 2010 Financial assets recognised at fair value Investments 3.7 3.7 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Forward contracts 0.8 0.8 Level 1 financial liabilities represent forward foreign exchange contracts to sell US$ which are marked-to-market at each balance sheet date.
Level 2 financial assets represent other investments held at fair value and disclosed in note 20.
Contractual maturity analysis of financial liabilities 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Forward foreign exchange contracts that mature within: m m 0 to 3 months 2.4 3 to 6 months 0.8 4.9 6 to 12 months 0.8 7.3 Net gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities Foreign exchange losses of 4.0m 2009: losses of 0.9m were recognised within Operating profit in relation to settlement of trade receivables and payables.
The Group recognised a fair value gain of 6.5m 2009: loss of 4.9m relating to forward foreign exchange contracts within Financial Income 2009: Financial Expense.
No fair value losses were recycled from the fair value reserve within equity in relation to investments sold or impaired during the year.
During 2009 0.5m fair value losses were recognised within equity in relation to investments held at fair value.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 103 103 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Estimation of fair values The following summarises the methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table.
Other investments These comprise both listed and unlisted investments, available-for-sale.
The figure recorded in the statement of financial position note 20 is the best estimate of fair value.
Borrowings and finance leases The fair values of such balances are estimated by discounting the future cash flows at the market rate.
Trade receivables, trade payables and cash and cash equivalents Trade payables and receivables have a remaining life of less than one year so their value recorded in the statement of financial position is considered to be a fair approximation of fair value.
34 Operating leases Total non-cancellable operating lease rentals are due in the following periods: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Vehicles, Vehicles, plant and plant and Property equipment Property equipment m m m m Within one year 0.7 2.1 Between two and five years 1.3 4.3 2.0 6.4 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable for certain of its office properties, plant and equipment under noncancellable operating lease agreements.
The Group leases varying offices and facilities in London, Philadelphia, Nashville, and Australia.
These leases have terms of up to five years.
The leases in Nashville, Australia and London contain options to extend for a further three, five and five years respectively.
In the event of renewal, the lease contracts contain market review clauses.
None of the property leases provide the Group with an option to purchase the leased asset at the expiry of the lease period.
The Group has entered into sub-leasing agreements with third parties for space in its some of its UK and US offices.
Rental of 0.3m was receivable under these agreements in the year ended 31 March 2010 2009: 2.0m.
The total future minimum lease payments expected to be received over the respective terms of the sub-leases is 0.2m 2009: 0.5m.
This is analysed as follows: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 m m Balances receivable: Within one year 0.2 0.1 Between two and five years 0.4 0.2 0.5 7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 104 104 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35 Other financial commitments The Group has entered into agreements with a number of early-stage companies and venture capital funds.
At 31 March 2010 the Group is committed to invest 0.7m under these agreements 2009: 1.3m.
As with any business whose core assets are intellectual property, the Group will from time to time resort to litigation or threats of litigation, or other legal processes, to defend its rights.
Litigation costs are regarded as a cost of doing business and will vary from year to year.
In the current year the Group incurred 1.4m in litigation costs 2009: 0.1m.
The Company has entered into an agreement to guarantee payments under the lease of a US subsidiary undertaking.
The Company has provided a guarantee to certain subsidiary undertakings in respect of the BTG Pension Plan to make payments to the Plan up to a maximum amount equal to the lowest non-negative amount which, when added to the assets of the Plan would result in the Plan being at least 105% funded on the date on which any liability arose, calculated on the basis set out in section 179 of the Pensions Act 2004, were a valuation to be conducted at that date.
36 Related parties Identity of related parties The Group has a related-party relationship with its subsidiary undertakings see note 2 b, its associates see note 2 b and its directors.
No additional investments were made nor dividends received from associates in the years ended 31 March 2010 or 2009.
In relation to the related-party relationship identified on page 42, payments made by BTG to Oxford University and Isis Innovations Ltd under the relevant licence agreements were 1.2m during the year ended 31 March 2010.
Amounts still outstanding and payable by BTG under these agreements as at 31 March 2010 of 1.0m are included within Trade and other payables falling due within one year.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 105 105 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 37 Group entities The significant subsidiary undertakings of BTG plc at 31 March 2010 are all wholly owned, incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales, unless shown otherwise.
All subsidiary undertakings operate in their country of incorporation and are consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
Class of capital Principal activity BTG International Holdings Ltd Ordinary Investment in IPR management companies Provensis Ltd Ordinary Development and commercialisation of IPR BTG International Ltd Ordinary Development, management and commercialisation of IPR BTG Employee Share Schemes Ltd Guernsey Ordinary Trustee company BTG Investment Holdings Ltd Ordinary Investment in IPR management companies BTG International Inc. Delaware, US Common stock Development, management and and paid in capital commercialisation of IPR British Technology Group Inter-Corporate Ordinary Development, management and Licensing Ltd commercialisation of IPR Protherics Ltd Ordinary Investment and management formerly Protherics PLC of group companies Protherics Medicines Development Ltd Ordinary Development, management and commercialisation of IPR Protherics Inc. Delaware, US Ordinary Research, development, manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products and potential drugs Enact Pharma Ltd Ordinary Development, management and commercialisation of IPR Protherics UK Ltd Ordinary Research, development, manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products and potential drugs BTG Australasia Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary Manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical formerly Protherics Australasia Pty Limited products and potential drugs Protherics Utah Inc. Delaware, US Ordinary The research, development, manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products and potential drugs Protherics Salt Lake City Inc. Delaware, US Ordinary Development, management and commercialisation of IPR Indicates direct subsidiary of BTG plc.
British Technology Group Inter-Corporate Licensing Ltd incorporates a US branch.
7884 Accounts 2010 Accounts 2010 02 06 2010 16:36 Page 106 106 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 38 Acquisition of business operations On 4 December 2008, the Company acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Protherics PLC subsequently renamed Protherics Limited, a listed UK company, in exchange for 104,044,710 new BTG plc ordinary share of 10 pence each, giving a fair value of consideration of 171.3m based on the share price of 1.61 in existence at the time of acquisition.
No cash consideration was paid.
Protherics Limited is the parent company of the Protherics Group, a leading international biopharmaceutical company focused on critical care and cancer.
The acquisition of the Protherics Group provides the platform to create a self-sustaining specialty pharmaceuticals business.
This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting.
Details of the net assets acquired are set out in the table below: Fair value Book value adjustment Fair value m m m Non-current assets: Intangible assets 16.7 147.4 164.1 Goodwill 11.2 11.2 Property, plant and equipment 11.7 11.7 Current assets: Inventories 11.3 2.6 13.9 Deferred tax asset 0.5 0.5 Trade and other receivables 5.5 0.2 5.3 Cash and cash equivalents 23.2 23.2 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 18.2 18.2 Deferred income 12.5 12.5 Non-current liabilities: Trade and other payables 1.7 1.7 Deferred income 8.8 8.8 Deferred tax liabilities 36.2 36.2 Total assets acquired 38.9 102.4 141.3 Goodwill 30.0 Total consideration 171.3 Settled by equity 167.3 Directly attributable costs 4.0 Cash paid Cash and cash equivalents included in undertaking acquired 23.2 Directly attributable costs 4.0 Net cash inflow arising on acquisition 19.2 The goodwill arising on acquisition resulted from assets which could not be recognised separately including early-stage pipeline products and a highly skilled workforce.
The fair value adjustments have not been adjusted since their provisional valuations.
The main elements of the significant fair value adjustments are described below: Intangible assets in respect of the marketed products, in-process research and development and contractual relationships in accordance with IFRS3 Business Combinations Revaluation of inventory reflecting profit accrued up to the stage of production at the time of the transaction Deferred tax liabilities in relation to the acquired intangible assets over and above 18.2m of deferred tax assets in recognition of acquired accumulated tax losses 39 Post balance sheet event On 18 May 2010 BTG completed the purchase of the land in Australia on which the Group manages its sheep and serum production for CroFab, DigiFab and CytoFab.
This is a central part of the Groups supply chain and an integral part of the FDA-approved manufacturing process.
