7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:40 Page 59 59 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The financial statements include a fair review of the and the Group and Parent Company financial statements information required by: in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
12RR of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, being a fair review of the development and performance Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and of the business and the position of the issuer and the Parent Company financial statements for each financial undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group whole, together with a description of the principal risks financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted and uncertainties faced by the Group.
by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare DTR 4.2.
8R of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, being the Parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
related party transactions that have taken place during the current financial year and that have materially affected the Under company law the directors must not approve the financial position or performance of the entity during that financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give period: and any changes in the related party transactions a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and described in the last Annual Report that could do so.
Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company By order of the Board financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Dr Louise Makin Rolf Soderstrom consistently: Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: 20 May 2010 state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
