| Financial statements continuation Notes to the financial statements 2.
Accounting policies continued The fair value of financial instruments that are For unquoted available for sale investments, Derivative financial instruments actively traded in organised financial markets the Group establishes fair value using The Group has entered into a total return is determined by reference to quoted market valuation techniques such as using recent swap contract over part of its investment bid prices at the close of business on the arms length market transactions, reference portfolio.
Gains or losses on the swap are balance sheet date.
Assets in this category to current fair value of another instrument that recognised in the consolidated income are classified as current assets.
is substantially the same, discounted cash statement in accordance with the fair value flow analysis or other valuation models.
movements in the swap over the period of the Loans and receivables contract.
At the balance sheet date, any cash Financial liabilities Loans and receivables, including loans to settlement due from, or to, the counterparty is employees, are non-derivative financial assets recorded within current assets or current Financial liabilities within the scope of IAS with fixed or determinable payments that are 39 are classified as financial liabilities at fair liabilities as appropriate.
not quoted in an active market.
They are value through profit or loss, loans and included in current assets, except where they borrowings or as derivatives designated The Group has also entered into interest rate have maturities greater than 12 months after swap contracts in order to reduce its exposure as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, the balance sheet date.
These are classified as appropriate.
The Group determines the to movements in interest rates on its bank as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables classification of its financial liabilities at facility loan exposure.
Gains or losses on are classified as trade and other receivables initial recognition.
such contracts are recognised within finance in the balance sheet.
They are recognised expense in the income statement.
initially at fair value and subsequently Financial liabilities are recognised initially measured at amortised cost using the effective at fair value and in the case of loans and Investment in subsidiary undertakings interest method, less provision for impairment.
borrowings, net of directly attributable Investment in subsidiary undertakings are A provision for impairment of trade receivables transaction costs.
held at cost, unless there has been an is established when there is objective evidence impairment in value.
that the Group will not be able to collect all The Groups financial liabilities include trade amounts due according to the original terms and other payables, loans and borrowings Cash and cash equivalents of the receivables.
The amount of the provision and derivative financial instruments.
is the difference between the assets carrying Cash amounts represent cash in hand and amount and the present value of estimated short term deposits.
Cash equivalents are Trade and other payables future cash flows, discounted at the original short term deposits which have an original Trade and other payables are stated at effective interest rate.
When a trade receivable maturity of 90 days or less.
amortised cost using the effective interest is uncollectible, it is written off against trade rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated receivables and the amount of the loss is Provisions by taking into account any issue costs and recognised in the consolidated income any discount or premium on settlement.
Provisions which are liabilities of uncertain statement.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts A financial liability is derecognised when timing or amount, are recognised when: previously written off are credited in the the obligation under the liability has been the Group has a present obligation, as a consolidated income statement.
discharged, cancelled or has expired.
result of a past event: it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic Available for sale investments Loans and borrowings benefits will be required to settle the Available for sale investments are nonBorrowings are recognised initially at fair obligation: and a reliable estimate can be derivative financial assets that are either value, net of transaction costs incurred.
made of the amount of the obligation.
designated in this category or not classified in Borrowings are subsequently stated at any of the other categories.
They are included amortised cost: any difference between in non-current assets unless management Taxation the proceeds net of transaction costs and actively intends to dispose of the investment The Group provides for current tax according the redemption value is recognised in the within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
to the tax laws of each jurisdiction in which consolidated income statement over the it operates, using tax rates that have been period of the borrowings using the effective Gains and losses arising from changes enacted or substantively enacted by the interest method.
Borrowings are classified in fair value are recognised directly in other balance sheet date.
Management periodically as current liabilities unless the Group has comprehensive income until the security is evaluates positions taken in tax returns with an unconditional right to defer settlement disposed of or is impaired, at which time the respect to situations in which applicable of the liability for at least 12 months after cumulative gain or loss previously recognised tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
in other comprehensive income is reclassified It establishes provisions where appropriate to the consolidated income statement for the on the basis of amounts expected to be paid Certain share awards made to employees accounting period.
including conditions which, prior to them vesting, may require the Group to repurchase Where a fall in the value of an equity Deferred tax is provided, using the liability the shares at nominal value.
Accordingly, investment is deemed to be significant or method, on temporary differences at the these amounts are shown within loans prolonged, this is considered an indication of financial position date between the tax bases and borrowings.
impairment under IAS 39, Financial of assets and liabilities and their carrying Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Financial liabilities at fair value through In such an event, the investment is written Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all profit or loss down to fair value and the amounts previously temporary differences that have originated Financial liabilities at fair value through profit recognised in equity in respect of market but not reversed at the balance sheet date, or loss includes financial liabilities held for value movement on the investment are where transactions or events that result in recognised in the consolidated income trading and financial liabilities designated an obligation to pay more tax in the future statement as an impairment charge.
upon initial recognition at fair value through or a right to pay less tax in the future have Impairment losses recognised in the profit or loss.
occurred at the balance sheet date.
A deferred consolidated income statement on equity tax asset is recognised when it is considered instruments are not reversed through the consolidated income statement.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 68 68 Jupiter Fund Management plc
