| Financial statements continuation Notes to the financial statements 2.
Accounting policies continued recoverable and, therefore, recognised only in the consolidated income statement as part circumstances, the original estimates and when, on the basis of all available evidence, of other gains losses.
assumptions will be modified as appropriate it can be regarded as probable that there will in the period in which the circumstances be suitable taxable profits against which to Group companies change.
The areas where assumptions recover carried forward tax losses and from and estimates are significant to the Group The results and financial position of all Group which the future reversal of underlying financial statements are discussed in the entities that have a functional currency temporary differences can be deducted.
different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency Deferred tax is measured at the average tax as follows: Impairment of goodwill rates that are expected to apply in the periods assets and liabilities for each balance Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, in which the temporary differences are sheet presented are translated at the or more frequently if changes in circumstances expected to reverse based on tax rates and closing rate at the date of that indicate that the carrying value may be laws that have been enacted or substantively balance sheet: impaired.
For this purpose, management enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income and expenses for each prepares a value in use calculation which tax is measured on an undiscounted basis.
consolidated income statement are is based on the approved budget for the Current and deferred tax relating to items translated at average exchange rates: and following year and then extrapolated for recognised in other comprehensive income all resulting exchange differences are expected future growth rates and discounted is recognised in other comprehensive income recognised as a separate component at the Groups pre tax equity cost of capital.
and not in the consolidated income statement.
The judgement exercised by management in Deferred tax that has arisen in respect of arriving at this valuation includes the selection equity items is recognised in equity and not Operating leases of market growth rates, fund flow assumptions, in the consolidated income statement.
The carrying Operating leases are leases where the lessor amount of goodwill is detailed in the retains substantially all the risks and benefits Expenses and assets are recognised net of goodwill note.
of ownership of the asset.
All of the Groups the amount of value added tax, except where leases are operating leases and rental this tax is not recoverable, in which case the Impairment of available for sale payments are charged to the consolidated value added tax is recognised as part of the financial investments income statement on a straight line basis cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of Available for sale financial assets are over the term of the lease.
Receivables and payables are reviewed for impairment in accordance with stated with the amount of value added tax the guidance on impairment set out in IAS 39.
The net amount of value added tax In specific cases, where a quoted market recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation The Group operates an employee benefit price or fair value is not available, significant authority is included as part of receivables or trust for the purpose of satisfying certain judgement is exercised by management in payables in the consolidated balance sheet.
The holdings determining the extent of impairment of of this trust include certain shares that have available for sale financial assets.
In making Foreign currency not vested unconditionally in employees of this judgement, the Group evaluates, among the Group.
These shares are classified as other factors, the duration and extent to which Functional and presentational currency own shares.
They are held for the short term the fair value of an investment is less than Items included in the financial information of to meet future award requirements and are its cost, as well as the financial health of and each of the Groups entities are measured recorded, at cost, as own shares.
business outlook for the investee, including using the currency of the primary economic factors such as industry and sector environment in which the entity operates Dividend recognition performance and operational and financing the functional currency.
financial statements are presented in sterling Dividend distributions to the Companys, which is both the Companys functional shareholders are recognised in the Accrued income and expenses and presentational currency as well as accounting period in which the dividends are Accrued income and expenses are based the currency in which the majority of the paid and, in the case of final dividends, when Groups revenue streams, assets and these are approved by the Companys on latest available information and therefore involve a degree of estimation.
The most liabilities are denominated.
significant expense accruals at year end relate to bonus and other variable Transactions and balances Exceptional items remuneration scheme costs.
Foreign currency transactions are translated Exceptional items are those significant items into the functional currency using the which are required to be separately disclosed Deferred income tax assets exchange rates prevailing at the dates of due to their size or incidence in order to Deferred tax assets are recognised for the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains enable a better understanding of the Groups all unused tax losses to the extent that it is and losses resulting from the settlement of financial performance.
probable that taxable profit will be available such transactions and from the translation against which the losses can be utilised.
at year end exchange rates of monetary Critical accounting estimates, Significant management judgement is assets and liabilities denominated in judgements and assumptions required to determine the amount of deferred foreign currencies are recognised in the income tax assets that can be recognised, consolidated income statement within The preparation of the financial information based upon the likely timing and the level administrative expenses.
requires management to make estimates and of future taxable profits with future tax assumptions that affect the reported amount planning strategies.
Translation differences on non-monetary of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities financial assets and liabilities are reported as and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
If Impairment of acquired intangibles part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation in the future such estimates and assumptions, differences on non-monetary financial assets which are based on managements best An assessment is made at each reporting and liabilities such as equities held at fair date as to whether there is any indication that judgement at the date of preparation of the value through profit or loss are recognised financial information, deviate from actual an asset in use may be impaired.
If any Annual Report & Accounts 2010 69 69 Jupiter Fund Management plc
