| Governance Directors report Directors responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting and Accounts, the Directors Remuneration report and the records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys financial statements in accordance with applicable law and transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Directors have prepared the Group and parent Company financial report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial Group and, hence, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view detection of fraud and other irregularities.
of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable legislation in other jurisdictions.
and prudent: state whether IFRS, as adopted by the EU, have been followed, Each of the Directors, whose names are listed in the Directors subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the profiles, confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance unless it is inappropriate to presume the Company will continue with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the in business.
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Group: and the business review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board Philip Johnson Chief Financial Officer 8 April 2011 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 54 54 Jupiter Fund Management plc
