Financial statements Independent Auditors report Consolidated statement of changes in equity Consolidated income statement Company statement of changes in equity Statement of other comprehensive income Consolidated statement of cash flows Consolidated balance sheet Company statement of cash flows Company balance sheet Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Group and Company 1.
Introduction The principal activity of Jupiter Fund Basis of accounting Uniform accounting policies are applied Management plc the Company is to act as across all Group companies and intra-group The consolidated financial information for the a holding company for a group of investment transactions, balances, income and expenses year ended 31 December 2010 includes the management companies.
The Company and are eliminated on consolidation.
consolidated financial statements of the its subsidiaries together the Group offer a Company and its subsidiaries for the years range of asset management products.
The Group holds a controlling interest in ended 31 December 2009 and 31 December Through its subsidiaries, the Group acts as certain mutual funds, unit trusts and similar 2010.
The accounting policies that follow set investment manager to authorised unit trusts, entities which are accounted for as out those policies that have been applied SICAVs, investment trust companies, subsidiaries.
The funds have issued consistently in preparing the financial pension funds, private clients, hedge funds redeemable shares to the Group and external statements, with no new policies adopted for and other specialist funds.
The Group has investors who have the ability to put the the year ended 31 December 2010.
The offices in the United Kingdom, Bermuda, redeemable shares back to the funds.
In preparation of financial statements in Germany, Jersey and Singapore.
The accordance with IAS 32, puttable financial conformity with IFRS requires the use of principal operating subsidiaries within the instruments and obligations arising on certain critical accounting estimates.
It also Group during the year ended 31 December liquidation, non-controlling interests in requires management to exercise its 2010 are disclosed in the principal group redeemable shares issued by these funds judgement in the process of applying the undertakings note.
Jupiter Fund Management accounted for as subsidiaries represent the Groups accounting policies.
The areas plc is a company incorporated and domiciled portion of profit or loss and net assets that is involving a higher degree of judgement or in the United Kingdom and is the ultimate not held by the Group or its subsidiaries and complexity, or areas where assumptions parent of the Group.
are included within other gains losses in and estimates are significant to the the consolidated income statement and as consolidated financial statements are liabilities at fair value through profit or loss in disclosed below.
Accounting policies the consolidated balance sheet.
This is due to the ability of the external shareholders in Change of Company name Basis of preparation these funds to put the shares back to the The Company changed its name from Jupiter funds.
Such instruments are liabilities of the The financial statements have been prepared Investment Management Holdings Limited to group in accordance with IAS 32, Financial in accordance with International Financial Jupiter Fund Management plc on 1 June 2010 instruments: presentation.
Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by and re-registered as a public company on that the European Union and IFRIC Interpretations same date in preparation for Listing on the Associates IFRS as adopted by the EU and with the London Stock Exchange.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 Associates are those entities in which the applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Group has significant influence, but not The accounting policies have been applied Basis of consolidation control, over the financial and operating consistently to all periods presented in the policies and are usually accompanied with a Subsidiaries financial statements.
and 50 Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the per cent.
Control exists when the Group has The financial statements have been prepared are held as part of the Groups investment the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the on a going concern basis using the historical portfolio in mutual funds, unit trusts and financial and operating policies of an entity so cost convention modified by the revaluation of similar entities are carried in the balance as to obtain benefit from its activities, certain available for sale financial assets, sheet at fair value even though the Group generally accompanying a shareholding of financial assets and financial liabilities may have significant influence over those more than one half of the voting rights.
Seed including derivative financial instruments that companies as permitted by IAS 28, capital investments in closed-ended funds, have been measured at fair value through the Investment in Associates, with changes in fair open-ended investment companies and unit statement of other comprehensive income and value recognised in the consolidated income trusts are accounted for as subsidiaries, the profit or loss respectively.
The fair value of investments in associates or other financial investments the Groups current plans and forecasts and associates is determined by reference to the depending on the holdings of the Group and financing arrangements, as well as the current quoted market bid prices or net asset value of on the level of influence and control that the trading activities of the Group, the Directors the underlying investments at the close of Group exercises.
The transactions and consider that the Group has adequate business on the balance sheet date.
The balances of subsidiaries are consolidated in resources to continue operating for the Group has no investment in associates other these financial statements from the date that foreseeable future.
than these and, therefore, no associates are control commences until the date that currently equity accounted.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 65 65 65 65 Jupiter Fund Management plc Jupiter Fund Management plc
