| Financial statements continuation Notes to the financial statements 2.
Accounting policies continued Revenue recognition Operating segment Employee benefits Revenue The operating segment is reported in a Pension costs manner consistent with the internal reporting Revenue comprises the fair value of the The Group provides employees with provided to the chief operating decision consideration received or receivable for the retirement benefits through defined maker.
The chief operating decision maker, provision of investment management contribution schemes.
Contributions made who is responsible for allocating resources services.
Revenue is shown net of any value by the Group are charged to the consolidated and assessing performance of the operating added tax, rebates and discounts.
Revenue income statement as they become payable segment as well as making strategic primarily consists of the following: in accordance with the rules of the schemes.
decisions, has been identified as the Board.
Management fees, recognised in the Incentive plans period in which the service is performed Operating earnings The Group recognises a provision for and calculated as a percentage of net fund bonuses, based on a formula that takes into Operating earnings are defined as net assets managed, in accordance with consideration the operating profitability of revenue less administrative expenses and do individual management agreements.
At the end of each financial year, not include investment income and returns, the Group recognises a liability for bonuses other gains losses, amortisation of intangible Performance fees, calculated as a accrued but not yet paid, in respect of service assets or exceptional costs.
These are items percentage of the appreciation in the attributable to that year.
Retention bonus which the Group considers are not indicative net asset value of a fund above a defined expense is recognised in the income of the ongoing income and costs of its hurdle.
These are recognised when the statement over the appropriate performance operations.
The Group believes that fee amount can be estimated reliably and and vesting period, with a corresponding operating earnings, while not a GAAP it is probable that the fee will be receivable.
liability being recognised in the Groups measure, gives relevant information on the Such fees are normally recognised at the balance sheet.
profitability of the Group and its ongoing end of the relevant performance period.
Operating earnings may not be In certain periods prior to the Groups comparable with similarly titled measures Initial charges on sales of unit trusts, Listing, the Group made retention awards used by other companies.
are deferred and amortised over the to employees by making payments to the anticipated period of the provision of Groups employee benefit trust, which Commission expenses investment management services.
Initial were used to buy assets on behalf of the charges also include income from the sale Commission payments made to third parties employee.
These transactions do not of units and profits earned on dealing for ongoing services under distribution constitute share based payments.
The within the unit trust managers box, agreements are charged to the consolidated assets, which vest after the satisfaction calculated as the difference between income statement over the period in which of certain conditions, are recognised on the cost of purchasing redeemed units the service is expected to be provided.
The the Groups balance sheet until vesting.
at cancellation prices and reselling them services provided include the provision of The expense is recognised in the income at creation prices.
Such box profits access to a basket of fund products, statement over the appropriate performance are recognised when the related information on financial products, promotional and vesting period.
materials, ongoing services to customers and transaction processing.
Share based payment transactions Interest on cash and cash equivalents is The Group engages in equity settled share recognised on an accruals basis using the Other gains losses based payment transactions in respect of effective interest rate method.
Other gains losses comprise gains and services receivable from certain employees, losses on: by granting the right to acquire either shares Dividend income from investments is financial assets and investments in or options over shares, subject to certain recognised on the date when shareholders associates held at fair value through profit vesting conditions.
rights to receive payment have been or loss: and established.
total return swap contracts held to hedge The difference between the fair value of the against losses on some of the Groups employee services received in respect of the Gains and losses on financial assets seed capital investments.
shares or share options granted and the price at fair value through profit or loss are payable is recognised as an expense over the recognised in the consolidated income appropriate performance and vesting period.
statement as other gains losses.
Finance expense The corresponding credit is recognised in Interest payable is charged on an accruals retained earnings within total equity.
The fair Gains and losses on revaluation basis using the effective interest method.
value of services is calculated using the of available for sale investments are Dividends on Tier 2 preference shares are market value on the date of award, discounted initially recognised through the consolidated treated as interest payable following from for dividends foregone over the holding period statement of other comprehensive income.
the treatment of these shares as debt rather of the award, and is adjusted for expected and Upon disposal, any gain or loss previously than equity.
Debt issue costs relating to the actual levels of vesting.
Where options lapse taken through other comprehensive income raising of loans and borrowings are deducted they are credited to the income statement in is reversed and the full gain or loss since from the carrying value of the loans and the year in which they lapse.
purchase, after any impairment charge borrowings and are amortised over the term previously recognised, is reclassified to the of the loan using the effective interest consolidated income statement.
Finance costs, reported within finance expense, include ancillary charges Under the requirements of IFRS 3, Business Net revenue is stated after deducting for commitment fees, non-utilisation fees combinations, all business combinations are commissions and fees payable to and margin reduction fees that are charged accounted for using the purchase method intermediaries for ongoing services under as incurred.
The cost of a distribution agreements.
business combination is the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets Annual Report & Accounts 2010 66 66 Jupiter Fund Management plc
