| Financial statements continuation Notes to the financial statements 2.
Accounting policies continued such indication exists and the carrying values statement is adjusted appropriately.
At a Other amendments and improvements that exceed the estimated recoverable amount minimum, this is adjusted at the end of the will come into force will not have an impact at that time, then the assets are written down relevant scheme.
The Directors do not anticipate to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable that the adoption of these standards and amount is measured as the greater of fair interpretations would have a material impact New standards and interpretations value less costs to sell.
on the financial statements in the period not applied of initial application, except for IFRS 9, The Group has continued to apply the Financial Instruments on Classification and Share based payments accounting policies used for its 2009 Measurement, which is the first part of a new The charge to the income statement accounts and as disclosed in the Companys standard on classification and measurement in respect of share based payments Listing prospectus.
The following standards of financial instruments that will replace is calculated using assumptions over and amendments to existing standards have IAS 39.
IFRS 9 has three measurement the number of eligible employees leaving been published and are mandatory for the categories: amortised cost: fair value through the Group and the number of employees Groups accounting periods beginning on or profit and loss: and fair value through other satisfying the relevant performance after 1 January 2011 or later periods, but the comprehensive income.
These estimates are reviewed Group has decided not to early adopt them: are measured at fair value but fair value regularly and the charge to the income movements can be taken to profit or loss or other comprehensive income based on an irrevocable one time instrument by instrument designation.
A debt instrument is valued at Effective for period amortised cost only if the entity is holding Not yet endorsed beginning on or after it to collect contractual cash flows and the cash flows represent principal and interest: IFRS 9 Financial Assets 1 January 2013 otherwise it is at fair value through profit or loss.
Accordingly, investments classified as available for sale in the consolidated balance Endorsed and available for early adoption sheet will have to be classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss or IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum 1 January 2011 for equities only at fair value through other amendment Funding Requirement comprehensive income.
IFRS 9 has not yet been endorsed by the European Union.
The IAS 24 revised Related Party Disclosures 1 January 2011 impact of the new standard will be determined by the Groups decision as to how it wishes Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with IFRIC 19 1 January 2011 to reclassify its available for sale assets.
Equity Instruments Other future developments include the International Accounting Standards Board IASB undertaking a comprehensive review of existing IFRS which, in June 2010, it prioritised into those IFRS that it expects to issue by 30 June 2011.
The IASB also plans to issue new standards on offsetting, consolidation, fair value measurement, the presentation of other comprehensive income and revenue recognition.
The Group will consider the financial impact of these new standards as they are finalised.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 70 70 Jupiter Fund Management plc
