| Financial statements continuation Notes to the financial statements 2.
Accounting policies continued given, liabilities incurred or assumed, equity The difference is then recognised in the 1.
Motor vehicles 4 years instruments issued by the acquirer and any consolidated income statement.
costs directly attributable to the business 2.
Office furniture and 3-5 years combination.
This cost is allocated at the Financial instruments equipment acquisition date by recognising the acquirees Financial assets and liabilities are recognised identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 3.
Leasehold property Shorter of 10 years in the consolidated financial statements, when liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria, improvements and the remaining the Group becomes party to the contractual at their fair values at that date.
The acquisition period of the lease provisions of an instrument, at fair value date is the date on which the acquirer adjusted for transaction costs, except for effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
financial assets classified at fair value through The assets useful economic lives and Where acquisitions are made in future, IFRS profit or loss where transaction costs are residual values are reviewed at each financial 3 revised and IAS 27 revised will apply.
immediately recognised in the consolidated period end and adjusted if appropriate.
Financial assets are An item of property, plant and equipment is Goodwill derecognised when the rights to receive cash derecognised upon disposal or when no flows from the assets have expired or where Goodwill arising on acquisitions, being the future economic benefits are expected from they have been transferred and the Group has excess of the cost of a business combination its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on also transferred substantially all risks and over the fair value of the identifiable assets, the disposal of the asset, calculated as the rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, difference between the net disposal proceeds derecognised when the obligation under the is capitalised in the consolidated balance and the carrying amount of the item, is liability has been discharged, cancelled or sheet.
The carrying value of goodwill is not included in the consolidated income statement has expired.
amortised but is tested annually for in the year the item is sold or retired.
impairment or more frequently if any Financial assets indicators of impairment arise.
Intangible assets Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 Computer software licences acquired are can be classified as either financial assets Impairment of goodwill and noncapitalised at the cost incurred to bring the at fair value through profit or loss, loans and financial assets software into use and are amortised on a receivables, available for sale financial assets straight line basis over their estimated useful An impairment loss is recognised in the or as derivatives designated as hedging lives, which are estimated as being between consolidated income statement whenever instruments in an effective hedge.
Costs associated with the carrying value of an asset exceeds its classification adopted by the Group developing or maintaining computer software recoverable value, or, where the asset does depends on the purpose for which the programmes that do not meet the not generate cash flows that are largely financial assets were acquired and is capitalisation criteria under IAS 16 are independent of those from other assets, determined at initial recognition.
recognised as an expense as incurred.
its carrying value is greater than the recoverable value of its cash generating unit.
The Groups financial assets include cash Intangible assets acquired separately are Any impairment is recognised immediately and short term deposits, trade and other measured on initial recognition at cost.
through administrative expenses in the receivables, loans to employees and other The cost of intangible assets acquired in consolidated income statement.
An asset receivables, quoted and unquoted financial a business combination is the fair value as or CGUs recoverable amount is the higher instruments and derivative financial at the date of acquisition.
Following initial of its value in use and its fair value less costs instruments that are not designated recognition, intangible assets are carried to sell.
The Group has determined that as hedges.
at cost less any accumulated amortisation the integrated nature of its investment and any accumulated impairment losses.
management activities is such that it is Financial assets at fair value through made up of a single CGU.
profit or loss The intangible assets currently recognised Financial assets at fair value through profit by the Group are its trade name and Property, plant and equipment or loss include investments in closed ended individual management contracts.
In both Property, plant and equipment is stated at funds, open ended investment companies cases, the useful lives are assessed as being and unit trusts which are designated as fair cost, less subsequent depreciation and finite and they are, therefore, amortised over impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that value through profit or loss, as they are their useful economic lives and assessed for managed and evaluated on a fair value is directly attributable to the acquisition of the impairment whenever there is an indication assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the basis, in accordance with documented of impairment.
The amortisation period and strategy.
A financial asset is classified assets carrying amount or recognised as the amortisation method for these assets is a separate asset, as appropriate, only when in this category if it has been acquired reviewed at least at each financial year end.
principally for the purpose of selling in the it is probable that future economic benefits The useful economic lives of the trade name associated with the item will flow to the Group short term.
This category also includes those and individual management contracts derivative financial instruments entered into and the cost of the item can be measured acquired are currently assessed as a by the Group.
All other repair and maintenance maximum of ten years and seven years, expenditures are charged to the consolidated respectively.
The amortisation expense on Financial assets at fair value through profit or income statement during the financial period intangible assets with finite lives is recognised loss are carried in the consolidated balance when they were incurred.
Depreciation is in the consolidated income statement on a sheet at fair value with gains and losses calculated on a straight line basis to allocate straight line basis.
recognised in the consolidated income the cost of each asset over its estimated statement within other gains losses useful life as follows: Gains and losses arising from derecognition in the period in which they arise.
of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying value of the asset.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 67 67 Jupiter Fund Management plc
