Notice of annual general meeting 65 Notice of annual general meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 121st annual general meeting of the Corporation will be held on 12 April 2011 at 11.00am at the Brewers Hall, Aldermanbury Square, London EC2V 7HR for the following purposes: Ordinary business 1.
To receive the report of the directors and the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2010.
To receive and approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2010.
To declare a final dividend of 8.5p per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010.
To re-elect Douglas McDougall as a director.
To re-elect Armel Cates as a director.
To re-elect Caroline Banszky as a director.
To re-elect John Kay as a director.
To re-elect Christopher Smith as a director.
To re-appoint BDO LLP as auditors of the Corporation to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
Special business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as special resolutions: 10.
General authority to buy back shares THAT the Corporation be and is generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Sections 693 and 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of any of its issued ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the Corporation, in such manner and upon such terms as the directors of the Corporation may from time to time determine, PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT: a the maximum number hereby authorised to be purchased shall be limited to 17,700,152 shares, or if less, that number of shares which is equal to 14.99% of the Corporations issued share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution: b the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 5p: c the maximum price which may be paid for a share shall be an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the shares for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: d unless previously revoked, renewed or varied, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the date of the Corporations next annual general meeting provided that a contract of purchase may be made before such expiry which will or may be executed wholly or partly thereafter, and a purchase of Shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 66 Notice of annual general meeting continued 11.
General authority to allot shares THAT: a the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to and in accordance with Section 551 of the Act to exercise for the period ending on the date of the Corporations next annual general meeting, all the powers of the Corporation to allot shares in the Corporation or to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Corporation up to an aggregate nominal amount within the meaning of Sections 551 3 and 6 of the Act of 295,199: b the Corporation may during such period make offers or agreements which would or might require the making of allotments of equity securities or relevant securities as the case may be after the expiry of such period.
Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights THAT: a in exercise of the authority given to the directors by resolution 11 above, the directors be empowered pursuant to Section 570 of the Act to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Corporation for the period ending on the date of the Corporations next annual general meeting wholly for cash generally up to an aggregate nominal amount of 295,199 as if Section 561 of the Act did not apply to such allotment, provided always that no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital shall be issued on a non pre-emptive basis within any three year period: b the Corporation may during such period make offers or agreements which would or might require the making of allotments of equity securities or relevant securities as the case may be after the expiry of such period.
Authority to convene a general meeting notice THAT: a general meeting of the Corporation, other than an annual general meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the board Registered office: Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited Fifth Floor Secretary 100 Wood Street 28 February 2011 London EC2V 7EX Registered No.
30397 The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com Notes to the notice of annual general meeting 67 1.
A member who holds ordinary shares on the register of members and is entitled to attend and vote at this meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote in his or her place or in the case of a corporation, to appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Corporation.
Proxy rights do not apply to nominated persons although the nominated person may have a right under an agreement with the registered member to appoint a proxy.
In addition to instructing a proxy to vote for or against a resolution, the form enables shareholders to instruct a vote withheld if preferred.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of votes.
It may be used, for example, to convey a message of dissatisfaction on a particular issue, where the strength of feeling is not so great as to oppose the resolution, but supporting it is not appropriate either.
Shareholders who hold shares on the register of members as opposed to holding them in a nominee will find enclosed a form of proxy for use at the meeting.
To be valid, forms of proxy must be lodged electronically by accessing www.
com, or by post at the office of the Corporations registrar, Computershare Investor Services plc, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY.
CREST members can register votes electronically by using the service provided by Euroclear.
Proxies must be received not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting.
This is also the voting record date by which a person must be entered on the register in order to have a right to attend and vote at the meeting.
Lodgement of a form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending and voting in person.
The register of directors interests will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Corporation during normal business hours and at the annual general meeting.
No director has a service contract with the Corporation of more than one years duration.
Subject to the dividend on the ordinary shares now recommended being approved at the annual general meeting, dividends will be paid on 20 April 2011 to shareholders on the register on the record date on 18 March 2011.
Resolution 2 is to receive and approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31December 2010.
The remuneration report is set out at pages 28 to 33 of the annual report of the Corporation.
Resolution 4 - Douglas McDougall offers himself for re-election.
The board supports his re-election because he leads the board with skill and considerable success.
He is highly regarded in the investment trust sector and makes a full contribution to the board, with particular expertise in overseeing investment strategy.
His biography is included on page 5 of the annual report.
Resolution 5 - Armel Cates offers himself for re-election.
The board supports his re-election because Mr Cates continues to perform well as senior non-executive director as evidenced in his appraisal by the Chairman.
His extensive knowledge of corporate trusts is valued and he is an informed and expert director of the principal holding company for the independent fiduciary services business.
Resolution 6 - Caroline Banszky offers herself for re-election.
The board supports her re-election.
She continues to be a very effective managing director, improving profitability of the independent fiduciary services business and enhancing shareholder value.
Her biography is included on page 5 of the annual report.
Resolution 7 - Professor John Kay offers himself for re-election.
The board supports his re-election.
He provides a valuable insight into economic events and trends.
Resolution 8 is to re-elect Christopher Smith.
He brings a wealth of corporate finance experience to the board along with a thorough knowledge of the investment trust sector and regulatory matters and is an effective audit committee chairman.
He also chairs with skill the board of the principal holding company for the independent fiduciary services businesses.
Resolution 9 is to re-appoint BDO LLP as the Corporations auditors.
BDO LLP were first appointed on 31 October 2008.
Special resolution 10 renews the authority given to directors at the last annual general meeting to purchase ordinary shares in the market for cancellation.
Such purchases at appropriate times and prices could be a suitable method of enhancing shareholder value and would be applied within guidelines set from time to time by the board.
It should be noted that no such purchases would be undertaken if shares were trading at a premium to net asset value.
Special resolution 11 renews the authority given to directors at the last annual general meeting to allot unissued capital not exceeding 5,903,986 shares, being 5% of the issued share capital.
This authority is sought principally to allow the directors to satisfy demand for shares from participants in the Save as You Earn Scheme and Individual Savings Account, and would be exercised only at times when it would be advantageous to the Corporations shareholders to do so.
Shares would not be issued under this authority at a price lower than net asset value at the time of the issue.
If approved, the authority will continue to operate until the next annual general meeting.
Special resolution 12 is proposed because the directors consider that in order to allot shares in the circumstances described in resolution 11 it is in the best interests of the Corporation and its shareholders to allot a maximum of 5,903,986 shares other than on a pre-emptive basis.
The board would not, however, issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital on a non-pre-emptive basis within any three year period.
Special resolution 13 seeks authority to convene a general meeting but not the annual general meeting by giving not less than 14 clear days notice.
While the directors have no current intention to call a general meeting in the year ahead, circumstances might arise when such a meeting might become necessary and the directors deem it in the best interest of shareholders that it be held as quickly as possible.
Such circumstances might include, for example, a decision to make a significant amendment to the investment policy shareholder approval for such a change being a regulatory stipulation.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 68 Notes to the notice of annual general meeting continued 16.
Meeting notice requirements - the Corporation is required under the Act to make a number of additional disclosures as follows.
com investment-trust investor-information contains a copy of this notice, which includes the current total voting rights, as set out below.
Should the required number of members requisition the Corporation to publish any statement about the audit or related matters that the relevant members propose to raise at the AGM in accordance with Section 527 of the Act, this would be published at the Corporations expense on the website and forwarded to the auditor.
Similarly, any shareholder statements, resolutions and matters of business connected with the meeting received after publication of this notice will be published on the website subject to compliance by the submitting party with the Act.
At the AGM, the Corporation will cause to be answered any question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting put by a shareholder in attendance.
Total voting rights and share information The Corporation confirms that it has an issued share capital at 28 February 2011 of 118,079,737 ordinary shares with voting rights and no restrictions and no special rights with regard to control of the Corporation.
There are no other classes of share capital and none of the Corporations issued shares are held in treasury.
Therefore the total number of voting rights in The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. is 118,079,737.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com PRINCES ST BASINGHALL ST GRESHAM ST LOVE LANE CHEAPSIDE POULTRY RUSSIA ROW AGM Venue Brewers Hall Aldermanbury Square London EC2V 7HR BREWERS HALL P Tel: 020 7600 1801 P MOORGATE LONDON WALL ALDERMANBURY SQUARE BASINGHALL AV GUILDHALL ST PAULS BANK Cert no.
SA-COC-1654 CQ This document is printed on paper made from fibres sourced from managed and sustainable forests PEFC and FSC and, bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free ECF process.
EMAS Accredited and ISO 14001 Environmental Management System certified.
Designed and produced by LONDON WALL MILK ST ALDERMANBURY WOOD ST COLEMAN ST MOORGATE ST MARTIN LE GRANDE ALDERSGATE ST KING ST WOOD ST ALDERMANBURY www.
