228 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Investor relations Annual General Meeting The 2011 Annual General Meeting AGM will be held on Private investors should contact the Registrar with any queries.
Wednesday, 25 May 2011 at 2.30pm at The Honourable Artillery Institutional investors can contact the Investor Relations Team Company, Armoury House, City Road, London EC1Y 2BQ.
TheAGM provides Legal & General with the opportunity to by telephone on: 020 3124 2345 or email: meetits shareholders.
The Board regards the AGM as an investor.
important opportunity to communicate directly with private investors.
The Notice of Meeting and all other details for the Over the last year many companies have become aware that AGM are available at legalandgeneralgroup.
theirshareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters which imply a Pre-register your AGM question connection to the company concerned.
These are typically from If you wish to raise a question at the AGM, you can pre-register overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sellthem what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares your question on the website.
Dividend information They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
A 2006 Dividend per share This year the directors are recommending the payment of survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that a final dividend of 3.42p per share.
If you add this to your interim the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not dividend of 1.33p per share, the total dividend recommended justthe novice investor that has been duped in this way: many for2010 will be 4.75p per share 2009: 3.84p per share.
Thekey of thevictims had been successfully investing for several years.
dates for the payment of dividends are set out in the Important Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, Dates section on the next page.
offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free reports into the Company.
Dividend payments If you receive any unsolicited investment advice, make sure you get Legal & General is keen to encourage all its shareholders to have the correct name of the person and organisation and make a record their dividends paid directly into a Bank or Building Society of any other information they give you, e. g. telephone number, Account.
If you would like more details or a dividend mandate address etc.
form, please contact our Registrar.
Details of how to contact the Registrar can be found on the opposite page and on our website.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved.
Dividend reinvestment plan The Legal & General Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised enables shareholders to use their cash dividends to purchase overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors Legal & General Group Plc shares.
If you would like more details, andany approach from such organisations should be reported to please contact our Registrar.
Alternatively, the DRIP booklet the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any other and mandate form can be found in the Investors Section appropriate action can be considered.
If you deal with an of the website.
unauthorised firm, youwould not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can The Board will be seeking shareholder approval at the 2011 AGM be contacted by completing an online form at fsa.
uk pages to operate a SCRIP dividend scheme.
doing regulated law alerts form.
shtml or, if you do not have access to the internet, on 0845 606 1234.
Communications Internet Inform our Registrar, Equiniti Limited, on 0871 384 2118.
They are Information about the Company including details of the current not able to investigate such incidents themselves but will record share price is available in the Investors Section of the website.
the details and pass them on to us and liaise with the FSA.
Details of any sharedealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website fsa.
indd 228 25 03 2011 11:32 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 229 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED Shareview Financial reports Legal & General publishes an Annual Report and Accounts.
Shareview allows you to view your Legal & General shareholding These are available on the website.
Registering is easy: simply log on to shareview.
co. uk and follow the instructions.
You will need your shareholder The Annual Report and Accounts are sent to those shareholders reference number, which can be found on your share certificate who have elected to receive paper copies.
If you have any queries, please call the shareholders may elect to receive notification by email by Shareholder Helpline.
Copies of previous financial reports are available on the website.
Consolidation of share certificates Shareholders with more that one certificate may arrange to have If you receive more than one copy of our communications, it could them consolidated into one certificate by contacting be because you have more than one record on the share register.
To avoid duplicate mailings, please contact the Registrar, who can arrange for your accounts to be amalgamated.
Individual Savings Account ISA Equiniti Financial Services Limited provide a Single Company Registrar ISA for Legal & General Group Plc shares.
If you would like more You can contact our Registrar, Equiniti Limited: information, please call 0871 384 2244.
C alls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephone provider costs may vary.
By post: Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
Share dealing service By telephone: Shareholder Helpline: 0871 384 2118.
Shareholders may buy or sell shares using the internet or Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
telephone through a number of nominated providers.
Details can be found on the website.
All shareholder enquiries should be addressed to Equiniti.
General information The Registrar also provides the following services: Capital gains tax: For the purpose of calculating UK capital gains tax, the market value on 31 March 1982 of each share was 7.996p, Electronic share service after adjusting for the 1986 capitalisation issue and the 1996 and The electronic share service allows you to hold shares in 1999 sub-divisions, but not reflecting any rights taken up under Legal & General without the need for a share certificate and the 2002 rights issue.
enables you to benefit from shorter market settlement periods.
Individual shareholders hold their Legal & General shares in a Close company provisions: The Company is not a close company nominee holding registered in the name of Equiniti Corporate within the terms of the Income and Corporation Nominees Limited.
To join, or obtain further information, contact the Registrar.
They Registered office: One Coleman Street, London EC2R 5AA.
will send you a booklet, outlining the terms and conditions under Registered in England and Wales, No.
1417162. which your shares will be held, together with the appropriate share transfer form.
The booklet and the share transfer form are also Shareholder offer line: For details of shareholder offers on Legal available in the Investors Section of the website.
IMPORTANT DATES 17 March 2011 Final Results 2010 20 April 2011 Ex-dividend date Final Dividend 17 May 2011 Last day for DRIP elections 25 May 2011 Annual General Meeting 1 June 2011 Payment of Final Dividend for 2010 to members registered on 26 April 2011 3 August 2011 Half Year Results 2011 31 August 2011 Ex-dividend date Interim Dividend 3 October 2011 Payment of Interim Dividend for 2011 to members registered on 2 September 2011 L&G AR10 23-OtherInfo p228-232 230311 AT.
