290 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 ABBREVIATIONS ABS Asset-Backed Securities LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio ADRs American Depositary Receipts LIBOR London Inter-Bank Offered Rate BHF British Heart Foundation LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan BOSI Bank of Scotland Ireland Limited LTV Loan-to-value BSU Business Support Unit NSFR Net Stable Funding Ratio CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate OEICs Open Ended Investment Companies CDO Collateralised Debt Obligation OFAC Ofce of Foreign Assets Control CDS Credit Default Swap OFT Ofce of Fair Trading CRR Capital Resources Requirement PFI Private Finance Initiative CVA Credit Valuation Adjustment PPI Payment Protection Insurance ECNs Enhanced Capital Notes PPP Public Private Partnerships EEV European Embedded Value PVNBP Present Value of New Business Premiums EPS Earnings Per Share SAYE Save-As-You-Earn EU European Union SMEs Small and Medium sized enterprises FSA Financial Services Authority SPE Special Purpose Entity FOS Financial Ombudsman SWIP Scottish Widows Investment Partnership GAPS Government Asset Protection Scheme TSR Total Shareholder Return HMRC Her Majestys Revenue & Customs UK United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland IAS International Accounting Standard UKFI United Kingdom Financial Investment Limited IASB International Accounting Standards Board US United States of America ICB Independent Commission on Banking VaR Value-at-Risk ICG Individual Capital Guidance VAT Value Added Tax IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards ISA Individual Savings Account Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 291 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT ACCOUNTING DIVIDENDS Accounting policies 154 Ordinary dividends 227 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 165 EARNINGS PER SHARE 182 Future accounting developments 269 EMPLOYEES ADDRESSING THE KEY ISSUES 10 Diversity and inclusion 59 APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our people 57 Consolidated 270 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Parent company 282 Credit risk 75, 253, 282 AUDITORS Currency risk 251, 282 Report on the consolidated financial statements 144 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities 243, 282 Report on the parent company financial statements 272 Insurance risk 91 Fees 177 Interest rate risk 251, 282 Liquidity and funding risk 93, 263, 282 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Market risk 88 Accounting policies 156, 160 Measurement basis of financial assets and liabilities 240, 281 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 192 FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY 56 Valuation 244 BALANCE SHEET FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS inside front cover Consolidated 148, 149 GOING CONCERN Parent company 273 Basis of preparation 153 Directors report 113 CAPITAL ADEQUACY Capital ratios 99 GOODWILL CASH FLOW STATEMENT Accounting policy 154 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 194 Consolidated 152 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 265 GOVERNANCE Parent company 275 Compliance with the Combined Code 114 Risk management 65 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 6 Board Committees 120 CHARITABLE DONATIONS 113 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 8 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS 237 HELD AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 60 Accounting policy 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 183, 199 CREDIT MARKET EXPOSURES 260 Valuation 244 DEBT SECURITIES IN ISSUE IMPAIRMENT Consolidated 199 Accounting policy 158 Parent company 279 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 165 Valuation 244 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 178 DEPOSITS INCOME STATEMENT Customer deposits 198 Consolidated 146 Deposits from banks 198 Valuation 244 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Analysis of shareholders 284 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Shareholder enquiries 284 Accounting policy 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 184 INSURANCE BUSINESSES Valuation 244 Accounting policy 162 Basis of determining regulatory capital 102 DIRECTORS Capital sensitivities 107 Attendance at Board and committee meetings 119 Capital statement 103 Biographies 110 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 166 Directors report 112 Financial information calculated on a realistic basis 103 Emoluments 134 Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and Interests 136 Participating investment contracts 199 Remuneration policy 127 Liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts 207 Service agreements 133 292 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT INSURANCE BUSINESSES CONTINUED RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Business risk 74 Life insurance sensitivity analysis 206 Credit risk 75 Options and guarantees 107 Financial soundness 93 Unallocated surplus within insurance businesses 207 Insurance risk 91 Value of in-force business 194 Market risk 88 Volatility arising in insurance businesses 52 Principal risks and uncertainties 70 INSURANCE CLAIMS 175 Operational risk 91 Risk governance 67 INSURANCE PREMIUM INCOME 173 Risk management 65 INTANGIBLE ASSETS RISK-WEIGHTED ASSETS 101 Accounting policy 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 196 SECURITISATIONS AND COVERED BONDS 189 INVESTMENT PROPERTY SEGMENTAL REPORTING Accounting policy 160 Central items 51 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 193 Combined businesses segmental analysis 24, 25 Group Operations 50 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 5 Insurance 42 LOANS AND ADVANCES Notes to the consolidated financial statements 167 Loans and advances to banks 187 Retail 26 Loans and advances to customers 188 Wealth and International 36 Valuation 244 Wholesale 30 MARKETPLACE TRENDS 12 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Accounting policy 161 NET FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME 172 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 227 NET INTEREST INCOME 171 SHARE CAPITAL 222 NET TRADING INCOME 172 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY OPERATING EXPENSES 176Consolidated 150 Parent company 274 OTHER OPERATING INCOME 174 SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION Consolidated 216 Banking net interest margin 54 Parent company 278 Core and non-core business 55 Valuation 244 Integration 53 Volatility arising in insurance businesses 52 SUMMARY OF GROUP RESULTS 14 PENSIONS TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Accounting policy 161 Accounting policy 160 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 166 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 197 Directors pensions 128, 131, 135 TAXATION Notes to the consolidated financial statements 208 Accounting policy 161 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS 270 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 166 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 181, 213 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES 279 VALUE AT RISK VaR 89 PRESENTATION OF INFORMATION 3 VALUE OF IN-FORCE BUSINESS PROVISIONS Accounting policy 163 Accounting policy 164 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 194 Notes to the group accounts 215 VOLATILITY RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 234, 279 Insurance 52 Policyholder interests 52 Summary of Group results 22 Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com Executive producer Lora Starling Front cover photography Carol Walker www.
com Directors portraits Marcus Ginns Printed in the UK by Royle Print, a Carbon Neutral printing company, using soya based inks and water based sealants: the printer and paper manufacturing mill are both accredited with ISO 140001 Environmental Management systems standards and both are Forest Stewardship Council certied.
When you have nished with this report, please dispose of it in your recycled waste stream.
HEAD OFFICE 25 Gresham Street London EC2V 7HN Telephone 44 0 20 7626 1500 REGISTERED OFFICE The Mound Edinburgh EH1 1YZ Registered in Scotland no 95000 INTERNET www.
com REGISTRAR Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone 0871 384 2990 Textphone 0871 384 2255 Overseas 44 0 121 415 7066 www.
com ocial partner of the Olympic and Paralympic Games ANNUAL REVIEW 2010 CREATING THE UKS BEST FINANCIAL SERVICES PROVIDER We have a great Corporate responsibility We are constantly striving and our people are to build, deep, lasting platform for the future integral to our business customer relationships, and have established a strategy.
that will create value for strong financial and our customers and operational trajectory.
subsequently value for us as a business.
GROUP PROFILE LLOYDS BANKING GROUP IS A LEADING UK BASED FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP PROVIDING A WIDE RANGE OF BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES, PRIMARILY IN THE UK, TO PERSONAL AND CORPORATE CUSTOMERS.
OUR GROUP OUR DIVISIONS Lloyds Banking Group was formed in There are four primary operating divisions January 2009 following the acquisition of within the Group: Retail, Wholesale, HBOS and our main business activities are Wealth and International, and Insurance.
retail, commercial and corporate banking, Their relative contribution to the Groups total general insurance, and life, pensions and income is presented below and a more investment provision.
The new Group also detailed analysis of their strategy, business operates an international banking business and performance can be found on pages with a global footprint in over 30 countries.
The Group is the UKs largest retail bank and has a large and diversified customer base.
Insurance 8% Services are offered through a number of well recognised brands including Lloyds TSB, Halifax, Bank of Scotland, Scottish Widows, Retail 46% Wealth and Clerical Medical and Cheltenham & Gloucester, International 10% and a range of distribution channels including Contribution to Groups the largest branch network in the UK.
1 total income Lloyds Banking Group is quoted on both the London Stock Exchange and the Wholesale 36% New York Stock Exchange and is one of the largest companies within the FTSE 100.
View our Annual Report online A full version of our Annual Report and Accounts and information relating to Lloyds Banking Group is available at: www.
com 1 Excludes Group Operations, Central items and insurance claims Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 1 STRATEGY AND PERFORMANCE KEY HIGHLIGHTS The Group returned to profitability on Underlying total income increased by Capital position significantly improved a combined businesses basis with profit 3 per cent to 23,641 million, including core with core tier 1 ratio increased to 10.2 per cent, before tax of 2,212 million business income growth of 7 per cent.
primarily reflecting a reduction in risk 2009: 6,300 million loss.
weighted assets by 18 per cent to Banking net interest margin improved to 406.4 billion.
Statutory profit before tax was 281 million 2.10 per cent 2009: 1.77 per cent with the 2009: 1,042 million, including an 11,173 million majority of the gain achieved in the first half Excellent progress against term funding gain on the acquisition of HBOS : after charging of the year.
objectives with 50 billion of wholesale term integration costs of 1,653 million and other issuance in the year.
adjusting net charges of 278 million including Significant reduction in the impairment a loss on disposal of businesses of 365 million.
Impairment charge was 45 per cent Customer relationship deposits increased lower at 13,181 million 2009: 23,988 million.
by 3 per cent reflecting good growth in Loss attributable to equity shareholders was Retail and in Wealth and International.
Strong cost performance with a 6 per cent 320 million 2009: profit of 2,827 million : reduction in operating expenses Reduction in liquidity support from equivalent to a loss per share of 0.5 pence to 10,928 million.
Further improvement in the government and central bank facilities 2009: earnings per share of 7.5 pence, underlying cost:income ratio to 46.2 per cent of 61 billion to 97 billion.
after a charge for taxation of 539 million 2009: 50.7 per cent.
2009: credit of 1,911 million and a charge Given the flexibility and capacity we have for profit attributable to non-controlling Continued strong progress with the for core business growth, we continue interests of 62 million 2009: 126 million.
integration programme delivering annual to believe that the Group has strong Good trading performance against the run-rate savings of 1,379 million.
Confident medium-term prospects, notwithstanding backdrop of modest growth in UK economy.
of delivering a run-rate of 2 billion per annum the economic and regulatory headwinds by the end of 2011. that we face in 2011.
Continued active support for the UKs economic recovery by providing 30 billion Good progress on balance sheet reduction of gross mortgage lending including with cumulative non-core asset reduction remortgages and 49 billion of committed of 105 billion.
On track to meet target of gross lending to businesses, of which 11 billion 200 billion over the next three years.
OUR CORPORATE STRATEGY The Groups business model is focused on the Developing strong customer franchises that UK.
We have leading positions in many of the development of customer relationships, which are based on deep customer relationships markets in which we participate, a comprehensive are central to the strategy.
We are constantly All our core businesses are focused on distribution capability, well recognised brands striving to build deep, lasting customer extending our customer relationships, whilst and a large customer base.
We continue to relationships, that will create value for our enhancing product capabilities to build invest in products and services, systems and customers and subsequently value for us as competitive advantage.
Ensuring we training that combined offer unparalleled a business.
Customer leadership driven by understand and effectively meet the needs of choice and service to our customers.
superior customer insight, tailored products, our customers from basic banking products to We see corporate responsibility as being better service and relationship focus, supported the more specialist services such as insurance, integral to our business strategy.
We need to by industry leading efficiency and effectiveness wealth management or corporate banking is demonstrate that we are running our business and a prudent through the cycle approach to at the heart of our business.
It is also in a responsible way: and are making a risk is core to our strategy.
It is this that will enable fundamental to ensuring we are developing sustained, positive contribution to the us to deliver on our vision of being recognised as long lasting customer relationships.
economy and to society: by playing our part the best financial services company in the UK by Managing our most valuable resource, in the UKs economic recovery and by investing customers, colleagues and shareholders.
our people in the communities of which we are a part.
Our corporate strategy identifies the key Executing our strategy effectively will only be strategic deliverables required to implement possible if we ensure deliverables are the business model effectively and deliver our effectively aligned with our corporate strategy Group vision.
and we manage our most valuable resource, our people, well.
Our people have the skills The strategy is focused on being a more and capabilities to deliver the strategy but in conservative, through the cycle relationship driving performance it is important to ensure based business.
The key objectives of our we encourage, manage and develop our staff strategy are as follows.
whilst creating a great place to work.
Building a high performance organisation The main focus for the Group remains the In delivering a high performance organisation financial services markets in the UK and our the Group is focused on improving our cost strategic position was strengthened through the efficiency and utilising our capital more acquisition of HBOS in January 2009.
We are a effectively whilst maintaining a prudent well diversified UK financial services group and approach to risk.
the largest retail financial services provider in the Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 2 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We have a great platform for the future and have established a strong financial and operational trajectory.
I am confident that we will be able to grow the business further over the coming years.
My second annual statement as Chairman of mortgage and business lending commitments In 2010, the UK Government appointed The Lloyds Banking Group comes to you at the end made by the Group to the UK Government.
Independent Commission on Banking ICB of another challenging year, a year in which we to review structural measures to reform the We have also recently announced, along with have turned the corner to profitability.
In doing banking system and promote stability and four other major UK banks and in the context so, we made substantial progress towards competition.
The ICB is not expected to of an agreement with the UK Government, our creating a strong and stable bank, one better publish its final report until September 2011 intent to help support the UK economic recovery able to serve our customers.
Only by focusing although an important precursor of that will be by jointly providing the capacity to support gross on their needs and offering them products and the interim report expected to be published in new lending of 190 billion to creditworthy UK services that address those needs, can we expect April.
It would be premature for me to seek to businesses including 76 billion to small and to be successful and deliver benefit to you our predict the outcome of the enquiry: however, medium sized businesses.
As the largest UK shareholders and to our stakeholders at large.
discussions between ourselves and the ICB have focused bank, we are determined to play a full been collaborative and constructive and we will role in supporting investment by UK businesses Supporting the UKs economic recovery welcome the increased certainty that the reports and households.
Lending is one of our core recommendations should bring.
Although 2010 brought some increase in business functions and it is in our interest and global confidence and stability, the banking that of our shareholders that we make access to Our community industry continued to operate amidst responsible credit as easy as possible.
Through the financial services we provide to At the same time, as a responsible lender, we our customers and the support we give to the As we emerge from the financial crisis and the will seek to ensure that we lend to customers businesses that people work for, Lloyds Banking economic downturn, we recognise the public who can afford to repay their borrowing and to Group plays a role in the lives of nearly everyone concern surrounding the banking industry and businesses that have a fundamentally sound in the UK.
know we have much work to do as an industry business model.
These are principles to which to rebuild trust and understanding.
Our main contribution to society is the direct acknowledge the role that we at Lloyds Banking economic impact on the economy we have as Group must play in that process.
We can only Regulation a major employer and purchaser of goods and earn that trust by addressing the fundamentals, services.
This economic contribution is supported The level of industry regulation and its speed of for all our stakeholders, and by being open, by our active investment in communities change has never been greater.
Shareholders will transparent and engaged in the broader debate across the country and our community giving be aware of a number of strategic initiatives which about the role of banking in the UK.
We invested 148 million in are likely to change the shape of our industry, demonstrate that we are meeting our obligations communities across the UK in 2010 including including the changes to capital requirements to customers and society by proactively and support for financial inclusion, sponsorship of arising from Basel III and the fundamental responsibly channelling the deposits we gather sports for young people and donations through changes to the regulatory environment in the into productive enterprises and households.
UK, to highlight just a couple.
Robust and stable Banks have a central role in promoting and regulation will be an important component in Our partnership of the London 2012 Olympic and fuelling the economic recovery.
We will continue rebuilding confidence and trust and creating a Paralympic Games will bring the Games to life in to play our part in supporting UK growth by healthy and sound financial system.
However, the heart of communities all over Britain and 2011 extending a significant amount of new lending we need to ensure that banks are allowed to will be an exciting year in the countdown to 2012. to businesses and households.
We have fulfil their core purpose in delivering a smooth Since the launch of our Local Heroes programme provided nearly 80 billion of gross lending to flow of credit to the economy.
That means we have supported 600 athletes.
We have also UK homeowners and businesses in 2010 and, as meeting banks obligations to businesses, by pledged 1 billion of funding to help businesses part of our SME charter, the Group is committed helping them to invest, expand, export, innovate, benefit from London 2012 Games associated to helping 300,000 new start-up businesses by up-skill their workforce, win new contracts and opportunities.
In this way we have supported the end of 2012.
We have already helped over diversify their business models.
For individuals, one in three of all businesses who have won 100,000 such enterprises during 2010.
For the it means supporting their financial needs over London 2012 Olympic Games related contracts.
year ended 28 February 2011 we will exceed the their lifetime.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 3 Performance Remuneration Changes to the Board As an organisation, we have made considerable Following on from the unprecedented turmoil In addition to the changes previously outlined progress in 2010, delivering good growth in across the sector in 2008 and 2009, the increased during the year we have continued to strengthen our core business, returning to profitability focus on remuneration has continued into the Board both in terms of in-depth banking and reducing the risk in the business.
In the context of the evolving economic experience and broader business perspectives.
integration of the HBOS business continues environment and regulatory changes, the On 1 March 2010, two new Non-Executive to progress well and we remain confident of Remuneration Committee undertook a further Directors were appointed, Glen Moreno and achieving our target of run-rate synergy benefits review of executive remuneration in 2010.
We David Roberts, and Anita Frew joined the Board of 2 billion per annum by the end of 2011, a firmly believe that remuneration policy needs on 1 December 2010. substantial achievement.
to incentivise executives to continue strong, We are delighted that these three outstanding sustainable growth and delivery of value to In working diligently to create long term individuals have agreed to contribute their shareholders, in light of one of the biggest sustainable shareholder value we aim to restore judgement and varied expertise to our Board.
integrations ever undertaken in the sector.
The our ability to pay dividends on ordinary shares On a personal front I am also pleased that we Committee equally however is mindful of the as soon as market conditions and the financial have expanded the proportion of women on the continued heightened awareness in the public performance of the Group permit.
As you know Board and I expect that process to continue.
Both this intention is subject to the expiry in 2012 these considerations informed the Committees Dr Wolfgang Berndt retired at the annual general of the restrictions arising from the European decisions on remuneration this year and that meeting in May 2010, having joined the Board in Commissions remedies.
for Antnio Horta-Osrio, our new Group 2003.
I would like to thank him for his significant Following the recapitalisation of the banking Chief Executive.
sector, HM Treasury now holds approximately The Group is primarily a retail and commercial Our most senior management including our 40.6 per cent of the equity capital of the Group.
This means that the payout under our Group Executive Directors, have made extraordinary We are grateful and appreciative for the valuable bonus schemes for 2010 is a small percentage of efforts both in terms of their time, involvement support we have received from Government and overall revenues.
Though profitability increased and personal contribution in achieving these through it the taxpayer, but our objective remains substantially our total compensation for 2010 is results.
I thank all of them for their loyalty in for the Group over time to operate as a wholly lower than that for 2009. difficult circumstances.
privately owned self-supporting commercial enterprise.
The full particulars and background of all our Group Chief Executive Directors are set out on pages 22 and 23.
On 28 February 2011, Eric Daniels will retire People as Group Chief Executive and Director of Outlook I have enjoyed meeting many colleagues in Lloyds Banking Group plc and, in line with his various visits to our operations all over the country The successful execution of our strategy contractual commitments, will retire from the over the past year.
Gaining an on-the-spot insight demands from us focus on core markets, on Group in September 2011.
His knowledge of the into how they work to serve our stakeholders customer engagement, on cost leadership, Group and our customers will, I am pleased to by building long term relationships with our on capital efficiency and on a prudent risk and say, remain available to the Board and myself as customers and by supporting businesses has funding profile.
Carried out well these attributes required until then.
I must tell you that I have been should enable the Group to deliver earnings impressed by their desire to work together to The Board and I are grateful to Eric Daniels for growth and shareholder value whilst achieving ensure the success of our integration, by their his leadership since June 2003, particularly since our aim of becoming recognised as the best discipline and focus and by their commitment the announcement of the acquisition of HBOS financial services company in the UK.
It is clear that in our large in September 2008.
The successful integration We have a great platform for the future and have and occasionally complex Group, teamwork of the two companies and the sooner than established a strong financial and operational combined with commitment, professionalism expected return to profitability of the enlarged trajectory.
I am confident that we will be able to and hard work is the key to realising our Lloyds Banking Group are testament to his grow the business further over the coming years promises to stakeholders.
leadership during a time of unprecedented with Antnio Horta-Osrio at the helm leading financial turmoil.
It is to Erics credit that the Our people have faced a difficult year with our 112,000 colleagues a dedicated workforce Group is in a strong position for the next phase great commitment and purpose.
It is not easy and an experienced management team.
I personally have valued or pleasant to work for a group which is greatly the considerable management, banking continuously in the media headlines.
All the Sir Winfried Bischoff and organisational expertise Eric has brought to more so when the delivery of our day-to-day Chairman Lloyds Banking Group as Group Chief Executive.
banking and personal financial services are, in numerous surveys of our customers, judged to In November we announced the appointment of be at the very top or near it.
On behalf of the Antnio Horta-Osrio as the next Group Chief Board I thank our colleagues for their significant Executive.
He brings with him deep experience achievements in 2010, which from letters and in, and understanding of, the UK retail and emails I receive, are as much appreciated by our commercial banking industry, as well as a track shareholders as our customers.
record of integrating three well respected UK retail banking franchises.
Antnio joined us in January 2011 and took over as Group Chief Executive on 1 March 2011.
The Board and I look forward to working with him to ensure the success of the next stage of development of the Group, and I hope many of you will be able personally to meet him at our annual general meeting in Glasgow on Wednesday 18 May 2011.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 4 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We achieved a step change in our financial performance despite slow economic growth, returning the Group to profitability while absorbing the substantial costs of reducing risk in the business.
Summary Results overview Good franchise momentum in 2010 2010 was a good year for the Group, in which we On a combined businesses basis, the Group We have seen good momentum across our made significant progress, delivering a strong reported a 2.2 billion profit in 2010, compared to core business franchise in 2010, supported by operating performance, while strengthening the a 6.3 billion loss before tax in 2009.
Underlying the extension of our relationship strategy across business for the future.
income grew by 3 per cent to 23.6 billion, the Group, in what remain highly competitive reflecting good underlying income growth of markets.
We achieved a step change in our financial 7 per cent in our core business, partially offset by performance despite modest economic growth, In Retail, our strategy is to develop deep and a reduction of 9 per cent in our non-core business returning the Group to profitability while enduring customer relationships through offering as a result of planned asset reductions.
Operating absorbing the substantial costs of reducing risk a broad range of products addressing customers expenses fell by 6 per cent, resulting in an in the business.
While the significant decrease needs, alongside superior service and advice.
improvement in our underlying cost:income ratio in impairments was a key driver in our return to We opened 1.9 million current accounts, and over of 4.5 percentage points to 46.2 per cent.
profitability, we also saw a good performance in 5 million new savings accounts, and increased the core business where underlying income grew On a statutory basis, the Group delivered a profit customer deposits by 5 per cent in the year.
This compared In Wholesale, our commitment to supporting to a profit of 1 billion in 2009, which benefited We delivered good momentum across our core our customers through the cycle was equally from an 11.2 billion negative goodwill gain businesses through the continued development successful, and we attracted over 100,000 new associated with the purchase of HBOS.
of our customer relationship strategy, attracting start-up customers and our achievements were new customers to the Group and broadening recognised in the marketplace by the receipt of A significant reduction in the and deepening our relationships with existing a number of awards.
We see strong growth opportunities in Wealth, We achieved a significant reduction in the We also realised substantial cost savings, and we through deepening relationships with existing impairment charge, which fell 45 per cent, with are on track to deliver our target of 2 billion of Group customers and through the targeted the deterioration in some of our International run-rate cost synergies from the integration of acquisition of new customers.
In 2010, we saw businesses more than offset by a substantial HBOS by the end of 2011. encouraging early results from the development improvement in the rest of the Group, notably of our customer offerings, and we grew our UK in the Wholesale division.
We made considerable progress during the year relationship customer base by 12 per cent.
in reducing the Groups risk.
The application The considerable reductions in the Retail and of our prudent approach to restructuring of In Insurance our focus on sustainable and Wholesale impairment charges reflect the the existing book and our risk standards to all profitable growth led to a 13 per cent increase benefit of the actions we have taken over the new business is being reflected in the more in profit before tax.
While this strategy led to past two years and our ongoing effective risk predictable performance of these portfolios.
a reduction in overall sales volumes in our UK management, as well as the slowly improving We also made good progress in reducing the Life, Pensions and Investments business, as we economic environment.
While we were size of our balance sheet and substantially stopped selling a number of low return heritage disappointed by the increases in the International strengthened both our capital and funding HBOS products, this resulted in a substantial portfolios, these reflect specific economic positions.
increase in new business margin.
challenges facing Ireland, and to some degree Australia, which we are managing closely.
As a result of the significant progress we have made in 2010, Lloyds Banking Group is now a much stronger business and is well positioned to realise the potential within its franchise.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 5 Supporting the UKs economic recovery Further progress in balance sheet reductions Regulatory environment During 2010 the Group continued to support We are pleased with the progress we have made We operate in a demanding and evolving the UKs economic recovery through new lending in reducing the size of the Groups balance regulatory environment, and have continued to to our mortgage and business customers.
The sheet, with over half of our five year reduction engage actively with our regulators during the Group extended 30 billion of gross mortgage plan achieved in the first two years.
Although year on a number of proposed reforms, ensuring lending including remortgages to UK this has had an adverse effect on income, it has we have a strong and stable banking system, homeowners and supported over 50,000 resulted in a material reduction in the Groups risk which will also be able to support and serve its first time buyers.
profile, and a smaller balance sheet which brings customers and the wider economy.
We also provided 49 billion of committed Following extensive scrutiny of the Payment gross lending to UK businesses in 2010, of We have now achieved asset reductions totalling Protection Insurance PPI market in recent years, which 11 billion was for SMEs.
As part of our 105 billion in the two years since the inception the Financial Services Authority issued its final SME Charter, the Group has committed to of the programme, against our target of a policy statement on PPI complaints handling in helping 300,000 new start-up businesses by the 200 billion reduction.
The application of this policy, which end of 2012, and has already helped in excess has been challenged by the British Bankers of 100,000 such enterprises during 2010.
We Excellent progress on funding and liquidity Association in a judicial review, could in extremis continue to approve over 80 per cent of lending have a material effect on the Groups financial We made excellent progress in enhancing our applications from SME customers.
funding and liquidity position in 2010, thereby uncertain economic environment, the Group further reducing the Groups risk, albeit at some has successfully grown net lending to its core Our people incremental cost.
SME customers by 2.1 per cent, which compares I am proud of the high levels of support and We increased our deposit base by 3 per cent, favourably with the industry-wide reduction in service our staff have continued to deliver to our which, together with the reduction in the size of SME lending reported in the latest available customers over the past year, in what remains a our balance sheet, resulted in an improvement market statistics.
challenging environment, and in the context of in our loan to deposit ratio to 154 per cent the considerable changes to the Group arising As a result of our focus, we will exceed the at the end of 2010 from 169 per cent at the from the integration.
mortgage and business lending commitments 2009 year end.
made by the Group to the UK government for Their dedication is reflected in our significant In addition, we substantially exceeded our the year ended 28 February 2011. achievements in 2010, and the Board and I are guidance for term wholesale funding issuance, very appreciative of their contribution.
We have recently announced, along with four achieving 50 billion of issuance in the year.
We other major UK banks and in the context of an also continued to broaden the range of our Well positioned for future success agreement with the UK Government, our intent funding sources, and maintained the proportion to help support the UK economic recovery by of our wholesale funding with a maturity of more It has been a tremendous honour and a privilege jointly providing the capacity to support gross than one year at 50 per cent.
to lead our many talented and dedicated people new lending of 190 billion to creditworthy UK over the last eight years, and I would like to thank Term issuance during the year enabled us to businesses including 76 billion to small and my colleagues and the Board for their support materially reduce the liquidity we receive from medium sized businesses.
We are determined over this time.
I am grateful to have been given government and central bank sources, by to play a full role in supporting investment by the opportunity to create the new Group.
The 61 billion to 97 billion at the year end and we UK businesses and households.
significant progress we have made in 2010 have made further progress since then.
positions the Group well for the future to meet Integration programme on track our objective of becoming the best bank for Capital position further strengthened We continued to make good progress on the all our stakeholders, including our customers, integration of Lloyds TSB and HBOS, one of We considerably strengthened our capital shareholders and employees.
the largest and most complex programmes position in the year, positioning us well ahead of undertaken in the UK, exiting the year with runthe implementation of the Basel Committee on J Eric Daniels rate cost synergies of 1.4 billion, as expected.
Banking Supervisions so called Basel III capital Group Chief Executive We achieved savings across a wide range reforms, and changes expected to a number of of Group activities, including implementing accounting practices.
improved processes which are now being used Our core tier 1 ratio increased to 10.2 per cent, on a harmonised basis across the Group, and from 8.1 per cent at the end of 2009, substantially driving savings in property and procurement.
As in excess of regulatory requirements.
We also part of the integration, we have also commenced restructured the capital within our insurance the implementation of a number of major subsidiaries, which will deliver substantial benefits systems changes, which will complete in 2011. under the Basel III reforms.
At the year end, our Our progress in 2010 underpins our confidence tier 1 ratio was 11.6 per cent, and our total capital that we will deliver our target of 2 billion of ratio was 15.2 per cent.
annual run-rate cost synergies by the end of 2011.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 6 ADDRESSING THE KEY ISSUES The Governments shareholding As a result of the recapitalisation of the However, within the publication An Introduction: The Government has made it very clear that banking sector which included the capital Who We Are, What We Do and the Framework UK financial institutions in which it holds raisings, the Government now holds a Document Which Governs the Relationship substantial stakes will continue to operate as significant stake in Lloyds Banking Group.
Between UKFI and HM Treasury, it is stated that separate economic units with independent As at the date these accounts UKFI is to develop and execute an investment powers of decision and will continue to were approved the Governments strategy for disposing of the investments in have their own independent Boards and shareholding in Lloyds Banking Group the banks in an orderly and active way through management teams, determining their own was approximately 40.6 per cent.
This sale, redemption, buy-back or other means strategies and commercial policies including holding is managed by United Kingdom within the context of an overarching objective business plans and budgets.
Financial Investments UKFI on behalf of of protecting and creating value for the HM Treasury.
taxpayer as shareholder, paying due regard to The future the maintenance of financial stability and to Information on key areas such as when Going forward the Group is focused on acting in a way that promotes competition.
the Government may reduce their delivering strategy and subsequently value holding, how the relationship with UKFI to all our shareholders.
The Government Working relationship with UKFI operates and the impact of the holding holding does not affect this management on our strategy is outlined below.
We have a very good working relationship focus and we remain committed to operating with UKFI who act like any value orientated as a wholly privately owned, self supporting, Share disposal shareholder with regard to the strategic dividend paying, commercial enterprise development and financial performance of over time.
The timing of any share disposal will be at the the Group, providing significant constructive Governments discretion, acting on the advice challenge where they see fit.
State aid Lending to aid the economic recovery The European Commission required the An asset reduction programme to achieve a During 2010 the Group continued its Group to agree a restructuring plan as 181 billion reduction in a specified pool of policy of actively supporting the UKs a result of the investment in the Group end 2008 assets by 31 December 2014: and economic recovery through gross by HM Treasury.
The final approval new lending to our mortgage and Behavioural commitments, including of the UK Governments state aid business customers.
commitments: not to make certain measures, including the terms of the final acquisitions for approximately three to During the year, the Group extended restructuring plan, was agreed by the four years: and not to make discretionary 30 billion of gross mortgage lending College of Commissioners in November payments of coupons or to exercise including remortgages to UK homeowners 2009.
The plan consists of the following voluntary call options on hybrid securities including 5 billion in new lending to firstprincipal elements: from 31 January 2010 until 31 January 2012, time buyers and 49 billion of committed The disposal of a retail banking business which will also prevent the Group from gross lending to UK businesses of which with at least 600 branches, a 4.6 per cent paying dividends on its ordinary shares for 11 billion was for SMEs.
As part of our share of the personal current accounts the same duration.
SME Charter, the Group has committed to market in the UK and approximately helping 300,000 start-ups by 2012, and has We are making good progress against 19 per cent of the Groups mortgage already helped in excess of 100,000 new start the agreed asset reduction programme assets.
The business consists of: the TSB up businesses during 2010.
We continue and continue to make good progress in brand: the branches, savings accounts and to approve over 80 per cent of lending preparing for the disposal of the agreed retail branch based mortgages of Cheltenham & applications from SME customers.
The final cost of disposal Gloucester: the branches and branch will depend on the buyer and the extent to As a result of our focus, these actions have based customers of Lloyds TSB Scotland which substantial IT system and infrastructure allowed us to remain ahead of the mortgage and a related banking licence: additional development will be necessary.
Therefore and business lending commitments made by Lloyds TSB branches in England and the total cost is hard to predict but is likely to the Group to the Government for the year Wales, with branch based customers: and, be substantial.
These disposals need The assets and liabilities, and associated to be made within four years of the date of income and expenses, of the business to State Aid approval, so by November 2013. be divested referred to above cannot be determined with precision until nearer the date of sale.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 7 Group integration Independent Commission on Banking We have now completed the second The Independent Commission on The Commission will also have regard to year of our three year integration Banking ICB was established by the the Governments wider goals of financial programme following the acquisition of Government in June 2010 to examine stability and creating an efficient, open, HBOS and remain on target to deliver the banking sector and to make robust and diverse banking sector, with annualised cost savings from synergies recommendations on structural and specific attention paid to the potential and other operating efficiencies of related non-structural measures to impact of its recommendations on: 2 billion by the end of 2011.
Substantial promote stability and competition in Financial stability: wide-ranging progress has been made the banking sector.
during 2010, including: Lending to UK consumers and businesses The Commission will make and the pace of economic recovery: Rollout of the Lloyds TSB branch counter recommendations covering both: system and processes to the Halifax and Consumer choice: Structural measures to reform the banking Bank of Scotland branches completes system and promote stability and competition, The competitiveness of the UK financial March 2011. including the complex issue of separating and professional services sectors and the Migration of 3,700 Halifax and retail and investment banking functions: wider UK economy: and Bank of Scotland ATMs to the Lloyds TSB and Risks to the fiscal position of the Government platform completes April 2011.
Related non-structural measures to The Commission will produce a final report Implementation of a single mortgage sales promote stability and competition in for the Cabinet Committee on Banking, platform across core mortgage brands banking for the benefit of consumers by the end of September 2011, having underway.
completed its evidence gathering phase Development and implementation of a fully In considering these measures the at the end of January 2011.
The written scaled single IT platform which will support Commission will have regard to the legal and responses which the ICB have received at this the Group.
operational requirements of implementing stage have been published on its website.
the options under consideration, and The Groups response can also be found on Single bancassurance sales system the importance of generating practical our website, www.
and unified set of products delivered.
It will also take into account We believe the Groups through the cycle Bank of Scotland and Lloyds TSB wealth the findings of ongoing EU and international relationship based strategy is consistent with management functions brought together work, and inform the UK Governments the aims of the Commission but at this time to form one wealth management team.
approach to international discussions on it is not possible to gauge the impact of the the financial system.
Contract Hire fleet businesses are being review on the Group.
We have cooperated brought together onto a single platform.
fully with the ICB to date and are expecting their options paper, which will set out their Following a review of the business, we initial thoughts on potential reform, during completed our strategic exit from Ireland April 2011.
Following its publication, there by the end of 2010, including the closure of will be a further period of consultation during 44 Bank of Scotland Ireland branches.
which the Group will continue to be at the Completion of the legal transfer of our forefront of the debate with the ICB.
businesses in Spain to form one integrated business serving both local and international communities.
Wholesale Markets Corporate business now trading under the Lloyds Bank brand.
Dividend payments to shareholders Procurement benefits of 236 million achieved in year.
Over 90 per cent of Group expenditure consolidated within our top The recent financial position of the Group along with the behavioural commitments 1,000 suppliers.
we entered into as part of the State Aid Restructuring Plan have prevented us paying 79 non-branch properties exited, bringing dividends on our ordinary shares.
the total to 162 since the start of the We fully understand the hardship that the lack of dividend has caused many of our programme.
shareholders, and we are working diligently to restore the ability to pay dividends and create shareholder value.
The Board intends to resume dividend payments on ordinary shares as soon as market conditions and the financial performance of the Group permit, subject to the expiry, in 2012, of the restrictions on paying dividends arising from the European Commissions remedies.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 8 DIVISIONAL REVIEW Performance overview 24 RETAIL PROFILE STRATEGY SUMMARY 2010 HIGHLIGHTS Retail operates the largest retail bank Retails goal is to be recognised by customers Profit before tax increased to 4,716 million.
in the UK and is the leading provider of as the UKs best bank.
This will be achieved by Profit before tax and fair value unwind current accounts, savings, personal loans, building deep and enduring customer increased to 3,611 million, driven by good credit cards and mortgages.
With its strong relationships which deliver real value to income growth, tight cost control and a stable of brands including Lloyds TSB, customers.
Retail believes this strategy will drive significantly lower impairment charge.
Halifax, Bank of Scotland and Cheltenham sustainable long term value for all stakeholders.
& Gloucester, it serves over 30 million A deep understanding of customers and their Net interest income increased by 18 per cent customers through one of the largest branch needs combined with highly efficient and to 9,378 million, largely as a result of the and fee free ATM networks in the UK.
effective processes will allow more investment continuing re-pricing of risk, mortgage customers in products and services that customers really moving onto standard variable rates and a Retail is focused on effectively meeting the value.
Retail is increasing its capabilities through decrease in the LIBOR to Base Rate spread.
The division has over the integration of Lloyds TSB and HBOS which 22 million current account customers and Other income decreased by 197 million presents a great opportunity to use the best provides social banking to over four million or 11 per cent to 1,607 million, relating from each heritage and significantly improve people through basic banking or social banking particularly to changes to current account systems and processes.
It is also the largest provider of overdraft structures.
Lloyds TSBs strong customer insight capabilities personal loans in the UK, as well as being the to Halifax and Bank of Scotland.
Success for Operating expenses remain tightly UKs leading credit card issuer.
Retail provides Retail will be reflected in enhanced customer controlled, increasing by only 2 per cent to over one in five new residential mortgages service resulting in strong customer advocacy 4,644 million, and benefited from continuing making it one of the leading UK mortgage which in turn leads to lower customer acquisition cost control as well as integration synergies.
lenders and provided over 50,000 mortgages to costs, increased share of wallet and improved help first time buyers in 2010.
Retail is the largest The impairment charge reduced significantly to customer retention.
private sector savings provider in the UK.
It is 2,747 million, down by 35 per cent, supported by also a major general insurance and prudent risk management, a stabilising economy, bancassurance distributor, offering a wide range broadly stable house prices and low interest rates.
of long-term savings, investment and general Loans and advances to customers decreased insurance products.
by 7.4 billion, or 2 per cent to 363.7 billion, as customers continued to reduce their personal indebtedness, particularly unsecured debt.
While mortgage balances declined by 3.8 billion, Retail continued to support first time buyers and home movers with gross mortgage lending of 30 billion.
Customer deposits increased by 11.5 billion, or 5 per cent, to 235.6 billion, predominantly from instant access and tax free ISA accounts rather than more expensive term deposits.
Retail continues to work at responding rapidly to customer demands.
For example, during the disruption from the volcanic ash clouds, Retail took a series of actions to help customers who had been affected.
This included extending overdrafts and credit card limits to enable customers to make alternative travel arrangements as well as waiving the fees for credit and debit card customers who went over their limit due to the disruption.
In addition cover on a range of insurance policies was extended and in the space of 48 hours, 6 million text messages were sent to insurance customers to advise them of the help Retail could provide.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 9 OPERATING BRANDS An example of this is the recently launched Retail continues to work Halifax Cash ISA Promise.
In the month following the launch in October 2010 the ISA to deliver products and business performed significantly ahead of services that address expectations with 44,000 accounts transferred, despite the launch being outside of the customer needs.
This industry leading promise addresses the poor transfer times between ISA providers, by promising to pay interest on new cash ISAs from the completed application date rather than when funds are transferred into the account, often weeks later.
The other parts of the promise are increased information on cash ISA interest rates and an assurance that all cash ISAs are open to both new and existing customers.
Retail has been playing an active role in the community as part of its preparations for London 2012.
During National School Sport Week in 2010, 5 million children at 14,000 schools participated supported by 1,000 colleague volunteers.
Retail has also played an active role in developing future stars of Team GB and ParalympicsGB with the Local Heroes programme.
By 2012 the programme will have supported more than 1,000 emerging athletes on their journey to London 2012 and beyond.
Left: Olympic Gold medallist Denise Lewis takes to the water with Cardiff schoolchildren during Lloyds TSB National School Sport Week 2010.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 10 DIVISIONAL REVIEW Performance overview 24 WHOLESALE PROFILE STRATEGY SUMMARY 2010 HIGHLIGHTS The Wholesale division serves in excess of Wholesales strategic goal is to be recognised Profit before tax was 3,257 million.
a million businesses, ranging from start-ups as the UKs leading, through-the-cycle, Profit before tax and fair value unwind was and small enterprises to global corporations, relationship-focused wholesale bank.
127 million, a 11,727 million improvement with a range of propositions fully segmented The mission is to retain and deepen on 2009, primarily reflecting the significant according to customer need.
The division recurring, multi-product customer relationships decrease in the level of impairment charge.
comprises Corporate Markets, Treasury and building on deep insight into customer needs Trading and Asset Finance.
to provide a broad range of banking, risk Net interest income decreased by 6 per cent management and capital market products.
This decrease reflected the Corporate Markets comprises Commercial, lower interest earning asset balances, in-line Corporate, Wholesale Markets, Wholesale Equity with targeted balance sheet reductions and and Corporate Real Estate Business Support lower net interest income in Treasury and Unit.
Commercial and Corporate provide Trading.
relationship-based banking, risk management and advisory services to business customers, Other income decreased marginally to principally in the UK.
risk management solutions, specialised lending, Operating expenses decreased 9 per cent, access to capital markets and multi-product reflecting reduced levels of operating lease financing solutions to its customers, whilst depreciation and further cost savings achieved managing the Groups own portfolio of structured from the integration programme.
credit investments and treasury assets.
Wholesale Equity manages the divisions equity investment Impairment charges on financial assets holdings including Lloyds Development Capital.
Corporate Real Estate Business Support Unit The total impairment charge continues to be manages relationships with commercial real driven from the HBOS heritage real estate and estate customers facing financial difficulties.
real estate related asset portfolios.
Treasury and Tradings role is to provide access Assets decreased by 14 per cent.
to financial markets in order to meet the Groups The decrease reflects the targeted reduction in balance sheet management requirements, the balance sheet, mainly in loans and advances and provides trading infrastructure to support to customers and banks in non-core business execution of customer-driven risk management and through reductions in debt securities and transactions, whilst operating within a well available-for-sale positions.
controlled and conservative risk appetite.
Customer deposits decreased 3 per cent to Asset Finance consists of a number of leasing and 114.1 billion due to a reduction in short-term speciality lending businesses including Contract deposits in Treasury and Trading.
Hire Lex Autolease and Hill Hire and Consumer Finance Black Horse Motor and Personal Finance.
Actively helping our customers to recognise the risks and to seize the opportunities from a low carbon, more resource efficient economy.
We know climate change regulation, commodity prices, supply chain greening and operational efficiency to name a few are important issues to our customers, who are increasingly seeing the impact themselves and developing sustainable business models.
We are training our customer-facing areas of Wholesale and now boast a network of over 400 skilled partners trained in the science, policy, business risks and opportunities associated with the emerging green economy.
We are also a leading provider in the renewable energy sector, having been involved in the arranging and underwriting of eight transactions with a combined value of 1.25 billion of which we provided 275 million during 2010.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 11 OPERATING BRANDS Working closely with, and building stronger links with business in the community organisations The relationship between Business in the Community, Scottish Business in the Community and the Groups Wholesale division has gone from strength to strength since its creation in early 2010.
Our Day to Make A Difference programme gives all staff the chance to spend one day in the year volunteering for a charity or local community project of their choice.
As a result of this, since April 2010 we have seen 18 per cent 3,200 of Wholesale colleagues invest 2,800 days 19,000 hours through their engagement and support of over 110 local community groups throughout 25 regions in the UK.
Left: Colleagues from our Wholesale division used their volunteering day to carry out essential maintenance work at Oasis Childrens Venture in London, October 2010.
The Group has committed to helping Continuing to provide 300,000 new businesses by 2012 and supported more than 100,000 start-ups support to SMEs in 2010. through our awardWe have a strong focus on lending in deprived areas and are supporting over 28,000 small winning SME Charter.
business customers in the 5 per cent of the During 2010 we delivered over 250 events UK classified as most deprived.
to provide expert guidance for SMEs the These are all reasons that contributed to the backbone of the UK economic recovery Bank being named Bank of the Year 2010 on starting up, employment law, exporting, for the sixth year running at the FDs bidding for London 2012 contracts, Excellence Awards.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 12 DIVISIONAL REVIEW Performance overview 24 WEALTH AND INTERNATIONAL PROFILE STRATEGY SUMMARY 2010 HIGHLIGHTS Wealth and International was formed in 2009 Wealth provides strong growth opportunities Loss before tax increased to 4,824 million.
to give increased focus and momentum to for the Group and, through deepening the Loss before tax and fair value unwind the private banking and asset management relationships with existing Group clients increased to 5,196 million, due to a higher businesses and to manage the Groups alongside targeted external customer impairment charge, predominantly in Ireland.
acquisition, Wealths goal is to be recognised as the trusted adviser to expatriate and private In Wealth, profit before tax increased by The Wealth business comprises private banking clients both in the UK and selected 36 per cent to 269 million.
However, this was banking, wealth management and asset international markets.
Wealths initial focus in more than offset by the International loss.
Wealths global private banking the UK is to increase the penetration of its and wealth management operations cater to Net interest income decreased by 3 per cent offering into the Groups existing customer the full range of wealth clients from affluent to to 1,176 million.
base by the referral of wealthier customers to Ultra High Net Worth within the UK, Channel its private banking businesses where their wider Operating expenses decreased by 1 per cent Islands and Isle of Man, and internationally.
financial needs can be more effectively met.
Our private banking and wealth management Outside the UK, Wealth will be building on business operates under the Lloyds TSB and The impairment charge amounted to the strengths of its brand portfolio and existing Bank of Scotland brands.
Our asset management 5,988 million, reflecting the material expatriate, wealth management and private business, Scottish Widows Investment deterioration in the economic environment in banking propositions.
Partnership, has a broad client base, managing Ireland in the last quarter of 2010. assets for Lloyds Banking Group customers In the International businesses, the priority Loans and advances to customers decreased as well as a wide range of clients including is to maximise value in the medium term.
by 8.2 billion, to 55.3 billion, reflecting net pension funds, charities, local authorities, Internationals immediate focus is on close repayments of 4.1 billion, and additional Discretionary Managers and Financial Advisers.
management of the lending portfolio, impairment provisions in the International In addition, the Group holds a 60 per cent stake particularly in the Irish business, and re-pricing businesses.
in St Jamess Place, the UKs largest independent assets where appropriate.
At the same time listed wealth manager and a 55 per cent stake in International is delivering operational Customer deposits increased by 13 per cent, Invista Real Estate.
efficiencies, reshaping its business models to 32.8 billion, due to strong inflows in UK and rightsizing the balance sheet to reflect Private Banking and Bank of Scotland Germany, The International business comprises the Groups the ongoing environment.
partly offset by outflows in Ireland following the other international banking businesses outside closure of the Irish retail branch network.
the UK, with the exception of corporate business in North America which is managed through the Groups Wholesale division.
These largely comprise corporate, commercial and asset finance business in Australia, Ireland and Continental Europe and retail businesses in Germany and the Netherlands.
Offering our clients a wealth of specialised solutions.
A key focus for Wealth and International is to ensure our customers across the Group have the opportunity to talk to us about their financial needs beyond everyday banking services including the range of Wealth and Private Banking solutions we offer in Lloyds Banking Group.
Referrals from Corporate Banking to our Wealth businesses increased by 39 per cent in 2010 compared with the same period the year before.
And those clients are investing more with us with assets under supervision from these clients increasing by 970 per cent in the same period.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 13 OPERATING BRANDS Lloyds TSB SWIP continues its focus on sustainability As one of the largest institutional investors in the UK, SWIP is continuing to develop its approach to sustainability across all areas of investment.
One area where this can be demonstrated is in SWIPs Real Estate business.
SWIPs Real Estate team manages over 6 billion in property assets and believes delivering superior investment returns is entirely compatible with managing real estate in a sustainable, environmentally and socially responsible manner.
It is SWIPs intention to reduce landlord-controlled energy use by 10 per cent and water by 6 per cent, between 2009 and 2012.
An example of this in action is a recently completed central London SWIP development that put sustainability at the forefront of its design.
Not only did sustainability determine the design, procurement, construction and future maintenance of the building, but it also means the building boasts a bio-diversity roof complete with nesting boxes for swifts, redstarts and bats.
Supporting our international communities Over and above supporting the Groups charity partnership, businesses across Wealth and International are also committed to supporting charities within the local international communities we operate in.
In Australia, we established the Black Horse Foundation in 2006, an independent company working with charitable and not-for-profit organisations across the country and focused on three giving activities grants, fundraising and volunteering.
In Geneva, we work closely with the Smiling Children Foundation, in Dubai the team spent time in 2010 raising funds for the Dubai Autism Centre and, in the Isle of Man, Breakthrough Breast Cancer was a real focus for colleague fundraising, among other charitable organisations.
Left: Colleagues volunteer their time at a women and childrens homeless shelter in Australia.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 14 DIVISIONAL REVIEW Performance overview 24 INSURANCE PROFILE STRATEGY SUMMARY 2010 HIGHLIGHTS The Insurance division provides long The Insurance divisions strategic vision is to be Profit before tax increased by 13 per cent to term savings, protection and investment recognised as the leading insurance business 1,102 million.
products and general insurance products by its customers, the Groups shareholders and Profit before tax and fair value unwind to customers in the UK and Europe and staff.
increased by 19 per cent, to 1,215 million.
consists of three business units: The division has four strategic objectives to Total income, net of insurance claims Life, Pensions and Investments UK LP&I UK : achieve its vision: complete the integration of its decreased by 11 million to 2,009 million, The UK Life, Pensions and Investments business businesses: continue to strengthen its leading primarily reflecting lower PPI income and claims is the leading bancassurance provider in the brands and grow sales profitably in its targeted arising from the freeze events in 2010, which are UK and has one of the largest intermediary markets: enhance the capital management offset by reduced payment protection insurance channels in the industry.
The business provides and operational efficiency of existing and future claims and improved investment markets.
long-term savings, protection and investment business: and utilise the Groups strengths in products distributed through the bancassurance, distribution and asset management.
Operating expenses decreased by 12 intermediary and direct channels through the per cent to 854 million due to a continued Lloyds TSB, Halifax, Bank of Scotland and focus on cost management and delivery of Scottish Widows brands.
Life, Pensions and Investments Europe: Good progress continues to be made on The European Life, Pensions and Investments integration, including the launch of a single business distributes products primarily in the bancassurance proposition in June 2010.
German market under the Heidelberger Leben LP&I UK sales of 10,316 million PVNBP and Clerical Medical brands.
reduced by 20 per cent largely due to the General Insurance: The General Insurance withdrawal of certain lower return HBOS legacy business is a leading distributor of home products as the business continued to focus on insurance in the UK, with products sold through value over volume and a change in mix towards the branch network, direct channels and protection products.
The business LP&I UK margins increased to 3.7 per cent also has significant brokerage operations for from 2.6 per cent in 2009.
The improved personal and commercial insurances.
It operates margin reflects strategic choices made in primarily under the Lloyds TSB, Halifax and respect of product and channel propositions Bank of Scotland brands.
as the legacy businesses are integrated in order to focus on value.
General Insurance profits increased by 1 per cent to 372 million.
An award-winning Life, Pensions & Investments provider Scottish Widows won or was commended for its performance in no fewer than 17 prestigious awards throughout 2010.
Key accolades included Five Star ratings in the Life & Pension and Investment categories in the 2010 Financial Adviser Service Awards.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 15 OPERATING BRANDS Picture includes Scottish Widows Ambassadors The Official Pensions for the London 2012 Games Roger Black MBE and Sarah Storey OBE and Investment Provider of the London 2012 Games.
As one of UKs leading financial organisations, at Scottish Widows, we have been helping customers prepare for the future since 1815.
We understand the sacrifice young athletes have to make to realise their potential to become the best.
We also understand that no athlete can stand behind the start line at a London 2012 Games final if they arent prepared.
As part of the Scottish Widows Golden Hopefuls Programme, we are helping to prepare four of Britains up and coming athletes Ali Jawad, Toni Prince, James McLean and Callum Skinner for the next two years on their journey to the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
Right: Picture includes Scottish Widows Ambassadors for the London 2012 Games Roger Black MBE and Sarah Storey OBE.
Halifax Home Insurance is one of just a few Supporting our insurers who have in-house Personal Claims Consultants.
This approach has proven so customers when successful it has also been rolled out across they need it most Lloyds TSB Home Insurance in 2010.
Over 100 of our customers were forced to abandon their homes following the Cockermouth flooding disaster which hit Cumbria at the end of 2009.
Thanks to our Personal Claims Consultants we had all of our customers back in their homes within 12 months.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 16 OUR PEOPLE Building long lasting relationships Colleague engagement Retail Customer Service Training through people In 2010, we achieved record response rates Lloyds Banking Groups continued success of 83 per cent in our quarterly colleague depends on our people.
Our employees are engagement survey, regarded as best in class.
focused on providing our customers with great The Engagement Index finished the year at 80 service they know that successful relationships index points, an increase of 8 points on 2009. are at the heart of how we do business and how Our level of engagement now exceeds all we support our customers through the cycle.
We are creating an organisation that attracts, retains and develops the best talent in the Talent, recruitment and retention industry.
We want to be recognised as a great A major focus in 2010 has been recruiting, place to work.
retaining and developing talented people to support our strategy.
Through detailed talent In 2010 we harmonised Terms and Conditions A key focus for training across Retail has been the reviews, succession planning, internal promotion for most employees in the Group.
Over 87,000 transformation of our approach in handling customer complaints.
This has resulted in over 30,000 customer facing and attracting new talent, we have improved the employees selected benefits through our colleagues receiving training across Lloyds TSB, Halifax and talent profile and succession pipeline.
Over 52,000 showed Bank of Scotland Branch Networks.
The key purpose of this their confidence in the Group by participating training was to improve the experience for customers when In 2010 we recruited 147 people into our advising us of a complaint this included colleagues taking in Sharesave.
Our new pension scheme, Your Graduate Leadership Programme, the strength ownership of each complaint at first point of contact, accurate Tomorrow, was awarded the Pension Quality recording and effective and timely resolution.
A blend of which has been acknowledged with The Times Mark Plus - the highest quality mark available of training approaches was adopted including e-learning, rating us in the Top 30 UK Graduate Employers.
testing, validation and face to face sessions supported by from the National Association of Pension Funds.
This programme has resulted in a significant improvement in the Performance and reward We are committed to professional development number of complaints resolved at first point of contact and is and creating outstanding learning opportunities having a positive impact on our Customer Service measures.
Effective performance management is critical that allow people to reach their full potential.
in building a high performance culture and Learning @ Lloyds Banking Group is one of the developing our colleagues to build long term Diversity and inclusion largest corporate learning facilities in Europe.
Every colleague 2010 saw the launch of the new Diversity and has a Balanced Scorecard comprising of five Our sponsorship of London 2012 offers Inclusion strategy.
We made significant measures: building the business, customer, risk, employees a unique opportunity to be involved progress through the appointment of five people and finance.
Objectives are aligned to both in the Games and the legacy they leave.
executive director sponsors covering gender our broader strategy and how well a colleague and work life balance, ethnic diversity, sexual meets these objectives results in an individual Integration orientation, disability and generational diversity.
This rating links directly to 2010 was significant in relation to people In reviewing our resourcing, work life balance how a colleague is rewarded.
By 1st December 85 per cent and leadership development practices, we of eligible colleagues were on the newly In 2010 we launched a single approach to attract, recruit and retain talented colleagues harmonised Terms and Conditions.
performance management across Lloyds Banking from diverse backgrounds.
In 2010 our Group, the success of which was acknowledged employees had the opportunity to learn more Inevitably in bringing the two organisations at the 2010 Personnel Today Awards at which we about our progress through our first national together, there has been an opportunity to received the top award for Managing Change.
rationalise and this has led to a reduction in roles.
Our aim has always been, where possible, Lea r ning and development HR people risk to either redeploy people to other areas of In 2010 we continued to invest in the the Group or reduce numbers through natural In 2010 we established a People Risk function development of colleagues across the attrition.
Compulsory redundancies are always within Group HR, with the aim of ensuring that organisation providing an average of 5.4 days a last resort.
the management of people risks are central to formal learning per full time equivalent FTE.
the development and delivery of the Groups We implemented a number of integrated business strategy.
We have built people risk Our learning strategy is aligned to our goal of Lloyds Banking Group platforms for colleagues management into our overall accountability outperformance through cost and customer in 2010. framework including our Group Risk Appetite leadership.
We aim to drive high performance, We launched Your Performance providing a and People Strategy.
An early priority of the achieve greater productivity and deep lasting Group-wide online performance management People Risk function has been to provide customer relationships by encouraging the system, and Your Learning, an integrated tool guidance on moderation of pay and bonuses in development of highly engaged and skilled helping colleagues develop learning plans.
Your compliance with the FSAs Remuneration Code.
Tomorrow, the first Group Defined Contribution As we enter the final year of our integration We continued to employ our Academies pension scheme launched in 2010.
We also programme, we continue to make excellent approach supported by a redesigned completed development of an integrated progress towards becoming One Bank.
We will Learning @ Lloyds Banking Group website, Pay & Bonus tool, aligned directly with go on building a diverse, talented and engaged attracting around 1.7 million visits per month.
The Resourcing workforce and equipping it with the skills it needs Candidate Management System provides the to provide the best customer service.
Group with one internal recruitment tool and one external careers website.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 17 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Supporting our business strategy Our economic and social impact Save the Children our Charity of the Year Our business strategy is to be recognised as the Supporting the UKs economic recovery UKs best financial services company.
Trust in As a UK-focused bank, we have an important role the banking industry has been eroded over the to play in supporting the UKs economic recovery.
Rebuilding stakeholders trust in In 2010, we extended 79 billion of new lending financial institutions will be central to us achieving to homeowners and businesses.
The vast majority our goal.
of this lending was conducted in the UK.
Corporate responsibility is integral to our We extended 30 billion of gross mortgage business strategy.
We need to ensure that we lending to homeowners, including more than are running our business in a responsible way.
5 billion in new lending to first time buyers.
Lloyds Banking Groups Charity of the Year for 2011 is Save the We need to demonstrate that we are making a We also extended 49 billion of committed Children.
Working together we aim to raise at least 1 million sustained, positive contribution to the economy gross lending to UK businesses.
We approve to fund 52 Save the Children Families and Schools Together and to society.
As a relationship-led business, over 80 per cent of lending applications from FAST projects in some of the UKs most disadvantaged communities.
FAST is a unique programme that works with we need to focus on building deep and lasting small and medium sized enterprises SMEs, and threeto-five year olds and their families to ensure that relationships with our stakeholders: by engaging helped more than 100,000 new business children get the best possible start to their school life.
with them, listening to their needs and, if start ups last year.
appropriate, making changes to the way we do We actively participate in all the main Building relationships business.
Government financial initiatives aimed at helping As a bank, we have long term, sometimes customers enter the housing market, and helping Responsible business management lifelong, relationships with our customers.
We are one of Ensuring we maintain and build customers trust Corporate responsibility governance the most active lenders under the Governments is core to the sustainability of our business.
We strengthened our governance framework in Enterprise Finance Guarantee Scheme, offering 2010, establishing Board representatives for key 30 per cent of total loans granted.
Listening to our customers strands of our corporate responsibility agenda: Every month we contact 75,000 customers as Sir Winfried Bischoff for Corporate Responsibility: Financial inclusion & capability part of a systematic customer-feedback process.
Helen Weir for Financial Inclusion and Truett Tate We have dedicated products and services that We listen carefully to what our customers tell for Climate Change and Environmental Issues.
With over four million us, both good and bad, and use this to make We also established new Financial Inclusion and accounts, we are the UKs biggest provider of changes where necessary.
Often, we learn about Environmental Steering Groups to drive our social bank accounts.
We are also the only major the small things that cause irritation to customers.
UK bank to offer social banking customers a By listening to customers, we can quickly put bespoke Christmas savings account, the Halifax things right.
Responsible lending, advice and support Christmas Saver.
As a responsible lender, we aim to ensure We launched Money for Life in 2010, our new Addressing customers complaints customers only borrow what they can afford 4 million financial capability programme for the The vast majority of our customers are happy to repay.
We only offer loans and credit cards further education sector.
The programme aims with the service we provide.
When we do receive after carefully assessing customers financial to develop the capacity of the sector to improve complaints, we ensure that they are dealt with circumstances and regularly check that the financial capability and personal money fairly, quickly and consistently.
We now resolve their borrowing remains suitable to their management skills of the 3 million people it 90 per cent of complaints at first touch with the circumstances.
We speak to more than serves.
support of our new Phone a Friend complaints 300,000 customers a month to assess their resolution team.
However, we know we have to financial health and find ways to help.
We have Community investment work hard to reduce the number of complaints trained over 7,000 financial health specialists Our economic contribution to society is we receive in the first place.
to help customers in our branches.
We also supported by our active investment in the contributed 12.5 million in 2010 to the financial communities in which we operate.
We invested Delivering innovative products and services advice sector.
148 million in communities across the UK in We work hard to introduce new and innovative 2010, including support for financial inclusion and products that respond to customers evolving Environmental management social banking, sponsorship of sports for young needs.
We launched a number of market-leading We believe that we have an important role to people and donations through the Groups products in 2010, including the Halifax Cash ISA play in facilitating and financing the transition to charitable Foundations.
Promise which enables all customers switching a low carbon, resource efficient economy.
We their existing cash ISA to Halifax, to earn interest were rated the top UK bank in the new FTSE CDP In 2010, the Foundations received more than from the first day that we receive their completed Carbon Strategy Index Series in 2010, recognising 29 million to distribute to charities across the transfer form.
our performance in managing climate risks and UK.
In the current economic climate, when grasping emerging opportunities.
charities are finding it difficult to attract funding, Summary the Foundations are helping many charities to In 2010, we launched Smart and Responsible, survive.
We raised over 3.4 million for the British We realise that it will take time to rebuild trust our new targeted environmental action plan Heart Foundation, our Charity of the Year from in the sector and we are committed to leading which aims to deliver significant environmental July 2008 to December 2010.
We need to continue to engage in and cost savings.
for Save the Children as our Charity of the Year open conversations with our key stakeholders We also registered for the Carbon Reduction for 2011. and demonstrate how we are listening to their Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme and needs.
Over time, we believe that this will will now be required to purchase allowances enable us to deliver superior, more sustainable for each tonne of energy-related CO2 we emit, shareholder value.
providing a further incentive to reduce our carbon emissions.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 18 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 2010 2009 For the year ended 31 December 2010 million million Net interest income 12,546 9,026 Other income 30,921 36,271 Total income 43,467 45,297 Insurance claims 18,511 22,019 Total income, net of insurance claims 24,956 23,278 Operating expenses 13,270 15,984 Trading surplus 11,686 7,294 Impairment 10,952 16,673 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 88 752 Gain on acquisition 11,173 Loss on disposal of businesses 365 Profit before tax 281 1,042 Taxation 539 1,911 Loss profit for the year 258 2,953 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 62 126 Loss profit attributable to equity shareholders 320 2,827 Loss profit for the year 258 2,953 Basic earnings per share 0.5 p 7.5p Diluted earnings per share 0.5 p 7.5p Total dividend per share for the year Total dividend for the year 000 000 Directors emoluments 10,641 9,900 The Groups income statement includes substantial amounts of income and expenditure attributable to the policyholders of the Groups long-term assurance funds, which are consolidated in order to meet the requirements of accounting standards.
These amounts are volatile and can cause significant variations in total income and insurance claims: however they have no overall effect upon profit attributable to equity shareholders over the long term.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 19 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 2010 2009 At 31 December 2010 million million Assets Cash and balances at central banks 38,115 38,994 Derivatives, trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit and loss 206,968 199,939 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to customers 592,597 626,969 Loans and advances to banks 30,272 35,361 Debt securities 25,735 32,652 648,604 694,982 Available-for-sale financial assets 42,955 46,602 Held-to-maturity investments 7,905 Investment properties 5,997 4,757 Intangible assets, including goodwill, and the value of in-force business 12,879 12,788 Tangible fixed assets 8,190 9,224 Retirement benefit assets 736 Other assets 19,225 19,969 Total assets 991,574 1,027,255 Liabilities Deposits from banks 50,363 82,452 Customer deposits 393,633 406,741 Derivatives, trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 68,920 68,756 Debt securities in issue 228,866 233,502 Insurance liabilities 81,372 77,261 Liabilities to customers under non-participating investment contracts 51,363 46,348 Other liabilities 33,500 32,581 Retirement benefit obligations 423 780 Subordinated liabilities 36,232 34,727 Total liabilities 944,672 983,148 Shareholders equity 46,061 43,278 Non-controlling interests 841 829 Total equity 46,902 44,107 Total equity and liabilities 991,574 1,027,255 The summary financial statement, comprising the summary consolidated income statement on page 18, the summary consolidated balance sheet on page 19 and the directors remuneration commentary on page 21 was approved by the directors on 24 February 2011.
Sir Winfried Bischoff J Eric Daniels Tim J W Tookey Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 20 REPORTS ON THE ACCOUNTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT TO THE MEMBERS AUDITORS REPORT OF LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC ON FULL ACCOUNTS SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT We have examined the summary financial statement, The auditors reports on the full accounts for the The Company is a holding company and its which comprises the summary consolidated income year ended 31 December 2010 were unqualified subsidiary undertakings provide a wide range of statement on page 18, the summary consolidated and did not include a statement under sections banking and financial services through branches and balance sheet on page 19, the summary directors 498 2 accounting records or returns inadequate or offices in the UK and overseas.
report on page 20 and the directors remuneration accounts not agreeing with records and returns or A review of the business and an indication of future commentary on page 21.
498 3 failure to obtain necessary information and developments are given on the inside front cover, explanations of the UK Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of Directors addition, the auditors statement under section 496 and Auditors was unqualified.
Biographical details of Directors are shown on pages 22 and 23.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual review in accordance with applicable Changes to the composition of the Board since United Kingdom law.
1 January 2010 are shown below: Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on Dr W C G Berndt retired from the Board on the consistency of the summary financial statement 6 May 2010.
Mr G R Moreno and Mr D L Roberts within the annual review with the annual financial joined the Board on 1 March 2010 and Ms A M Frew statements, the directors report, and the directors joined the Board on 1 December 2010. remuneration report, and its compliance with Mr A Horta-Osrio joined the Board on 17 January the relevant requirements of section 428 of the 2011.
Mr J E Daniels will retire from the Board on Companies Act 2006 and the regulations made 28 February 2011 and will be succeeded as thereunder.
Group Chief Executive by Mr A Horta-Osrio on We also read the other information contained in 1 March 2011. the annual review and consider the implications for Ms A M Frew and Mr A Horta-Osrio were our statement if we become aware of any apparent appointed to the Board after the annual general misstatements or material inconsistencies with the meeting held in 2010 and will therefore stand for summary financial statement and the corporate election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
governance statement and the other items listed on the contents page.
Under the articles of association, Sir Julian Horn-Smith and Mr G T Tate are required to retire from the This statement, including the opinion, has been Board at the annual general meeting.
However, in prepared for and only for the Companys members the interests of good corporate governance and in as a body in accordance with section 428 of the accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
Governance Code, effective from 2012, the Board We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume has decided that all of the Directors will retire responsibility for any other purpose or to any other voluntarily and submit themselves for re-election at person to whom this statement is shown or into the annual general meeting.
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Particulars of the Directors interests in shares in the Company and detailed information about share We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin capital and change of control are shown in the full 2008 3 issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our reports on the Companys full annual financial statements describe the basis of our audit opinions on those financial statements, the directors report.
and the directors remuneration report.
Opinion In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual financial statements, the directors report and the directors remuneration report of Lloyds Banking Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006, and the regulations made thereunder.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Edinburgh 24 February 2011 a The maintenance and integrity of the Lloyds Banking Group website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occured to the full annual financial statements or the summary financial statement since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 21 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Full details of the Groups remuneration policy for directors as well as details SUMMARY OF EMOLUMENTS PAID TO DIRECTORS of their remuneration in 2010 appear in the Directors remuneration report in 2010 2009 000 000 the full report and accounts.
This may be seen in the Investors section of the Groups website at www.
Aggregate emoluments paid to Directors 10,641 9,900 The Group has made significant progress during the year.
It has reduced Aggregate gains made by Directors on exercise the level of risk in the business in reaction to the economic events that had a of share options particularly deep impact on the banking sector and the Group is endeavouring, Aggregate value of assets receivable under longas a business, to continue to support the UKs economic recovery.
term incentive schemes 39 The Groups decision making has focussed on balancing shareholders views Aggregate company contributions in respect on remuneration with the need to attract, incentivise and retain the right of Directors to defined contribution pension people, in light of this improved business performance.
The Group is proposing schemes 435 428 increases to Executive Director base salaries for 2011, in line with those for the Number of Directors with retirement benefits wider workforce.
This will be the first increase since 2008.
The annual incentive accruing under: opportunity for 2011 will stay the same as in previous years.
The bonus will continue to be based on a combination of Group financial measures and a defined contribution schemes 3 3 balanced scorecard of business financial and non-financial measures, including defined benefit schemes 2 2 customers, people and risk.
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP remain below 2008 levels and will be limited to 300 per cent of salary 420 per cent for Antnio Horta-Osrio.
The Group believes that the PERFORMANCE GRAPH performance measures for the 2011 LTIP award for the Group Executive The graph below illustrates the performance of the Group measured by TSR Committee should be Economic Profit, Earnings per share and absolute against a broad equity market index over the past five years.
The Group has Total Shareholder Return.
been a constituent of the FTSE 100 index throughout this five year period.
At this time the Group is not in a position to determine the metrics that will TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN FTSE 100 INDEX attach to these performance measures as the new Group Chief Executive is completing a strategic review of the business.
The Group believes it is critical 150 to ensure that the 2011 LTIP is aligned with the new strategic direction of the Company.
Therefore the Group has decided to consult with shareholders on the 125 metrics during the summer prior to communicating them to participants.
100 Executive Directors remain expected to build a shareholding in the Group 75 equivalent to 1.5 times 2 times for the Group Chief Executive gross basic salary.
50 The Group is proposing a change to the delivery of remuneration for Executive Directors and other employees.
Shareholders will be asked at the annual general 25 meeting to approve a resolution to use newly issued shares to settle deferred 0 bonus and LTIP awards, rather than market purchased shares.
31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 The Group believes that these arrangements are well aligned with the Financial Service Authoritys Code of Practice on Remuneration.
Lloyds Banking Group plc Rebased to 100 on 31 December 2005 FTSE 100 Index Source: Alithos Limited The Board has appointed Antnio Horta-Osrio as its Group Chief Executive with effect from 1 March 2011.
He will be undertaking a review of strategy.
When this is complete the Group will review the remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors to ensure they remain consistent with the strategy and if appropriate will consult with shareholders on any changes needed.
The fees of the independent Non-Executive Directors are agreed within a total amount agreed by the shareholders.
They may also receive fees, agreed by the Board, for membership of Board Committees.
The fees are designed to recognise the responsibilities of a Non-Executive Directors role and to attract individuals with relevant skills, knowledge and experience.
The fees are neither performance related nor pensionable and are comparable with those paid by other companies.
The Chairmans salary remains unchanged at 700,000 per annum.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 22 THE BOARD NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NG R RO NG Re Ri ANG R e ARi Sir Winfried Bischoff Lord Leitch Anita M Frew Chairman Deputy Chairman Independent Diector Independent Director Joined the Board and was appointed Chairman in September 2009.
Joined the Board in 2005 and was appointed Deputy Chairman in Joined the Board on 1 December 2010.
Chairman of Victrex, the Previously Chairman of Citigroup Inc. from December 2007 to May 2009.
Appointed Chairman of Scottish Widows in 2007.
Held a FTSE 250 global manufacturer of high performance polymers, February 2009.
He joined J Henry Schroder & Co in January 1966 number of senior and general management appointments in Allied having previously been the Senior Independent Director.
Since and became Managing Director of Schroders Asia in 1971, Group Dunbar, Eagle Star and Threadneedle Asset Management before 2000, she has held a portfolio of Non-Executive Directorships, Chief Executive of Schroders in 1984 and Chairman in 1995. the merger of Zurich Group and British American Tobaccos currently holding positions as Senior Non-Executive Director of Following the acquisition of Schroders investment banking financial services businesses in 1998.
Subsequently served as Aberdeen Asset Management and as Non-Executive Director of business by Citigroup in 2000, became Chairman of Citigroup Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Zurich Financial Services IMI and Northumbrian Water.
Prior to this she was Executive Europe before being appointed acting Chief Executive Officer of United Kingdom, Ireland, Southern Africa and Asia Pacific, until his Director of Abbott Mead Vickers, Director of Corporate Citigroup in 2007 and subsequently as Chairman in the same year.
Chairman of the Governments Review of Skills Development at WPP Group, and has held various investment and A Non-Executive Director of Eli Lilly and Company, and The published in December 2006 and Deputy Chairman of the marketing roles at Scottish Provident and the Royal Bank of McGraw Hill Companies Inc. in the United States.
He is a member Commonwealth Education Fund.
Chairman of BUPA and Intrinsic Scotland.
Aged 53. of the National Advisory Board of UK Career Academy Foundation Financial Services.
Former Chairman until October 2010 and a member of the Akbank Chairman of the National Employment Panel and of the ABI.
Chairman of the Advisory Council of Aged 63.
NG R e Ri NG ANG Ri R e Sir Julian Horn-Smith Glen R Moreno David L Roberts Independent Director Senior Independent Director Independent Director Joined the Board in 2005.
Held a number of senior and general Joined the Board on 1 March 2010.
Chairman of Pearson, the media Joined the Board on 1 March 2010.
Executive Director, member of management appointments in Vodafone from 1984 to 2006 group, since October 2005.
A Director of Fidelity International, one the Group Executive Committee and Chief Executive, International including a directorship of that company from 1996, Group Chief of the worlds largest fund management companies, and Chairman Retail and Commercial Banking at Barclays until December 2006.
Operating Officer from 2001 and Deputy Chief Executive Officer of its Audit Committee.
Deputy Chairman of The Financial Joined Barclays in 1983 and held various senior management from 2005.
Previously held positions in Philips from 1978 to 1982 Reporting Council.
From 1987 to 1991 was Chief Executive of positions, including Chief Executive, Personal Financial Services and Mars GB from 1982 to 1984.
A Non-Executive Director of fide La Fidelity International.
Until mid 2009, was a Non-Executive Director and Chief Executive, Business Banking.
Was also a Non-Executive Rue, Digicel Group and Emobile Japan, a Director of Sky Malta, a and Senior Independent Director of Man Group, the FTSE 100 Director of BAA until June 2006 and a Non-Executive Director of member of the Altimo International Advisory Board and a senior financial services group, and acting Chairman of UKFI.
Former Absa Group Limited, one of South Africas largest financial services adviser to UBS and CVC Capital Partners in relation to the global Group Executive of Citigroup from 1969 to 1987 and he held a groups, until October 2006.
From 2007 to 2009 he was also the telecommunications sector.
Deputy Chairman of Vallar plc.
number of senior positions at the bank in Europe and Asia.
Chairman and Chief Executive of BAWAG P. S. K. AG, the second Pro Vice-Chancellor of University of Bath.
A former Chairman of largest retail bank in Austria.
Non-Executive Chairman of The Mind The Sage Group.
A Re Ri ANG Ri ANG R e T Timothy Ryan, Jr Martin A Scicluna Anthony Watson CBE Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Joined the Board in March 2009.
President and Chief Executive of Joined the Board in 2008.
Chairman of Deloitte UK from 1995 to Joined the Board in April 2009.
Previously Chief Executive of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association.
Held a 2007 and a member of the Board from 1991 to 2007.
Joined the firm Hermes Pensions Management.
Held a number of senior number of senior appointments in JP Morgan Chase from 1993 to in 1973 and was a partner from 1982 until he retired in 2008.
A appointments in AMP Asset Management from 1991 to 1998.
2008 including Vice Chairman, financial institutions and member of the Board of directors of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu A Non-Executive Director of Hammerson, Vodafone and Witan governments, from 2005.
A Director of the US-Japan Foundation, from 1999 to 2007.
Chairman of Great Portland Estates.
A member Investment Trust, a member of the Norges Bank Investment Great-West Life Annuity Insurance Co. and Putnam Investments of the council of Leeds University and a Governor of Berkhamsted Management Advisory Board and Chairman of Marks and Spencer and a member of the Global Markets Advisory Committee for the School.
Pension Trust and Lincolns Inn Investment Committee.
A former Director in the Office of Chairman of MEPC, the Asian Infrastructure Fund and of the Thrift Supervison, US Department of the Treasury and Koram Bank Strategic Investment Board Northern Ireland and a former and the International Foundation of Election Systems.
Aged 65. member of the Financial Reporting Council.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 23 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS J Eric Daniels Antnio Horta-Osrio Archie G Kane Group Chief Executive Group Chief Executive Group Executive Director, Insurance Until 28 February 2011 from 1 March 2011 Board Representative for Scotland Joined the Board in 2001 as Group Executive Director, UK retail Joined the Board on 17 January 2011 as an Executive Director and Joined the Group in 1986 and held a number of senior and general will become Group Chief Executive on 1 March 2011.
Started his banking before his appointment as Group Chief Executive in June management appointments before being appointed to the Board career at Citibank Portugal where he was head of capital markets.
Served with Citibank from 1975 and held a number of senior in 2000, as Group Executive Director, IT and Operations.
At the same time, was an assistant professor at Universidade and general management appointments in the USA, South Appointed Group Executive Director, Insurance and Investments in Catolica Portuguesa.
Then worked for Goldman Sachs in New York America and Europe before becoming Chief Operating Officer of October 2003.
After some 10 years in the accountancy profession, and London.
In 1993, joined Grupo Santander as Chief Executive Citibank Consumer Bank in 1998.
Following the Citibank Travelers joined General Telephone & Electronics Corporation in 1980, of Banco Santander fide Negocios Portugal and then became merger in 1998, he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of serving as Finance Director in the UK from 1983 to 1985.
ABI Board Chief Executive Officer of Banco Santander Brazil.
In 2000, Travelers Life and Annuity until 2000.
A Non-Executive Director of member and former ABI Chairman, 2007-10.
Member of TheCityUK became Chief Executive Officer of Santander Totta, and Chairman BT Group.
Advisory Council and Scottish Governments Financial Services from 2006 until 2011, as well as Executive Vice President of Grupo Advisory Board.
Santander and a member of its Management Committee.
He joined Santander UK, as a Non-Executive Director in November 2004 and from August 2006 until November 2010, was its Chief Executive.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of the Court of the Bank of England until 28 February 2011.
G Truett Tate Tim J W Tookey Helen A Weir CBE Group Executive Director, Wholesale Group Finance Director Group Executive Director, Retail Joined the Group in 2003 as Managing Director, Corporate Joined the Group in 2006 as Deputy Group Finance Director, Joined the Board in 2004 as Group Finance Director.
Appointed as Banking before being appointed to the Board in 2004.
Served with before being appointed acting Group Finance Director in Group Executive Director, UK Retail Banking in April 2008.
Group Citigroup from 1972 to 1999, where he held a number of senior and April 2008.
Appointed to the Board in October 2008 as Group Finance Director of Kingfisher from 2000 to 2004.
Previously general management appointments in the USA, South America, Finance Director.
Previously Finance Director for the UK and Finance Director of B&Q, having joined that company in 1995, from Asia and Europe.
He was President and Chief Executive Officer of Europe at Prudential from 2002 to 2006 and Group Finance McKinsey & Co where she was a senior manager.
Began her career eCharge Corporation from 1999 to 2001 and co-founder and Vice Director of Heath Lambert Group from 1996 to 2002.
Prior to that, at Unilever.
Member of the Financial Services Practitioner Panel and Chairman of the Board of Chase Cost Management Inc from 1996 he spent 11 years at KPMG.
A member of the British Bankers the Said Business School Advisory Council.
A Non-Executive Director of BritishAmerican Business Inc Association and Chairman of its Audit Committee and Bankers Association Retail Committee.
A former member of the and AFME.
Chairman of Arora Holdings and a Director of Business Remuneration Committee.
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accounting Standards Board.
Fellow of the Chartered Institute of in the Community and a Director and Trustee of In Kind Direct.
Accountants in England and Wales.
COMMITTEE ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Harry F Baines Company Secretary A NG Re Ri Audit Committee Nomination & Remuneration Risk Committee To monitor and review the Governance Committee Committee To review and report its formal arrangements To keep the Boards To set the principles and conclusions to the Board established by the Board governance parameters of on the Groups risk in respect of the financial arrangements under remuneration policy for appetite and Risk statements and reporting review and make the Group, and to Management Framework.
of the Group: internal appropriate oversee remuneration The Committee has a controls and the Risk recommendations to the policy and outcomes for forward looking Management Framework: Board to ensure that the those colleagues covered perspective, anticipating internal audit: and the Companys arrangements by the scope of the changes in business Groups relationship with are consistent with best Committee.
Chairman of Committee Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 24 PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW GROUP RETAIL Reconciliation of combined businesses profit loss before tax to statutory profit before tax Combined businesses results summary Performance summary 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Change m m m m m m % Net interest income 13,822 12,726 Profit loss before tax Net interest income 9,378 7,970 18 combined businesses 2,212 6,300 Other income 10,164 11,875 Other income 1,607 1,804 11 Integration costs 1,653 1,096 Total income 23,986 24,601 Total income 10,985 9,774 12 Volatility arising in insurance Insurance claims 542 637 Operating expenses 4,644 4,566 2 businesses 306 478 Total income, Trading surplus 6,341 5,208 22 Government Asset Protection net of insurance claims 23,444 23,964 Impairment 2,747 4,227 35 Scheme fee 2,500 Costs: Share of results of joint Negative goodwill credit 11,173 Operating expenses 10,928 11,609 ventures and associates 17 6 Amortisation of purchased Impairment of tangible fixed Profit before tax and intangibles and goodwill assets 150 fair value unwind 3,611 975 impairment 629 993 Fair value unwind 1,105 407 11,078 11,609 Pension curtailment gain 910 Profit before tax 4,716 1,382 Trading surplus 12,366 12,355 Pre-acquisition results of HBOS plc 280 Impairment 13,181 23,988 Banking net interest margin 2.46% 1.97% Customer goodwill Banking asset margin 1.93% 1.18% Share of results of joint ventures payments provision 500 and associates 91 767 Banking liability margin 0.87% 1.41% Loss on disposal of businesses 365 Loss before tax and fair value Cost:income ratio 42.3% 46.7% Profit before tax statutory 281 1,042 unwind 906 12,400 Impairment as a % of Fair value unwind 3,118 6,100 average advances 0.74% 1.11% Profit loss before tax combined businesses 2,212 6,300 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Profit loss before tax Combined businesses basis m Statutory profit before tax m Profit before tax m 6,713 2008 2008 760 2008 2,542 2009 1,042 2009 1,382 6,300 2009 2010 2,212 2010 281 2010 4,716 Earnings per share pence Core tier 1 ratio % Income and operating expenses growth % Income 12 2008 6.7 2008 5.6 2 Operating expenses 2009 7.52009 8.1 0.5 2010 2010 10.2 Customer deposits bn PRESENTATION OF INFORMATION 2008 216.3 In order to reflect the impact of the acquisition of HBOS, provide more relevant and meaningful comparatives and better present 2009 224.1 the underlying business performance, the results of the Group and divisions are presented on a combined businesses basis.
The 2010 235.6 key principles adopted in the preparation of the combined businesses basis of reporting are described below.
In order to reflect the impact of the acquisition of HBOS, the following adjustments have been made: the 2009 results assume HBOS had been owned throughout the year: the gain on acquisition of HBOS in 2009 and amortisation of purchased intangible assets have been excluded: and Loans and advances to customers bn the unwind of acquisition-related fair value adjustments is shown as one line in the combined businesses income statement.
2008 377.1 In order to better present the underlying business performance the following items, not related to acquisition accounting, have also 2009 371.1 been excluded: integration costs: 2010 363.7 insurance and policyholder interests volatility: the Government Asset Protection Scheme GAPS fee paid in 2009: goodwill impairment: the curtailment gain in respect of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes: the customer goodwill payments provision: and loss on disposal of businesses.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2010 25 WHOLESALE WEALTH AND INTERNATIONAL INSURANCE Performance summary Performance summary Performance summary 2010 2009 Change 2010 2009 Change 2010 2009 Change m m % m m % m m % Net interest income 4,426 4,710 6 Net interest income 1,176 1,217 3 Net interest income 263 287 8 Other income 1,160 1,128 3 Other income 2,814 2,944 4 Other income 4,136 4,199 2 Total income 2,336 2,345 Total income 2,551 2,657 4 Total income 8,562 8,909 4 Costs: Operating expenses 1,536 1,544 1 Insurance claims 542 637 15 Operating expenses 3,744 4,106 9 Trading surplus 800 801 Total income, net of insurance claims 2,009 2,020 1 Impairment of tangible Impairment 5,988 4,078 47 fixed assets 150 Operating expenses 854 974 12 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 8 21 62 Share of results of joint 3,894 4,106 5 ventures and associates 10 22 55 Loss before tax and Trading surplus 4,668 4,803 3 fair value unwind 5,196 3,298 58 Profit before tax and Impairment 4,446 15,683 72 fair value unwind 1,145 1,024 12 Fair value unwind 372 942 61 Share of results of joint Fair value unwind 43 49 12 ventures and associates 95 720 87 Loss before tax 4,824 2,356 Profit before tax 1,102 975 13 Loss before tax and Wealth 269 198 36 fair value unwind 127 11,600 Profit before tax and fair International 5,465 3,496 56 value unwind before Fair value unwind 3,130 6,897 55 Loss before tax and fair impact of PPI new Profit loss before tax 3,257 4,703 value unwind 5,196 3,298 58 business closure 1,215 1,024 19 Banking net interest margin 1.63% 1.71% Corporate Markets 697 11,736 94 Other income impact of Banking asset margin 1.22% 1.26% Treasury and Trading 428 595 28 PPI new business closure 70 Banking liability margin 0.83% 0.82% Asset Finance 396 459 Profit before tax and fair Cost:income ratio 65.8% 65.8% value unwind 1,145 1,024 12 Loss before tax Impairment as a % of and fair value unwind 127 11,600 Profit before tax and fair average advances 8.90% 6.04% value unwind by business unit Banking net interest margin 1.88% 1.52% Life, Pensions and Investments: Banking asset margin 1.28% 1.02% Before impact of PPI new Banking liability margin 1.29% 1.16% business closure 753 617 22 Cost:income ratio PPI new business closure 70 excl.
impairment of UK business 683 617 11 tangible fixed assets 43.7% 46.1% European business 110 75 47 Impairment as a % of average advances 2.08% 5.92% General Insurance 372 367 1 Other 20 35 43 Profit before tax and fair value unwind 1,145 1,024 12 Profit loss before tax m Profit loss before tax m Profit before tax m 10,479 2008 2008 2772008 1,540 4,703 2009 2,356 2009 2009 975 2010 3,257 4,824 20102010 1,102 Income and operating expenses growth % Income and operating expenses growth % Income and operating expenses growth % Income 1 4 Income Income 0 9 Operatingexpenses 1 Operatingexpenses 12 Operatingexpenses Growth in cross-selling income % Customer deposits bn New business margin EEV LP&I UK % 2008 3.1 2009 262008 34.1 2010 9 2009 29.0 2009 2.5 2010 32.82010 3.5 Committed gross lending bn Wealth relationship clients LP&I UK bancassurance sales m 2009 c35 2010 c49 2008 8,356 2008 285,000 2009 307,0002009 6,997 2010 4,432 2010 328,000 0 8356 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Annual report and accounts Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Forward looking statements This annual review, including the summary financial The Company provides a number of options for This announcement contains forward looking statements statements and summary directors report contained investing in Lloyds Banking Group shares through an with respect to the business, strategy and plans of the within, is only a summary of information derived from ISA.
For details contact: Lloyds TSB Share Dealing, Lloyds Banking Group, its current goals and expectations the Companys annual accounts and the directors Halifax Share Dealing or Equiniti Limited.
relating to its future financial condition and performance.
remuneration report and does not provide sufficient Statements that are not historical facts, including information to allow as full an understanding of the Corporate responsibility statements about the Group or the Groups results and state of affairs of Lloyds Banking Group as managements beliefs and expectations, are forward A copy of the Groups corporate responsibility report would be provided by the full report and accounts.
By their nature, forward looking may be obtained by writing to Corporate Responsibility, Shareholders who would like more detailed information statements involve risk and uncertainty because they Lloyds Banking Group plc, 25 Gresham Street, London may obtain a copy of the full report and accounts, and relate to events and depend on circumstances that will EC2V 7HN.
This information together with the Groups also elect to receive all future report and accounts, occur in the future.
The Groups actual future business, code of business conduct is also available on the by contacting our registrars, Equiniti Limited on strategy, plans and or results may differ materially from Groups website www.
The report and accounts is also available those expressed or implied in these forward looking on our website, www.
com statements as a result of a variety of risks, uncertainties American Depositary Receipts ADRs and other factors, including, without limitation, UK Share price information Lloyds Banking Group shares are traded in the domestic and global economic and business conditions: USA through an NYSE-listed sponsored ADR facility, the ability to derive cost savings and other benefits, as In addition to listings in the financial pages of the press, with The Bank of New York Mellon as the depositary.
well as the ability to integrate successfully the acquisition the latest price of Lloyds Banking Group shares on the The ADRs are traded on the New York Stock of HBOS: the ability to access sufficient funding to meet London Stock Exchange can be obtained by Exchange under the symbol LYG.
The CUSIP number the Groups liquidity needs: changes to the Groups telephoning 09058 890 190. is 539439109 and the ratio of ADRs to ordinary shares credit ratings: risks concerning borrower or counterparty Visit www.
is 1:4. credit quality: market related trends and developments: For details contact: changing demographic trends: changes in customer Share dealing facilities The Bank of New York Mellon Shareowner Services, preferences: changes to regulation, accounting Lloyds Banking Group offers shareholders a choice of PO Box 358516, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15252-8516. standards or taxation, including changes to regulatory two dealing services: Telephone: 1-866-259-0336 US toll free, international capital or liquidity requirements: the policies and actions callers: 1 201-680-6825.
Alternatively visit of governmental or regulatory authorities in the UK, the Lloyds TSB Share Dealing www.
com or email European Union, or jurisdictions outside the UK, Internet dealing.
com including other European countries and the US: the Telephone dealing.
Call 0845 60 60 560 ability to attract and retain senior management and other Internet services are available 24 7 and telephone Annual general meeting employees: requirements or limitations imposed on the services are available between 8.00am and 6.00pm, Group as a result of HM Treasurys investment in the The annual general meeting will be held at 11.00am on Monday to Friday.
Details of any dealing costs are Group: the ability to complete satisfactorily the disposal Wednesday 18 May 2011 in Hall 5, at the Scottish available when you log on to the share dealing website of certain assets as part of the Groups EU state aid Exhibition and Conference Centre in Glasgow.
or when you call the above number.
To open a Lloyds obligations: the extent of any future impairment charges TSB Share Dealing Account you must be 18 years of age or write-downs caused by depressed asset valuations: Head office or over and be resident in the UK.
You can apply online exposure to regulatory scrutiny, legal proceedings or or by post.
25 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7HN complaints, actions of competitors and other factors.
Telephone 44 0 20 7626 1500 Please refer to the latest Annual Report on Form 20-F filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission Halifax Share Dealing Registered office for a discussion of such factors together with examples Internet dealing.
co. uk of forward looking statements.
The forward looking Telephone dealing.
Call 08457 22 55 25 The Mound, Edinburgh EH1 1YZ statements contained in this announcement are made Internet services are available 24 7 and telephone Registered in Scotland no 95000 as at the date of this announcement, and the Group dealing services are available between 8.00am and undertakes no obligation to update any of its forward 9.15pm, Monday to Friday, and 9.00am to 1pm, Saturday.
To open a Halifax Share Dealing Account you must be www.
com 18 years of age or over and be resident in the UK, Jersey, Guernsey or the Isle of Man.
Registrar Shareholders in the Lloyds Banking Group Shareholder Equiniti Limited Account can only trade by telephone through the Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, Halifax Share Dealing Service on 08705 711 117.
West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone 0871 384 2990 Shareholder enquiries Textphone 0871 384 2255 The Companys share register and the Lloyds Banking Overseas 44 0 121 415 7066 Group Shareholder Account are maintained by Equiniti www.
Contact them if you have enquiries about your Calls to 09058 and 0871 numbers are charged at 55p and 8p per Lloyds Banking Group shareholding, including those minute, respectively, from a BT landline.
The price of calls from concerning the following matters: mobiles and other networks may vary.
Calls from outside the Change of name or address United Kingdom are charged at applicable international rates.
The call prices we have quoted were correct in February 2011.
Loss of share certificate Dividend information, including loss of dividend warrant or tax voucher.
Equiniti operates a web based enquiry and portfolio management service for you to receive shareholder communications electronically.
You can change your address or bank details either by telephone or online.
Additionally you can register proxy appointments and voting instructions on your shareholding online.
ocial partner of the Olympic and Paralympic Games
