Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation and accounting policies segments are given in the Segmental Review on pages 14 to 25. note 4 of the consolidated financial statements sets out the Groups the Companys and Groups consolidated financial statements reportable segments and sets out reconciliations between these are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting and the results reported in the income statement.
Following the Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations change in operating segments, the results of the joint ventures Committee IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the european union, are now considered operating activities and as such are disclosed and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to in operating profit.
the Group has early adopted the annual companies reporting under IFRS.
improvement to IFRS 8, resulting in disclosure of the information reviewed by the Groups executive Committee.
the financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of assets and liabilities IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Revised has been revised to require held at fair value, including those of the central counterparty CCp capitalisation of borrowing costs on qualifying assets and the Group clearing business of the Groups majority-owned subsidiary Cassa has amended its accounting policy accordingly.
In accordance with di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. CC&G, and on the basis of the transitional requirements of the standard, the capitalisation of the Groups accounting policies.
borrowing costs has been adopted as a prospective change from the commencement date of 1 April 2009. no change has been made for the Group uses a columnar format for the presentation of its borrowing costs incurred prior to this date that have been expensed.
this enables the Group to aid the Since adoption, the Group has incurred no borrowing costs on readers understanding of its results by presenting profit for the year qualifying assets which are required to be capitalised.
before goodwill impairment, amortisation of purchased intangible assets and exceptional items.
this is the profit measure used to the following standards and amendments were also effective for the calculate adjusted earnings per share and is considered to be the current period, but the adoption of these did not have a material most appropriate as it best reflects the Groups underlying cash impact on these consolidated financial statements: earnings and is the primary measure of performance monitored by the Groups executive Committee.
profit before acquisition International accounting standards and interpretations impairment and amortisation, and exceptional items is reconciled IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real estate to profit before taxation on the face of the income statement.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net Investment in a Foreign operation IFRS various Annual improvements 2009 Recent accounting developments the following standards and interpretations have been issued by the the following standards, amendments and interpretations have been International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC and have issued by the IASB and IFRIC with an effective date, subject to eu been adopted in these financial statements.
endorsement that does not impact on these financial statements.
International accounting standards and interpretations International accounting standards and IAS 1 Revised presentation of Financial Statements interpretations Effective date IFRS 2 Share-based payment Amendments IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amended relating to group cash-settled share-based payment IFRS 8 operating Segments transactions and vesting conditions 1 January 2010 IFRS 3 Business Combinations Comprehensive IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Revised revision on applying the acquisition method 1 July 2009 IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial IAS 1 Revised presentation of Financial Statements has been Statements Consequential amendments arising adopted.
the revised standard prohibits the presentation of items of from amendments to IFRS 3 1 July 2009 income and expense in the statement of changes in equity, requiring IAS 28 Investments in Associates Consequential non-shareholder changes in equity to be presented separately from amendments arising from amendments to IFRS 3 1 July 2009 shareholder changes in equity.
All non-shareholder changes in equity IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures Consequential amendments arising from amendments to IFRS 3 1 July 2009 are required to be presented in a performance statement.
IAS 1 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Revised permits a choice between presenting a single performance Measurement Amendments for eligible hedged statement being a Statement of Comprehensive Income or two items 1 July 2009 statements being an Income Statement and a Statement of IFRIC 17 Distributions of non-cash Assets Comprehensive Income.
the Group has elected to present to owners 1 July 2009 two statements.
IFRIC 18 transfers of Assets from Customers 1 July 2009 IFRIC 19 extinguishing Financial liabilities with IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amended has been equity Instruments 1 July 2010 adopted.
the amendment requires enhanced disclosures about fair the impact on the Groups financial statements of the future standards, value measurement and liquidity risk.
amendments and interpretations is still under review, but the Group does not currently expect any of these changes to have a material IFRS 8 operating Segments has been adopted.
this standard impact on the results or the net assets of the Company or the Group.
replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting and effectively requires the one potential exception to this is the requirement to expense segmental information reported to be based on that which the acquisition costs under IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the impact Groups executive Committee, which is considered to be the Groups of which is entirely dependent on the incidence and size of future chief operating decision maker, uses internally for the purposes of acquisitions, both of which are not determinable at this stage.
evaluating the performance of the Groups operating segments.
Details of the products and services offered by the individual 64 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Accounting policies d I t products where there is no significant service obligation the Consolidation revenue is recognised upon delivery and acceptance of the the consolidated financial statements comprise the financial software or hardware by the customer: statements of the Company and its subsidiaries with all intere I t solutions where software is sold requiring significant company balances and transactions eliminated, together with the modification, integration or customisation, the consideration is Groups attributable share of the results of associates and joint allocated between the different elements on a fair value basis.
the results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are included Revenue is recognised using a percentage of completion method.
in the income statement up to, or from, the date that control passes.
the stage of completion is determined by reference to the costs As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the incurred to date as a proportion of the total estimated costs or the Companys income statement has not been included in these financial services performed to date as a percentage of total services to be statements.
the Companys income for the year is disclosed within performed.
provision is made for all foreseeable future losses in the statement of changes in equity.
the period in which they are identified: f Software and licence fees revenue is recognised when the Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for performance under the contract has occurred and the revenue has under the equity method.
the Groups investments in joint ventures been earned: and and associates are initially recognised at cost, and its share of profits g other all other revenue is recognised in the month in which the or losses after tax from joint ventures and associates is included in service is provided.
In interim reports, Borsa Italiana group defers the consolidated income statement.
Cumulative post-acquisition some of the income received from cash trading and FtSe MIB movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the futures trading and clearing.
this deferral results in revenues being investment in the Groups balance sheet.
the financial statements recognised at the average price of transactions forecast for the full of joint ventures and associates are used by the Group to apply the year, as pricing levels reduce during the year when incremental equity method, under which the Groups income statement reflects volume targets are achieved.
the Groups share of the results of operations of the associates.
A company is considered an associate where the Group has a Exceptional items significant influence.
Items of income and expense that are material by size and or nature and are non-recurring are classified as exceptional items on the face the acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase of the income statement within their relevant category.
the cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate reporting of these items together with impairment of goodwill and of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities amortisation of purchased intangible assets helps give an indication incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group of the Groups underlying performance.
in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination, such as professional fees Share based compensation paid to accountants and legal advisers and other consultants to the Group operates a number of equity settled share based effect the combination.
Adjustments to fair values include those compensation plans for employees.
the charge to the income made to bring accounting policies into line with those of the Group.
statement is determined by the fair value of the options granted or shares awarded at the date of grant and recognised over the the Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority relevant vesting period.
interests as transactions with parties external to the Group.
Acquisitions of shares from minority interests result in goodwill being Foreign currencies the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share the consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, acquired of the carrying value of the net assets of the subsidiary.
which is the Companys presentation and functional currency.
Investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment when Foreign currency transactions are converted into the functional events indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable and currency using the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign are accounted for in the Companys financial statements at cost less exchange gains or losses resulting from the settlement of such accumulated impairment losses.
transactions and from the translation at year-end rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are Revenue recognised in the income statement.
translation differences on Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received non-monetary items, such as equities or bonds held at fair value or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and through profit or loss, are reported as part of their fair value gain or services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, loss.
exceptions to this are where the non-monetary items form part VAt and other sales related taxes.
of the net investment in a foreign operation or are designated as hedges of a net investment, or as cash flow hedges.
Such exchange Revenue is recognised in the period when the service or supply is differences are initially recognised in equity.
the sources of revenue are: the results and financial position of all Group entities that have a a Maintenance contracts, membership and other fees revenue functional currency different from the presentation currency are is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period to which the converted into the presentation currency as follows: fee relates: b A dmission fees revenue is recognised at the time of admission a a ssets and liabilities including goodwill, purchased intangible to trading: assets and fair value adjustments are converted at the closing c Royalties revenue is recognised at the earlier of cash receipt or balance sheet rate: the date at which they are earned or measurable with certainty: London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 65 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements b income and expenses are translated and recorded in the income realised or liability settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to statement at the average monthly rates prevailing: and the extent it is probable that they will be recoverable against future c all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate taxable profits.
Classification of financial assets Property, plant and equipment Freehold properties, including related fixed plant, are included in the Financial assets excluding clearing business financial statements at cost less accumulated depreciation and any the Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: provision for impairment.
Freehold buildings and related fixed plant at fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale and loans and are depreciated to residual value, based on cost at the beginning of receivables.
the classification depends on the purpose for which the year plus subsequent additions, over their estimated economic the financial assets were acquired.
the estimated useful lives of properties range between 33 classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
and 50 years, and the estimated useful economic lives of fixed plant range from five to 20 years.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial leasehold properties and improvements are included at cost and assets held for liquidity purposes and are initially recognised at fair depreciated to residual value over the shorter of the period of the value and any subsequent changes in fair value are recognised lease or the useful economic life of the asset.
directly in the income statement.
these assets are financial instruments not designated as hedges.
plant and equipment is stated at cost and is depreciated to residual value on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic lives b Available-for-sale financial assets of the assets, which mainly range from three to fifteen years.
Investments other than term deposits and interests in joint ventures, associates and subsidiaries are designated as available for sale and Intangible assets are recorded on trade date at fair value plus transaction costs with Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries represents the changes in fair value recognised in equity.
Where the fair value is not excess of consideration paid plus transaction costs over the fair value reliably measurable, the investment is held at cost less any provision of the Groups share of net identifiable assets purchased.
Assets such as shares in clearing and payment amortised but is tested for impairment annually and when there are transmission operations and long term equity investments that do indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable, and is not qualify as associates or joint ventures are usually classified as carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
on the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the c loans and receivables assets and liabilities acquired.
these may include brand names, loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or customer relationships, licences and software intellectual property, determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
they all of which are recorded as intangible assets and held at cost less are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater accumulated amortisation.
these assets are amortised on a straight than 12 months after the balance sheet date which are classified as line basis over their useful economic lives, which do not normally non-current assets.
loans and receivables comprise trade and other exceed 25 years or the term of the licence.
the amortisation period receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
and method are reviewed and adjusted, as appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets and liabilities of the central counterparty CCP clearing business third party software costs for the development and implementation Assets and liabilities of the CCp clearing service relate to CC&G, the of systems which enhance the services provided by the Group are subsidiary that performs the CCp clearing business.
CC&G clears capitalised and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives.
financial derivatives, equities and bond transactions on Italian regulated markets, guaranteeing the successful receipt or delivery of securities Internal product development expenditure is capitalised if the costs for the transactions to be settled on both the sale and purchase side can be reliably measured, the product or process is technically and of transactions with the respective counterparties.
It enters into a commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the contractual arrangement in respect of each side of the transaction, Group has sufficient resources to complete the development and to bears the counterparty risk associated with the counterparties use or sell the asset.
the assets are recorded at cost including honouring their obligations and, in the event of a failure to deliver by any labour, directly attributable costs and any third party expenses.
counterparty, is required itself to complete delivery of the appropriate securities.
Accordingly, CC&G must record an asset and a liability on its Current and deferred taxation balance sheet in respect of each of the sale and purchase sides of each the current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax transaction.
However, except in respect of failed transactions CC&G laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in as a CCp clearer does not bear any price risk and the value of the sale the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and and purchase side of each transaction are the same: consequently, the generate taxable income.
principal CCp asset and liability amounts largely match each other.
Full provision is made, using the liability method, for temporary Income recognised through the CCp clearing business includes net differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and interest earned on margins and default funds held as part of our risk their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
this income stream is shown separately from the is determined using tax rates that are substantially enacted at the Group revenues as the interest is earned on assets held by the Group on balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the asset is behalf of third parties and is based on the spread between eonIA and euRIBoR rates, which is outside the control of management.
66 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information this amount has been shown separately on the face of the income Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities statement to distinguish the income stream from those arising from Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a the Groups other activities and provide the reader with a greater derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured understanding of the operating activities of the Group.
this new at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
the method of presentation has resulted in the comparatives being reclassified out recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether or not the of Revenue and into net interest income from CCp business, with derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so the nature no impact on the overall income recognised in the prior year.
Accounting treatments of CCp financial assets and liabilities include the Group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging interest the following: risk on borrowings.
Any gain or loss is recognised in the income statement within finance expenses.
a Derivatives, trading assets and liabilities these transactions are initially recorded at fair value, which coincides the Group designates as cash flow hedges both foreign currency with the market value of the open positions on the IDeM derivatives derivatives and hedges of interest rate movements associated with market in which CC&G operates as CCp, and are subsequently highly probable forecast transactions.
Any gain or loss on the re-measured on the basis of the market price of each derivative hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge instrument at the period end.
Since the asset and liability positions is recognised in equity.
of the CCp clearer are matched, the same amount is recorded for both the assets and liabilities and no fair value gains or losses are the Group hedges a proportion of its net investment in Borsa Italiana recognised in the income statement.
S. p. A. by designating euro borrowings as a net investment hedge.
b Receivables for and liabilities under repurchase transactions In order to qualify for hedge accounting, a transaction must meet these represent repurchase transactions repos by clearing strict criteria as regards documentation, effectiveness, probability members in the bond market using CC&Gs clearing and guarantee of occurrence and reliability of measurement.
they represent the value of transactions already settled at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging spot and not yet settled at term, usually within two days.
these instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management transactions are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
measured at amortised cost, by allocating the yield on the repo effectiveness testing is conducted at each reporting date and at the pro-rated over the duration of the contract the coupon accrued in commencement and conclusion of any hedge in order to verify that the period and the difference between the spot and forward prices.
the hedge continues to satisfy all the criteria for hedge accounting Since the asset and liability positions for repos are matched, the to be maintained.
the ineffective portion is recognised in the income same amount is recorded for both assets and liabilities and no gain statement within finance costs.
or loss is recorded in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement c other receivables from and payables to clearing members in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss for these comprise accounts receivable and payable deriving from example, when the forecast transaction that is hedged takes place.
the activities of clearing members in derivatives, equities and bond When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge transactions.
they mainly represent amounts to be received or paid no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative for initial and variation margins, option premiums and default fund gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is contributions and are initially recorded at fair value.
they are generally recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised settled on the next day and, accordingly, are not discounted back to in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer current value.
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
d Financial assets and liabilities at fair value these represent quoted equity and bond securities which CC&G Inventories acquires usually as a result of failure by a counterparty to deliver Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
its side of a transaction and are recognised initially at fair value and Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFo method.
net subsequently re-measured at fair value, based on the market price realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of each security.
the difference between the settlement price of of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
each security at trade date and the market price of that security at the period end is recognised as a fair value gain or loss in the Trade receivables income statement.
trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their fair value which is usually the original invoiced amount less provision e Cash and cash equivalents restricted for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is these amounts include amounts received from clearing members established when there is objective evidence that the Group will to cover initial and variation margins and default fund contributions not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original as collateral against default or insolvency and are deposited with terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the banks.
Such amounts are initially recognised at fair value and are debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial subsequently recognised at amortised cost using the effective reorganisation and default or delinquency in payments are considered interest method, if the time value of money is significant.
indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
the amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of the portion deemed recoverable.
the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 67 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income each lease payment is apportioned between the finance charge and statement.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written the liability so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance off are credited in the income statement.
the plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the Cash and cash equivalents lease term.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and term deposits that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject Due to the immaterial value of finance leases within the Group, they to insignificant risk of changes in value.
are not disclosed separately within the accounts.
Borrowings Pension costs Bank borrowings are initially recorded at the fair value of amounts the Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution received, net of direct issue costs and transaction costs including pension schemes.
For the defined benefit schemes the service upfront facility fees.
Subsequently, these liabilities are carried at cost, representing benefits accruing to employees, is included as an amortised cost, and interest is charged to the income statement over operating expense and the expected return on scheme assets and the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
interest cost from unwinding of the discount on scheme obligations Similarly direct issue costs and transaction costs including upfront are included as finance income and finance expenses respectively.
facility fees are charged to the income statement over the period Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
changes in actuarial assumptions or differences between actual and expected returns on assets are recognised at each period end net Redeemable class B shares are carried at amortised cost and of tax in the statement of comprehensive income.
the net asset or presented as a financial liability.
the dividend accrued in respect liability recognised on the balance sheet comprises the difference of the class B shares has been classified within finance costs in between the present value of pension obligations and the fair value the income statement.
For defined contribution schemes, the expense is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Provisions A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, 2.
Financial risk management whether legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required the Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: capital to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the risk, credit risk, market risk including foreign exchange, fair value amount of the obligation.
provision is made in the financial statements and cash flow interest rate risks and liquidity risk.
the Groups risk for the lower of the cost of fulfilling lease commitments for property management programme seeks to minimise potential adverse effects space surplus to business requirements after taking into account on its financial performance.
income from sub-letting, and any compensation or penalties arising from failure to fulfil the lease commitments.
Such provisions are Financial risk management is not speculative and is performed at discounted where the time value of money is considered material.
both a Group level, where the treasury function identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks from a Group perspective and locally, Share capital where operating unit risk functions manage regulatory or operational the Companys own shares held by the eSop trust are deducted risks.
the treasury Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial officer, from equity until they vest unconditionally in employees and are held meets at regular intervals and operates within Board approved at cost.
Consideration paid in respect of these treasury shares is policies to review the management of foreign exchange, interest deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued or rate and credit risks, and the investment of excess liquidity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Leases leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis.
lease incentives are spread over the term of the lease.
the Group leases certain plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
these are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
68 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information caPItaL RISk RISk dEScRIPtIon RISk ManagEMEnt aPPRoach Capital comprises resources that are the Group seeks to maintain its cost of capital at or close to an optimum level.
It seeks to raised by the Group from: provide superior returns to its shareholders, whilst fulfilling its obligations to the relevant its shareholders equity capital regulatory authorities and other stakeholders and ensuring that it is not overly dependent its lenders debt capital, and upon short and medium term debt that might not be available at renewal.
the methods by which the Group may adjust its capital structure would principally include Details of the Groups equity capital returns to shareholders, issues of new shares and increases or reductions of debt.
the and retained profits are set out in the Board reviews dividend policy and funding capacity on a regular basis.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in equity and details of the Groups debt to maintain the financial strength to access new capital at reasonable cost, the Group capital current and non-current are set monitors capital in a number of ways, including on the basis of the ratio of net debt to eBItDA.
out in note 27. this ratio is calculated as total current and non-current borrowings less the cash and cash equivalents that are set aside to meet regulatory requirements and compares this with its the Group considers the following to be eBItDA Group consolidated earnings before net finance charges, taxation, impairment, the principal risks in managing its capital: depreciation and amortisation.
net debt to eBItDA at 31 March 2010 was 1.5 times on an a scarcity of new capital due to the actual basis 2009: 1.6 times.
In managing its net debt to eBItDA ratio the Group has regard Groups performance to its weighted average cost of capital WACC and its strategic objective of an investment a scarcity of capital driven by grade credit rating.
market conditions an increase in regulatory the Group also has two bank facility covenants that have a bearing on its capital structure, net Debt: capital requirements eBItDA and coverage of net interest costs by eBItA or eBItDA.
performance against these ratios is comfortable and these covenants should not inhibit the Groups operations or financing plans.
As at 31 March 2010 approximately 125m was set aside to comfortably cover regulatory and operational requirements, with the amount subject to ongoing review with regulators in the uK and Italy.
cREdIt RISk RISk dEScRIPtIon RISk ManagEMEnt aPPRoach CC&G in its role as central counterparty Credit risk is controlled through policies developed both at a Group level and, where clearer CCp to Italian financial market appropriate, with regulators at an individual subsidiary level.
Due to the nature of its business participants faces the risk of losses from risk, CC&G has its own financial risk management policy approved by its Board of Directors the deterioration in the creditworthiness and it works closely with the Bank of Italy to monitor this risk.
or the default of a counterparty.
It takes cc&g the position as the guarantor of the final CC&G is required to invest cash with counterparties that are either investment grade or who settlement of equity, derivative and fixed have a minimum level of capital, for periods of up to 12 months in an amount dependent on income trade contracts, acting as a the credit quality of the counterparty.
CC&G liaises closely with the Bank of Italy regarding buyer towards each seller and as a seller the Italian banking institutions with whom these funds are deposited.
It also manages a significant quantum of member cash held CC&G has established a financial safeguarding against single or multiple defaults of market within its margin and default funds.
participants: More broadly, credit risk relates to the 1.
Clearing membership selection is based upon supervisory capital, technical and Groups customers and counterparties organisational criteria: being unable to meet their obligations 2.
Margin accounts each member must pay margins, computed at least daily, to cover the to the Group either in part or in full, theoretical costs which CC&G would incur in order to close out open positions in the event including: of the members default: and customer receivables 3.
Default funds clearing members contribute to default funds managed by CC&G to repayment of cash and cash guarantee the integrity of the markets in the event of multiple defaults in extreme equivalents including bank deposits market circumstances, in line with risk management standards agreed by the european settlement of derivative financial Association of Central Counterparty Clearing Houses.
Amounts are determined on the instruments.
basis of the results of periodic stress testing examined by CC&Gs risk committee and are varied as appropriate according to circumstances.
London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 69 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements cREdIt RISk contInUEd RISk dEScRIPtIon RISk ManagEMEnt aPPRoach group Group companies make a judgement on the credit quality of their customers based upon the following factors: the customers financial position past experience low concentration of credit risk across a large number of customers generally, a low historic incidence of customer defaults the recurring nature of the billing and collection arrangements.
Management assesses the credit quality of the Groups customers as high.
Credit risk with respect to cash and cash equivalents is managed generally by limiting the exposure to each counterparty to: 15m or local currency equivalent a minimum rating of Aa3 per Moodys periods not exceeding 12 months.
Derivative transactions are limited to well-capitalised counterparties, authorised by policy, each of whom has an appropriate depth of coverage and expertise and with consideration given to the need for collateralisation.
the Group recognises that sovereign risk assessment plays a part in its criteria for counterparty selection.
MaRkEt RISk FoREIgn ExchangE RISk dEScRIPtIon RISk ManagEMEnt aPPRoach the Group operates predominantly the Group seeks to reduce its net asset exposure to movements between sterling and the in the uK, Italy and Sri lanka.
As euro by regularly distributing its euro cash earnings in dividends and by holding an element group companies invoice revenues, of its debt in euros or exchanging sterling debt into euros using cross-currency swaps.
the incur expenses and purchase assets Groups euro debt and cross-currency swaps are then serviced by cash generated by its predominantly in their respective local Italian operations which, in turn, partially protects the Groups sterling income statement by currencies, foreign exchange risk arises increasing the proportion of euro denominated interest expense.
At 31 March 2010 284.0m mainly from the translation of the 2009: 151.9m of the Groups debt was denominated in or swapped into euros and Groups euro earnings, assets and designated as a hedge of the net investment in Borsa Italiana.
During the year to 31 March liabilities into its reporting currency, 2010 a loss of 9.9m 2009: loss of 24.8m on foreign currency borrowings was recognised sterling.
there was no ineffectiveness of the hedge recognised in the income statement.
the Group also faces less significant Group treasury policy stipulates that if companies generate revenues in excess of an foreign exchange exposures from aggregate 1m or equivalent per annum in a currency other than their reporting currency then transaction risk on export earnings, this should be hedged in accordance with policy guidelines.
During the year foreign exchange occasional strategic investments made derivative contracts required to hedge forecast foreign currency revenues represented less in currencies other than the currency of than 1 per cent of the Groups total revenue.
the investing operation and dividends that are remitted in currencies other than the Group reviews sensitivities to movements in exchange rates which are appropriate to the currency of the recipient operation.
As at 31 March 2010 the Group has considered movements in the euro over the last year including recent volatility affecting this currency and has concluded that a 10 per cent movement in rates is a reasonable benchmark.
At 31 March 2010, if sterling had weakened strengthened by 10 per cent against the euro on the day with all other variables held constant, post tax profit for the year would have been 1.8m higher 1.5m lower 2009: unchanged : however, equity would have been 16.4m lower 2009: 6.7m higher 13.4m higher 2009: 10.2m lower.
this reflects foreign exchange gains losses on translation of euro denominated trade receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and foreign exchange gains losses on translation of euro denominated borrowings.
70 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information MaRkEt RISk caSh FLoW and FaIR VaLUE IntERESt RatE RISk RISk dEScRIPtIon RISk ManagEMEnt aPPRoach the Groups interest rate risk arises on to provide a degree of income statement stability, and reflecting material levels of cash and cash and cash equivalents, investments cash equivalents held for short periods, the Group seeks to maintain a proportion of its net in financial assets and borrowings.
debt at fixed rates of interest over the medium term.
Changes in market interest rates mean At the start of the financial year, 60 per cent of the Groups net debt was effectively held at that investments and borrowings subject fixed rates of interest after taking into account interest rate swaps exchanging floating rate to variable rates expose the Group to borrowings for fixed rate borrowings.
these hedges were designated cash flow hedges and the risk that future associated cash flows remained in place and fully effective at 31 March 2010. will fluctuate.
In June 2009, the Group increased its fixed rate borrowings when it issued a 250m bond due in 2019 note 27 to refinance shorter dated bank debt resulting in greater than 100 per cent of its net debt being held at fixed rates of interest.
Following a period of review the Group sought to increase its floating rate exposure by arranging interest rate swaps on a portion of its 250m bond due in 2016 note 27. these hedges were designated fair value hedges and were deemed effective at 31 March 2010.
Given the cash generative nature of the Groups operations, over 100 per cent of its net debt remains at fixed rates at 31 March 2010 after taking into account the effect of derivative financial instruments.
this is subject to ongoing review.
the Group reviews sensitivities for movements in interest rates which are appropriate to market conditions.
the Group has considered the volatility of interest rates over the last year and prospects for rates over the next 12 months and has concluded that a two per cent upward movement and no downward movement reflects a reasonable level of risk to current rates.
At 31 March 2010, if interest rates on sterling-denominated and euro-denominated cash and borrowings had been two per cent higher with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 1.7m higher 2009:1.6m lower mainly as a result of higher interest income on floating rate cash and cash equivalents.
LIQUIdItY RISk RISk dEScRIPtIon RISk ManagEMEnt aPPRoach the Company is exposed to liquidity risk the Group maintains sufficient cash and marketable securities together with the availability to the extent that it is unable to meet its of funding through adequate committed credit facilities to meet all its financial obligations as daily payment obligations.
In addition to the day to day liquidity Group businesses are profitable and generate significant free cash flow.
this free cash flow requirements of Group companies, is available to the Group to invest in capital expenditure, acquisitions, dividend payments, CC&G and certain other subsidiary other returns of capital or to reduce debt.
companies are required to maintain a level of liquidity within their own legal Management monitors forecasts of the Groups liquidity, prepared to reflect expected cash entities to meet regulatory requirements flow, and overlays sensitivities to these forecasts to reflect assumptions about more difficult and or ensure the smooth operation of market conditions.
treasury policy also requires that the Group maintains adequate credit facilities provided by a diversified lending group to at least cover its funding requirements for the next 12 months.
Significant headroom is maintained in its committed, revolving credit facilities to provide additional liquidity with attention given during the year to the ongoing credit quality of the Groups lending banks.
At 31 March 2010 368.4m of the Groups facilities were unutilised 2009: 283.5m, the Group having increased its committed credit facilities during the year and generated and retained surplus cash in the business.
the Groups borrowings at the 31 March 2010 have an average life to maturity of over six years.
Separately, CC&G has access to committed and uncommitted lines of credit with intra-day financing from the Bank of Italy to meet the cash requirements related to settlement see note 22.
London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 71 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements LIQUIdItY RISk contInUEd RISk dEScRIPtIon RISk ManagEMEnt aPPRoach the table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Less than Between 1 Between 2 over 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years 31 March 2010 m m m m Borrowings 0.9 106.2 499.6 trade and other payables 137.1 CCp liabilities 84,257.5 84,395.5 106.2 499.6 Less than Between 1 Between 2 over 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years 31 March 2009 m m m m Borrowings 2.3 180.0 193.8 250.0 trade and other payables 112.9 CCp liabilities 35,679.2 35,794.4 180.0 193.8 250.0 3.
Significant judgements and estimates Judgements and estimates are regularly evaluated based on historical experience, current circumstances and expectations of future events.
the critical judgements and estimates made in the preparation of the financial statements are set out below.
the actual outcome may be materially different from that anticipated: a Goodwill is tested for impairment annually.
the recoverable amounts of relevant cash generating units are based on value in use calculations using managements best estimate of future performance and estimates of the return required by shareholders to determine an appropriate discount rate: b the determination of the defined benefit pension asset or liability is based on the present value of future pension obligations using assumptions determined by the Group with advice from an independent qualified actuary: c purchased intangible assets are valued on acquisition using appropriate methodologies and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives.
these valuations and lives are based on managements best estimates of future performance and periods over which value from the intangible assets is realised: d the property provision is determined taking into consideration future expected receipts from sub-letting and future property costs based on advice from independent property advisers: e estimates are required in determining the provision for corporation taxes.
the Group recognises liabilities for the estimated tax charge at the period end and where the final tax liability is different from that estimate, such differences are reflected in the period in which such determination is made: and f the determination in the financial statements of the value of subsidiary companies for the purpose of impairment testing is based on their forecast cash flows and an appropriate discount rate.
the basis of such values cannot be precise and is subject to market variations in both cases.
72 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information 4.
Segmental information Segmental disclosures for the year ended 31 March 2010 are shown below.
Information & capital Post trade technology Markets Services Services other group m m m m m Revenue 287.4 100.0 216.6 1.6 605.6 net interest income through ccP business 16.2 16.2 other income 6.5 6.5 total income 287.4 116.2 216.6 8.1 628.3 Expenses Depreciation and non-acquisition software amortisation 34.3 3.5 24.3 0.7 62.8 other non-exceptional expenses 146.1 42.2 92.7 5.8 286.8 Share of loss profit after tax of joint venture associates 1.9 3.5 1.6 operating profit before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and exceptional items 105.1 70.5 103.1 1.6 280.3 Amortisation of purchased intangibles 54.3 exceptional costs 43.7 operating profit 182.3 net finance expense 40.7 profit on disposal of shares in subsidaries 2.7 Profit before taxation 144.3 net interest income through CCp business of 16.2m comprises gross interest income of 498.3m less gross interest expense of 482.1m.
Comparative segmental disclosures for the year ended 31 March 2009 are as follows: Information & capital Post trade technology Markets Services Services other group m m m m m Revenue 341.5 91.6 207.5 4.1 644.7 Interest income through ccP business 20.8 20.8 other income 5.9 5.9 total income 341.5 112.4 207.5 10.0 671.4 Expenses Depreciation and non-acquisition software amortisation 16.9 3.3 15.5 0.7 36.4 other non-exceptional expenses 159.9 38.7 78.8 19.0 296.4 Share of loss profit after tax of joint ventures associates 0.1 2.2 2.1 operating profit before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and exceptional items 164.6 70.4 115.4 9.7 340.7 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 49.4 exceptional costs 15.2 operating profit before impairment 276.1 Impairment of goodwill 484.0 operating loss 207.9 net finance expense 44.9 profit on disposal of shares in associates 2.0 Loss before taxation 250.8 net interest income through CCp business of 20.8m comprises gross interest income of 671.0m less gross interest expense of 650.2m.
the comparatives are shown following restatement of the segmental disclosure.
London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 73 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Geographical disclosure 2010 2009 m m Revenue uK 292.5 343.7 Italy 163.0 149.9 other 150.1 151.1 total 605.6 644.7 Revenue is allocated based on the country in which the customer is located.
Expenses by nature expenses comprise the following: 2010 2009 notes m m employee costs 6 111.0 113.3 Depreciation and non acquisition software amortisation 62.8 36.4 Amortisation of purchased intangibles assets and exceptional costs 7 98.0 64.6 other costs 175.8 183.1 total before impairment 447.6 397.4 Goodwill impairment 13 484.0 total expenses 447.6 881.4 Foreign exchange gains or losses included in the income statement are immaterial.
Employee costs employee costs comprise the following: 2010 2009 notes m m Salaries and other short term benefits 84.5 82.4 Social security costs 15.5 13.9 pension costs 19 7.5 6.8 Share based compensation 35 3.5 10.2 total 111.0 113.3 2010 2009 the number of employees in the Group was: Uk Italy Sri Lanka other total Uk Italy total At the year end 539 458 461 30 1,488 570 565 1,135 1 Average for the year 568 496 453 28 1,545 592 583 1,175 the employees within Sri lanka arose from the acquisition of MillenniumIt.
the employees within euro MtS and MtS next are shown in the uK headcount figures in 2010 compared to Italy in the prior year, to reflect the principal location of these employees.
the Company has no employees.
1 Average from date of acquisition.
74 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information 7.
Impairment, amortisation of purchased intangible assets and exceptional items 2010 2009 notes m m Impairment of goodwill 13 484.0 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 54.3 49.4 Restructuring costs 30.1 Integration costs 13.6 15.2 total affecting operating profit 98.0 548.6 profit on disposal of shares in subsidiary 0.3 exceptional finance expenses: Bond adjustment to reflect changes in valuation of cash flows 3.7 loss on cash flow hedge recycled to income statement 7.9 loss on gilt lock contract in the year 2.7 total affecting profit before tax 97.7 555.5 tax effect on items affecting profit before tax and tax exceptional items Deferred tax on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 9.4 8.5 tax effect on other items affecting profit before tax 11.9 6.2 total tax effect on items affecting profit before tax and tax exceptional items 21.3 14.7 total charge to income statement 76.4 540.8 Restructuring costs comprise 17.1m one-off implementation costs arising from the cost savings programme announced in July 2009 resulting in a reduction of 133 heads, and the departure of the Deputy Chief executive, and 13.0m of property restructuring costs relating to the subletting of part of our paternoster Square premises.
the property restructuring costs include provision for onerous lease costs and the write off of prior leasehold improvements.
Current year integration costs include 12.4m related to the acquisition of turquoise trading ltd and the associated costs of integrating them with the Group together with 0.9m 2009: 15.2m of residual costs related to the integration of the businesses of the london Stock exchange and Borsa Italiana.
Net finance expense 2010 2009 notes m m Finance income Bank deposit and other interest income 2.5 7.5 expected return on defined benefit pension scheme assets 19 11.8 13.0 Fair value gains on financial instruments 0.6 Investment income 0.3 0.3 15.2 20.8 Finance expense Interest payable on bank and other borrowings 38.9 40.4 other finance costs 1.2 2.8 Interest on discounted provision for leasehold properties 1.2 1.2 Defined benefit pension scheme interest cost 14.6 14.4 55.9 58.8 Exceptional finance expense Bond adjustment to reflect change in future coupon 3.7 loss on cash flow hedge recycled to income statement 7.9 loss on gilt lock contract in the year 2.7 total exceptional finance expense 6.9 total finance expense 55.9 65.7 net finance expense 40.7 44.9 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 75 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 9.
Taxation 2010 2009 taxation charged to the income statement m m Current tax: uK corporation tax for the year at 28% 27.8 42.4 overseas tax for the year 37.4 46.7 Adjustments in respect of previous years 6.9 4.3 58.3 84.8 Deferred tax see note 17 : Deferred tax for the current year 2.1 3.1 Adjustments in respect of previous years 1.6 2.6 Deferred tax on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 9.4 8.5 taxation charge 52.6 82.0 the adjustments in respect of previous years' corporation tax are mainly in respect of tax returns agreed with relevant tax authorities.
2010 2009 taxation on items not credited charged to income statement m m Current tax credit : tax allowance on share options awards in excess of expense recognised 0.4 1.1 Deferred tax charge credit : Defined benefit pension scheme actuarial losses 0.5 3.2 tax allowance on share options awards less than greater than expense recognised 0.6 2.1 1.5 2.2 Factors affecting the tax charge for the year the reconciling items between the profits multiplied by the uK rate of corporation tax rate 28 per cent and the income statement tax charge for the year are explained below: 2010 2009 m m profit loss before taxation 144.3 250.8 profit loss multiplied by the uK rate of corporation tax at 28% 40.4 70.2 expenses not deductible 2.6 10.5 Impairment of goodwill 135.5 Share of joint venture and associates consolidated at profit loss after tax 0.5 0.6 overseas earnings taxed at higher rate 9.7 3.2 Adjustments in respect of previous years 5.3 1.7 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 5.7 5.3 taxation charge 52.6 82.0 the weighted average statutory tax rate for the Group was 30 per cent 2009: 30 per cent.
76 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information 10.
Earnings per share earnings per share is presented on four bases: basic earnings per share: diluted earnings per share: adjusted basic earnings per share: and adjusted diluted earnings per share.
Basic earnings per share is in respect of all activities and diluted earnings per share takes into account the dilution effects which would arise on conversion or vesting of share options and share awards under the employee Share ownership plan eSop.
Adjusted basic earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share exclude acquisition impairment and amortisation, and exceptional items to enable comparison of the underlying earnings of the business with prior periods.
2010 2009 Basic earnings loss per share 33.8p 126.1 p diluted earnings loss per share 33.5p 126.1 p adjusted basic earnings per share 60.1p 74.2p adjusted diluted earnings per share 59.6p 73.6p m m Profit loss for the financial year attributable to equity holders 90.4 338.0 adjustments: Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 54.3 49.4 Impairment of goodwill 484.0 Restructuring costs 30.1 Integration costs 13.6 15.2 exceptional profit on disposal of shares in subsidiary 0.3 exceptional finance expenses 6.9 tax effect of amortisation and exceptional items and tax exceptional item 21.3 14.7 exceptional items, amortisation and taxation attributable to minority interests 6.0 3.9 adjusted profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders 160.8 198.9 Weighted average number of shares million 267.6 268.1 effect of dilutive share options and awards million 2.4 diluted weighted average number of shares million 270.0 268.1 the weighted average number of shares excludes those held in the eSop.
the effect of dilutive share options only applies to periods in which there is a profit.
the effect of dilutive share options and awards at 31 March 2010 was 2.4 million 2009: 2.0 million.
Dividends 2010 2009 m m Final dividend for 2009 paid August 2009: 16.0p per ordinary share 2008: 16.0p 42.7 42.9 Interim dividend for 2010 paid January 2010: 8.4p per ordinary share 2009: 8.4p 22.5 22.4 65.2 65.3 the Board has proposed a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2010 of 16.0p per share, which is estimated to amount to 42.9m, to be paid on 16 August 2010.
London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 77 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 12.
78 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information 13.
the goodwill of 730.2m 2009: 748.2m arising on consolidation primarily represents the growth potential and assembled workforces of the Borsa Italiana group, MillenniumIt and turquoise.
the Company has no intangible assets.
London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 79 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to ten cash generating units CGus.
the composition of the Borsa Italiana groups seven CGus as at 31 March 2009 was reallocated on 1 April 2009 to reflect the impact of the restructuring of the Groups segments, as set out in note 1.
Consequently, the Borsa Italiana group now comprises six CGus Issuer, equities trading, Derivatives trading, Fixed Income trading, Information & technology Services and post trade Services, with goodwill previously associated with the Borsa Italiana groups other CGu now allocated to these current six CGus.
MillenniumIt comprises two CGus Software and enterprise Service provider, and turquoise and eDX constitute one CGu each.
Goodwill associated with proquote was fully written off during the year ended 31 March 2009. the recoverable amounts of these CGus have been determined based on value in use calculations, using discounted cash flow projections prepared by management covering the five year period ending 31 March 2015, with the exception of turquoise for which reference has been made to a recent third party transaction.
Cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using the estimated long term growth rates and applying the pre-tax discount rates referred to below.
the amount of the net book value of goodwill allocated to each CGu is set out below.
net book value of goodwill Pre-tax discount Impact of rate used in restructuring of Foreign value in use 31 March 2009 segments additions disposals exchange 31 March 2010 calculations cash generating unit m m m m m m Borsa Italiana group: Issuer 26.0 5.7 0.8 19.5 12.9% equities trading 68.5 2.5 66.0 13.1% Derivatives trading 30.7 1.1 29.6 12.9% Fixed Income trading 71.3 6.3 3.0 74.6 11.8% Information & technology Services 146.9 5.0 5.2 136.7 13.1% post trade Services 385.9 22.8 15.1 393.6 11.8% other 18.4 18.4 n A MillenniumIt: Software 0.8 0.1 0.9 20.5% enterprise Service provider 0.7 0.1 0.8 18.1% turquoise 8.7 0.4 8.3 n A eDX 0.5 0.3 0.2 15.8% 748.2 10.2 0.7 27.5 730.2 Management has based its value in use calculations for each CGu on key assumptions about short and medium term revenue and cost growth, long term economic growth rates used to determine terminal values and pre-tax discount rates.
the values assigned to short and medium term revenue and cost growth assumptions reflect current trends, anticipated market developments, discussions with customers and suppliers, and managements experience, taking account of an expected recovery in underlying financial markets.
long term growth rates assumed to be 2.3 per cent for each of the Borsa Italiana group CGus, 3.0 per cent for MillenniumIts Software CGu, turquoise and eDX, and 12.7 per cent for MillenniumIts enterprise Service provider CGu represent managements internal forecasts based on external estimates of GDp and inflation for the ten year period 1 January 2005 to 31 December 2014, and do not exceed the long term average growth rates for the countries in which the CGus operate.
pre-tax discount rates are based on a number of factors including the risk-free rates in Italy, Sri lanka and the uK, as appropriate, the Groups estimated market risk premium and a premium to reflect the inherent risks of each of the CGus.
Value in use calculations for each CGu are sensitive to changes in short and medium term revenue and cost growth assumptions, long term growth rates and pre-tax discount rates.
the impact on value in use of a change in these assumptions is shown below: 80 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Impact on value in use of: Excess of value in use 0.5% reduction 0.5% increase over carrying 5% reduction 5% increase in in long-term in pre-tax value in revenues costs growth rate discount rate cash generating unit m m m m m Borsa Italiana group: Issuer 0.1 9.0 5.0 4.3 5.6 equities trading 30.2 20.6 9.5 11.9 15.4 Derivatives trading 21.3 7.0 2.9 4.3 5.5 Fixed Income trading 89.2 33.1 15.2 19.8 25.3 Information & technology Services 67.2 26.6 9.9 16.2 20.8 post trade Services 39.1 66.0 30.1 37.0 47.4 Management believes goodwill allocated to MillenniumIt, turquoise and eDX CGus is unlikely to be impaired under any reasonable changes to key assumptions.
the excess of value in use over carrying value is determined by reference to the carrying value, post impairment charge, as at 31 March 2010.
Revenue and cost sensitivities assume a five per cent change in revenues or costs for each of the five years in the value in use calculations.
Investment in joint ventures the Group owns 50 per cent of the 1,000 1 issued equity shares in FtSe International ltd FtSe, a company incorporated in Great Britain which distributes financial information.
FtSe is a joint venture with the Financial times ltd, a subsidiary of pearson plc.
the Groups investment of 2.3m at 31 March 2010 represents the Groups share of the joint ventures net assets as at 31 December 2009, FtSes accounting reference date, adjusted for subsequent dividends received.
the following amounts represent the Groups 50 per cent share of the revenue and expenses and assets and liabilities of FtSe for the years ended 31 December 2008 and 2009. december december 2009 2008 m m Revenue 43.9 36.7 expenses, including tax 40.4 34.3 profit after tax 3.5 2.4 non-current assets 7.7 4.7 Current assets 21.1 16.2 total assets 28.8 20.9 Current liabilities 23.9 18.0 non-current liabilities 1.1 0.5 total liabilities 25.0 18.5 net assets 3.8 2.4 the Group has a 49 per cent interest in toKYo AIM, a company incorporated in Japan to provide secondary market listings in tokyo.
toKYo AIM is a joint venture with tokyo Stock exchange Group, a company incorporated in Japan, and the Group has recognised its 2.0m share of toKYo AIMs loss in the income statement.
2010 2009 m m Share of net assets of FtSe at 31 December 2009 3.8 2.4 Dividend paid by FtSe in March 2010 1.5 1.3 Share of net assets toKYo AIM at 31 March 2010 4.8 0.6 Investment in joint ventures at 31 March 7.1 1.7 the Group is entitled, under a shareholders agreement, to receive royalties from FtSe.
the amount receivable by the Group from FtSe for the year ended 31 March 2010 was 9.6m 2009: 8.2m.
During the year the Group received dividends of 2.3m 2009: 3.5m from FtSe.
the final dividend for 2009, of which the Groups share is 1.5m 2008: 1.3m, was approved by the shareholders and paid after the publication of FtSes 31 December 2009 results.
London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 81 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 15.
Investment in associates 2010 2009 m m 1 April 1.9 2.3 Share of profit loss after tax 0.1 0.1 Share of capital decrease and dividend distribution 0.1 Disposal 0.3 0.6 Foreign exchange 0.2 0.4 31 March 1.5 1.9 the Groups share of the results of its principal associates, all of which are unlisted and have a reporting date of 31 December 2009, and its aggregated assets and liabilities are as follows: assets Liabilities Revenues Profit country of incorporation m m m m % interest held MtS France SA France 2.5 0.7 1.6 22.5 MtS Associated Markets Belgium 2.2 0.8 1.7 0.1 20.0 MtS portugal SA portugal 2.1 0.2 0.9 15.0 MtS espaa SA Spain 1.2 0.2 1.0 30.0 16.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings Shares Loans total company m m m 1 April 2008 4,590.3 57.2 4,533.1 Impairment 768.9 768.9 Disposal of Borsa Italiana S. p. A.
1,322.1 1,322.1 Acquisition of london Stock exchange Group Holdings Italy ltd 905.2 416.9 1,322.1 other movements during the year 15.9 15.9 1 April 2009 3,404.5 343.8 3,748.3 Acquisition of london Stock exchange Group Holdings uK ltd 7.0 7.0 other movements during the year 10.7 10.7 31 March 2010 3,411.5 333.1 3,744.6 During the prior year the Company acquired london Stock exchange Group Holdings uK ltd for a nominal value.
Based on the results of the impairment tests performed in respect of the Borsa Italiana group goodwill referred to in note 13 and london Stock exchange plc, no impairment of the carrying value of the Companys investment in london Stock exchange Group Holdings Italy or london Stock exchange plc was considered necessary.
82 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information country of Principal country of principal % equity and Principal subsidiaries: activity incorporation operations votes held held directly by the company: london Stock exchange plc Recognised investment exchange uK uK 100 london Stock exchange Group Holdings Italy ltd Holding company uK uK 100 london Stock exchange Group Holdings ltd Holding company uK uK 100 held indirectly by the company Borsa Italiana S. p. A. Recognised investment exchange Italy Italy 99.96 Cassa di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. CCp for clearing Italy Italy 86.36 Monte titoli S. p. A. pre-settlement, settlement and Italy Italy 98.77 centralised custody Servizio titoli S. p. A.
Corporate secretary advisory Italy Italy 90 BIt Market Services S. p. A.
Retail information services & market Italy Italy 99.96 technology Societa per il Mercato dei titoli di Stato S. p. A.
Wholesale fixed income bonds Italy Italy 60.37 euroMtS ltd Wholesale fixed income bonds uK uK 60.37 MtSnext ltd Wholesale fixed income bonds uK uK 60.37 eDX london ltd Derivatives exchange uK uK 80.1 proquote ltd Market data provider uK uK 100 turquoise Global Holding ltd Holding company uK uK 51 Baikal Global ltd trading facility uK uK 51 turquoise trading ltd Holding company uK uK 51 turquoise Services ltd trading facility uK uK 51 Millennium Information technologies ltd Holding company Sri lanka Sri lanka 100 Millennium Information technologies Software ltd It solutions provider Sri lanka Sri lanka 100 In May 2009, the Group sold 19.9 per cent of equity in eDX london ltd to tMX Group Inc. for a profit of 2.4m.
the Group acquired 100 per cent of the share capital of Millennium Information technologies ltd and 51 per cent of turquoise trading ltd in the year.
london Stock exchange Group plc holds directly or indirectly 100 per cent of the ordinary shares, being the only class of shares in issue, of certain other subsidiaries, none of which has actively traded during the year.
A full list of subsidiaries will be annexed to the next annual return of london Stock exchange Group plc.
London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 83 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 17.
Deferred taxation the movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are shown below.
acquisition Provisions accelerated deferred and other tax tax and temporary depreciation amortisation differences total group m m m m 1 April 2008 1.1 93.8 7.0 85.7 tax credited charged to income statement: other movements to the income statement during the year 1.8 8.5 3.9 2.8 tax credited to other comprehensive income: defined benefit pension scheme actuarial loss 3.2 3.2 allowance on share options awards 2.1 2.1 foreign exchange 14.2 0.4 13.8 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.2 0.2 Balance sheet transfer of pre-acquisition balances 1.8 1.8 31 March 2009 0.7 101.5 4.6 97.6 tax credited charged to the income statement: other movements to the income statement during the year 0.8 9.4 2.8 5.8 tax credited to other comprehensive income: defined benefit pension scheme actuarial loss 0.5 0.5 allowance on share options awards 0.6 0.6 foreign exchange 3.0 3.0 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.4 0.4 31 March 2010 1.5 89.5 2.9 88.1 assets at 31 March 2010 0.2 6.0 6.2 Liabilities at 31 March 2010 1.7 89.5 3.1 94.3 net liabilities assets at 31 March 2010 1.5 89.5 2.9 88.1 Assets at 31 March 2009 0.2 5.5 5.7 liabilities at 31 March 2009 0.9 101.5 0.9 103.3 net liabilities assets at 31 March 2009 0.7 101.5 4.6 97.6 the deferred tax assets are recoverable against future taxable profits and are due after more than one year.
the purchased intangible assets of Borsa Italiana S. p. A. create a deferred tax liability due to the difference between their accounting and tax treatment.
this liability is amortised at the same rate as the intangible assets.
the liability is subject to foreign exchange differences, which are taken to the statement of changes in equity.
there was no deferred tax in the Company.
the Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets of 39m 2009: 36m in respect of capital losses of 33m and trading losses of 6m.
the assets will only be recognised in the future should suitable taxable income arise within the Group, 18.
Available for sale investments Available for sale financial investments of 0.4m 2009: 0.4m represent the cost of the Groups 0.6 per cent interest in the unlisted ordinary shares of euroclear plc.
the fair value of these shares cannot be reliably measured because they are unquoted.
84 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information 19.
Retirement benefit asset obligation the Group operates separate defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
the assets of the defined benefit and defined contribution schemes in the uK are held separately from those of the Group in separate trustee administered funds and the funds are primarily managed by Schroder Investment Management limited, Investec Investment Management limited, newton Fund Managers limited, legal & General Investment Management limited, pIMCo europe limited and Aviva.
the Italian plan relates to the severance and leaving indemnity scheme tFR operated by Borsa Italiana group in accordance with Italian law.
the Company has no retirement benefit obligations.
Defined benefit schemes the uK defined benefit scheme is non-contributory and provides benefits based on final pensionable pay related to salary earned in the last five years of employment.
the scheme was closed to new members in 1999. pension scheme obligations and costs are determined by an independent qualified actuary on a regular basis using the projected unit credit method.
the obligations are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the scheme and are reflected in the Group balance sheet.
the tFR operated by Borsa Italiana group is classified as an unfunded defined benefit scheme for funds accumulated prior to 1 July 2007. the service cost, representing deferred salaries accruing to employees, was included as an operating expense and was determined by law at 6.91 per cent of salary payments subject to certain adjustments.
the scheme obligation comprises accumulated service costs and is revalued by law at a rate equal to 75 per cent of national life price index 1.5 per cent by an independent qualified actuary.
Since 1 July 2007, the Group retains no obligation, as contributions are made directly into Italian state funds in the manner of a defined contribution scheme.
the employee benefit and retirement plan operated by MillenniumIt is classified as a defined benefit plan.
the net obligation in respect of this plan is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
once an employee is continuously employed for more than five years, he or she is entitled to a payment equivalent to half a months gross salary multiplied by the number of years in service at MillenniumIt.
the current obligations in the scheme is 0.6m.
Defined contribution schemes the Groups defined contribution schemes are now the only schemes open to new employees in uK and Italy.
For the uK pension plan, a core contribution of eight per cent of pensionable pay is provided and the Group will match employee contributions up to a maximum of six per cent of pensionable pay.
For the Italian plan, 6.91 per cent of pensionable pay is provided.
amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2010 2009 Uk Pension other plans Uk Pension Italian plan m m m m Defined contribution schemes 4.3 2.4 3.2 2.6 Defined benefit scheme current service cost 0.7 0.1 0.9 0.1 total pension charge included in employee costs see note 6 5.0 2.5 4.1 2.7 Finance income and expense Interest cost 14.3 0.3 14.4 0.4 expected return on assets 11.8 13.0 net finance expense 2.5 0.3 1.4 0.4 total recognised in the income statement 7.5 2.8 5.5 3.1 defined benefit assets obligations for Uk pension scheme 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m Fair value of assets: equities 37.2 25.1 33.2 35.7 69.4 Bonds 218.5 202.6 190.9 185.2 153.3 property 13.3 7.1 8.8 3.7 total fair value of assets 269.0 234.8 232.9 224.6 222.7 present value of funded obligations 264.4 229.8 221.1 239.6 243.0 Surplus deficit 4.6 5.0 11.8 15.0 20.3 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 85 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements the main actuarial assumptions are set out below: 2010 2009 Uk Pension Italian plan Uk Pension Italian plan Inflation rate 3.7% 2.0% 3.1% 2.0% Rate of increase in salaries 5.2% 3.5% 5.1% 3.5% Rate of increase in pensions in payment 4.0% 3.0% 3.7% 3.0% Discount rate 5.5% 4.1% 6.3% 4.2% expected return on assets as at 31 March 2010 and 2009 equities 7.6% 8.2% bonds 5.2% 5.4% property 6.7% 7.2% life expectancy from age 60 years non retired male member 27.7 29.2 non retired female member 30.5 32.7 Retired male member 26.1 27.6 Retired female member 29.0 31.0 expected returns on equities and property are determined by applying an appropriate risk premium to the risk free rate measured with reference to the return on government bonds.
expected returns on bonds are derived from returns on government and corporate bonds of an equivalent term to the investments held.
the mortality assumptions are based on the standard tables S1nA published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries adjusted to take account of projected future improvements in life expectancy from the Self Administered pension Scheme SApS mortality survey, which was published in 2008 March 2009 pA92 tables.
the S1nA base data is derived from pension scheme data from 2000 to 2006 which is more recent than pA92 which was based on insurance death data from the period 1990 to 1994. the change in the assumption has been made on the basis of actuarial guidance to reflect the most current data available on mortality experience within pension schemes.
In both cases we have used an allowance for the medium cohort effect and applied a one per cent underpin in respect of future mortality improvements.
Sensitivities the sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme obligations are: assumption change in assumption Impact on scheme obligations Inflation rate Increase decrease by 0.5% Increase decrease by 0.9m Rate of increase in pensions payment Increase decrease by 0.5% Increase decrease by 12.6m Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.5% Decrease increase by 26.2m Mortality rate Increase by 1 year Increase by 2.7m Movement in defined benefit obligation during the year 2010 2009 Uk Pension other plans Uk Pension Italian plan m m m m 1 April 229.8 8.3 221.1 7.6 obligation arising from acquisition 0.6 Reclassification from to other payables 0.6 0.4 Current service cost 0.7 0.1 0.9 0.1 Interest expense 14.3 0.3 14.4 0.4 Benefits paid 7.0 2.5 6.4 1.1 Actuarial loss gain 27.4 0.2 0.6 Curtailment gain 0.8 Foreign exchange 0.1 1.1 31 March 264.4 7.3 229.8 8.3 86 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Movement in fair value of Uk plan assets during the year 2010 2009 m m 1 April 234.8 232.9 expected return on assets 11.8 13.1 Contributions received 3.8 6.5 Benefits paid 7.0 6.4 Actuarial gain loss 25.6 11.3 31 March 269.0 234.8 the actual return on plan assets was 37.4m 2009: 1.8m.
Defined benefit actuarial gains and losses recognised the experience adjustments and the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions of the pension scheme during the year are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income: 2010 2009 Uk Pension Italian plan Uk Pension Italian plan m m m m Recognised up to 1 April 4.5 1.3 15.5 0.6 net actuarial loss gain recognised in the year 1.8 11.0 0.7 cumulative amount recognised at 31 March 2.7 1.3 4.5 1.3 the last actuarial valuation of the defined benefit scheme was carried out at 31 March 2009 by an independent qualified actuary.
Following the valuation, ordinary contributions were increased from 36 per cent to 41 per cent of pensionable salaries.
the Group expects to contribute approximately 0.8m to the defined benefit scheme during the year to 31 March 2011. the next actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2012 may result in an adjustment to future contribution levels.
the Group estimates the present value of the duration of defined benefit obligations on average fall due over 20 years.
history of experience gains and losses for Uk scheme 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 experience adjustments arising on scheme assets: Gain loss m 25.6 11.2 3.7 10.7 21.8 percentage of scheme assets 9.5% 4.8% 1.6% 4.8% 9.8% experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities: experience gain loss m 7.5 1.3 0.7 0.4 5.2 Impact of changes in assumptions m 34.9 1.1 24.8 11.4 31.0 total m 27.4 0.2 25.5 11.0 25.8 percentage of scheme liabilities experience gain loss 2.8% 0.6% 0.3% 0.2% 2.1% Impact of changes in assumptions 13.2% 0.5% 11.2% 4.8% 12.7% total 10.4% 0.1% 11.5% 4.6% 10.6% 20.
Inventories 2010 2009 group m m Work in progress 1.5 Finished goods 0.7 2.2 the Company has no inventories.
London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 87 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 21.
Trade and other receivables group company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m trade receivables 84,8 72.3 less: provision for impairment of receivables 6.8 6.6 trade receivables net 78.0 65.7 Amounts due from Group undertakings 161.4 169.2 other receivables 5.7 0.9 prepayments and accrued income 48.5 47.9 132.2 114.5 161.4 169.2 the carrying values less impairment provision of trade and other receivables are reasonable approximations of fair values.
trade receivables that are not past due are not considered to be impaired.
the ageing of the Groups past due debtors is as follows: 2010 2009 Impaired not impaired Impaired not impaired m m m m 0 to 3 months past due 0.2 0.9 1.2 Greater than 3 months past due 6.8 4.1 5.8 1.0 6.8 4.3 6.7 2.2 the carrying amounts of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2010 2009 m m Sterling 56.0 52.7 euro 70.9 61.8 other currencies 5.3 132.2 114.5 Movements on the Groups provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2010 2009 m m At 1 April 6.6 0.7 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.1 provision for receivables impairment 0.7 6.0 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 0.2 0.2 provisions no longer required 0.1 0.1 Foreign exchange 0.3 0.2 at 31 March 6.8 6.6 the creation and release of provisions for impaired receivables have been included in operating expense in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
the other classes within trade and other receivables and the other categories of financial assets do not contain impaired assets.
88 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information 22.
Financial instruments by category the financial instruments of the Group and Company are categorised as follows: group company assets at assets at fair value fair value Loans and available through Loans and through receivables for sale profit or loss total receivables profit or loss total 31 March 2010 m m m m m m m assets as per balance sheet Financial assets of the CCp clearing business CCp trading assets 5,467.9 5,467.9 Receivables for repurchase transactions 72,687.0 72,687.0 other receivables from clearing members 1,489.8 1,489.8 Financial assets held at fair value 24.6 24.6 Cash and cash equivalents of clearing members 4,580.7 4,580.7 Financial assets of the CCp clearing business 78,757.5 5,492.5 84,250.0 Assets held at fair value 9.5 9.5 total financial assets for CCp clearing 78,757.5 5,502.0 84,259.5 trade and other receivables 132.2 132.2 199.5 199.5 Cash and cash equivalents 223.1 223.1 Available for sale financial assets 0.4 0.4 Derivative financial instruments 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 total 79,112.8 0.4 5,502.6 84,615.8 199.5 0.6 200.1 group company derivatives derivatives used for other financial used for other financial hedging liabilities total hedging liabilities total 31 March 2010 m m m m m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Financial liabilities of the CCp clearing business CCp trading liabilities 5,467.9 5,467.9 liabilities under repurchase transactions 72,687.0 72,687.0 other payables to clearing members 6,078.3 6,078.3 Financial liabilities held at fair value 24.3 24.3 Financial liabilities of the CCp clearing business 84,257.5 84,257.5 Borrowings 606.7 606.7 606.7 606.7 Derivative financial instruments 19.0 19.0 19.0 19.0 total 19.0 84,864.2 84,883.2 19.0 606.7 625.7 the valuation of assets held at fair value through profit or loss is performed with reference to quoted prices from the markets to which they relate and therefore are all considered to be level 1.
Financial assets of the CCp clearing business substantially offset its financial liabilities.
the significant year on year increase principally reflects the higher number and value of repurchase transactions that remained open on 31 March 2010 together with an increase in the volatility of their nominal values compared to prior reporting dates.
During the period, the Group executed four cross-currency swaps, of 50m each, to exchange a proportion of its sterling bond issue obligations swapping 100m sterling equivalent of each of the 2016 and 2019 250m bond issues into euros.
the swaps are designated part of the Groups net investment hedge and these derivative financial instruments exactly match the term of the respective bonds, the sterling coupon interest rates and their timings and so these hedges are expected to be perfectly effective.
For the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group recognised the movement in mark to market value of these derivatives 16.3m in reserves.
In addition, the Group arranged four new interest rate swaps of 25m each, switching a proportion of its 2016 sterling bond issue obligation from fixed interest rates into floating interest rates, the swaps accounted for as fair value hedges.
these swaps were arranged for a period of two years from January 2009 and are expected to be effective hedges.
At 31 March 2010, the Group recognised the movement in mark to market value of these derivatives 0.6m in the income statement.
London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 89 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements the CCp clearing business assets and liabilities comprise: a CCp trading assets and liabilities the fair value of open positions on the derivatives market IDeM in which CC&G operates as the central counterparty and relate to: i derivative instruments on the S&p MIB index index futures, mini index futures, index options : and ii derivative instruments in respect of individual stocks equity futures, equity options.
b Receivables for liabilities under repurchase transactions Repos the value of repo transactions executed by participants in the MtS market who use the central counterparty guarantee service provided by CC&G refers to the value of transactions for which the spot part has been settled while the forward part has still to be settled.
c other receivables from clearing members Sums receivable as initial margin, variation margin, option premiums and securities as collateral resulting from the activity of participants in the IDeM, MtA and MtS markets.
d other payables to clearing members liability to members for amounts delivered as initial margin, variation margin, option premiums and securities as collateral, resulting from the activity of participants in the IDeM, MtA and MtS markets.
e Assets and liabilities held at fair value i equities and bonds, listed on regulated markets, which CC&G has already withdrawn from the settlement system but has not yet delivered to the intermediaries who have bought them: and ii Securities traded but not yet settled as part of the CCp function.
f Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at bank, representing margins and default fund amounts received in connection with the CCp clearing service.
As at 31 March 2010, there were no provisions for impairment in relation to any of the CCp financial assets 2009: nil and none of these assets were past due 2009: nil.
the financial instruments of the Group and the Company at the previous years balance sheet date were as follows: group company assets at fair Loans and available for value through Loans and receivables sale profit or loss total receivables total 31 March 2009 m m m m m m assets as per balance sheet Financial assets of the CCp clearing business CCp trading assets 5,480.5 5,480.5 Receivables for repurchase transactions 25,302.5 25,302.5 other receivables from clearing members 1,287.6 1,287.6 Financial assets held at fair value 7.3 7.3 Cash and cash equivalents of clearing members 3,596.6 3,596.6 Financial assets of the CCp clearing business 30,186.7 5,487.8 35,674.5 Assets held at fair value 5.0 5.0 total financial assets for CCp clearing 30,186.7 5,492.8 35,679.5 trade and other receivables 114.5 114.5 169.1 169.1 Cash and cash equivalents 143.7 143.7 Available for sale financial assets 0.4 0.4 total 30,444.9 0.4 5,492.8 35,938.1 169.1 169.1 90 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information group company derivatives derivatives used for other financial used for other financial hedging liabilities total hedging liabilities total 31 March 2009 m m m m m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Financial liabilities of the CCp clearing business CCp trading liabilities 5,480.5 5,480.5 liabilities under repurchase transactions 25,302.5 25,302.5 other payables to clearing members 4,889.0 4,889.0 Financial liabilities held at fair value 7.2 7.2 Financial liabilities of the CCp clearing business 35,679.2 35,679.2 Borrowings 624.8 624.8 624.8 624.8 Derivative financial instruments 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 total 1.6 36,304.0 36,305.6 1.6 624.8 626.4 23.
Assets held at fair value 2010 2009 m m Financial assets held at fair value 9.5 5.0 the Groups assets held at fair value consist largely of Italian equities restricted in use for the operations of CC&G as manager of the clearing and guarantee system.
the fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as trading and available-for-sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
the Company has no assets held at fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents group company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Cash at bank 123.8 85.2 0.1 Short term deposits 99.3 58.5 223.1 143.7 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents is held with counterparties of a high credit standing, in interest bearing call accounts, short term deposits and AAA rated liquidity funds.
Management does not expect any losses from non-performance by the counterparties holding cash and cash equivalents, and there are no differences between their book and fair values.
Cash and cash equivalents does not include amounts held by CC&G on behalf of its clearing members, the use of which is restricted to the operation of CC&G as manager of the clearing and guarantee system see note 22.
Cash and cash equivalents does include amounts held by regulated entities for regulatory and operational purposes.
At 31 March 2010, the Group set aside 125m 2009: 125m, for such purposes, with the amount subject to ongoing review with regulators in the uK and Italy.
Trade and other payables group company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m trade payables 15.1 20.1 Amounts owed to Group undertakings note 36 184.6 209.8 Social security and other taxes 20.1 8.8 other payables 25.4 21.1 3.8 3.3 Accruals and deferred income 76.5 62.9 14.9 5.7 137.1 112.9 203.3 218.8 the carrying amounts of trade and other payables are reasonable approximations of fair value.
London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 91 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 26.
Derivative financial instruments group company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m current asset Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 0.6 0.6 current Liability Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 2.7 1.5 2.7 1.5 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.1 2.7 1.6 2.7 1.5 non current Liability Cross currency interest rate swaps 16.3 16.3 the interest rate swaps are used to manage exposure to movements in interest rates.
Debt converted from a fixed to floating rate is designated as a cash flow hedge.
Debt converted from floating to fixed is designated as fair value hedge.
the fair value is determined by reference to observable market interest rates.
the cross currency interest rate swaps are used to change the currency of borrowings to reduce exposure to net assets denominated in currencies other than sterling.
these are designated as a hedge of the Groups net investment in Borsa Italiana and qualify for effective hedge accounting as both legs of the swap are at fixed rate.
the effectiveness of the hedges has been tested by means of a regression analysis and ineffectiveness was found to be negligible.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity on cash flow hedges are recognised in the income statement in the period during which the hedged forecast transaction takes place.
Borrowings group company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m current Bank borrowings and trade finance loans 0.9 Redeemable class B shares 2.3 2.3 0.9 2.3 2.3 non-current Bonds 499.6 252.6 499.6 252.6 Bank borrowings 106.2 369.9 106.2 369.9 605.8 622.5 605.8 622.5 the Group has the following committed unsecured bank facilities: carrying value at 31 March Interest rate Facility 2010 percentage at type Expiry date m m 31 March 2010 Multi-currency revolving credit facility october 2011 25.0 lIBoR 0.8 Multi-currency revolving credit facility February 2012 200.0 lIBoR 1.25 Multi-currency revolving credit facility July 2013 250.0 107.1 lIBoR 0.8 Capitalised bank facility arrangement fees 0.9 total bank facilities 475.0 106.2 notes issued July 2006 July 2016 250.0 252.3 6.125 notes issued June 2009 october 2019 250.0 247.3 9.125 total Bonds 500.0 499.6 total Debt 975.0 605.8 92 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information CC&G has direct intra-day access to refinancing with the Bank of Italy to cover its operational liquidity requirements.
In addition, uncommitted credit lines of 1bn are available from major Italian banks in relation to support of the MtS markets.
If these are drawn they are guaranteed by Italian government bonds.
CC&G also has available to it 125m of committed facilities with banks, available for short term CCp related activity purposes only.
Current borrowings MillenniumIt has a mixture of import loans and overdrafts drawn against on-demand facilities available in Sri lanka.
the import loans are drawn in Sri lankan Rupees lKR and are priced at 2.75 per cent per annum over Sri lankan lIBoR.
the overdrafts are drawn partly in lKR and partly in uSD with pricing at 1.5 per cent per annum and 4 per cent per annum over Sri lankan lIBoR and uS dollar lIBoR respectively.
Non-current borrowings In July 2006, the Company issued a 250m bond which is unsecured and is due for repayment in 2016.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in January and July each year.
the issue price of the bond was 99.679 per 100 nominal.
the coupon on the bond is dependent on the companys credit rating with Moodys.
Moodys rating improved from Baa3 positive outlook to Baa2 stable in February 2009. the bond coupon was 6.375 per cent at the start of the last financial year but the impact of the rating improvement was to reduce the coupon to 6.125 per cent from July 2009. there were no further changes to the coupon during the year.
In June 2009 the Company issued another 250m bond which is unsecured and is due for repayment in 2019.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in April and october each year.
the issue price of the bond was 99.548 per 100 nominal.
the coupon on the bond is dependent on the companys credit rating.
the bond coupon was 9.125 per cent throughout the financial year.
As at 31 March 2010 the Company had drawn 107.1m 2009: 371.5m from its unsecured committed revolving facilities.
Fair values the fair and carrying values of the Groups borrowings are as follows: carrying value Fair value carrying value Fair value 2010 2010 2009 2009 group m m m m Borrowings within one year 0.9 0.9 2.3 2.3 after more than one year 605.8 664.0 622.5 624.1 606.7 664.9 624.8 626.4 the fair and carrying values of the Companys borrowings are as follows: carrying value Fair value carrying value Fair value 2010 2010 2009 2009 company m m m m Borrowings within one year 2.3 2.3 after more than one year 605.8 664.0 622.5 624.2 605.8 664.0 624.8 626.5 the fair values of borrowings are based on discounted cash flows using a market rate based on market borrowing cost.
Floating rate borrowings bear interest at an agreed margin over lIBoR.
the carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 2010 2009 currency m m Sterling 498.7 472.9 euro 107.1 151.9 lKR 0.9 606.7 624.8 During the year, 177.8m of sterling denominated borrowings were swapped into euros effectively reducing total sterling borrowings above to 321.8m and increasing total euro borrowings to 284.0m.
London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 93 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 28.
Analysis of net debt group company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m due within one year Cash and cash equivalents 223.1 143.7 0.1 Bank borrowings 0.9 Redeemable class B shares 2.3 2.3 Derivative financial assets 0.6 0.6 Derivative financial liabilities 2.7 1.6 2.7 220.1 139.8 2.0 2.3 due after one year Bank borrowings 106.2 369.9 106.2 369.9 Bonds 499.6 252.6 499.6 252.6 Derivative financial liabilities 16.3 16.3 total net debt 402.0 482.7 624.1 624.8 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt group company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Increase decrease in cash in the year 82.5 68.6 0.1 Bond issue notes due 2019 248.9 248.9 Bank loan repayments less new drawings 257.3 82.0 257.9 82.0 B share redemptions 2.3 5.3 2.3 5.3 other repayments 1.2 change in net debt resulting from cash flows 93.2 19.9 11.4 87.3 Foreign exchange movements 3.2 13.0 6.6 24.7 Movement on derivative financial assets and liabilities 16.8 6.3 18.4 Bond valuation adjustment 0.5 3.5 0.5 3.5 other non-cash movements 0.6 0.6 net debt at start of year 482.7 499.4 624.8 690.9 net debt at end of year 402.0 482.7 624.1 624.8 29.
Provisions Property other total group m m m 1 April 2008 27.0 1.4 28.4 Charges during the year 2.1 2.1 utilised during the year 3.6 1.4 5.0 Interest on discounted provision 1.2 1.2 31 March 2009 26.7 26.7 Charges during the year 9.2 9.2 utilised during the year 3.2 3.2 Interest on discounted provision 1.2 1.2 31 March 2010 33.9 33.9 Current 3.7 3.7 non-current 30.2 30.2 31 March 2010 33.9 33.9 the property provision represents the estimated net present value of future costs for lease rentals and dilapidation costs less the expected receipts from sub-letting space which is surplus to business requirements.
the leases have between four and 18 years to expiry.
the Company has no provisions.
94 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information 30.
Ordinary share capital 2010 2009 millions m millions m Issued, called up and fully paid 79 ordinary shares of 6 271.1 18.8 270.5 18.7 86p Class B shares of 2 1.1 2.3 18.8 21.0 less: Class B shares designated as borrowings see note 28 2.3 Share capital 18.8 18.7 During the year the Company issued 0.5m shares in october 2009 at an average share price of 9.34 per share and 0.1m shares in February 2010 at an average share price of 6.55 per share in relation to the acquisition of MillenniumIt.
the excess of the consideration over the nominal value has been charged against the merger reserve.
More information about the different classes of share, and rights attaching, is given in the Directors Report on pages 54 and 55 in this Report.
Net cash flow generated from operations group company 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m profit loss before taxation 144.3 250.8 80.4 672.3 Depreciation and amortisation 123.0 85.8 Impairment of goodwill and investments 484.0 768.9 loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.3 0.1 profit on disposal of share of subsidiaries associates 2.7 2.0 net finance expense income 40.7 44.9 135.7 107.9 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures 1.6 2.1 provisions created during the year 9.2 2.1 provisions utilised during the year 3.2 5.0 Increase in inventories 1.1 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 15.5 15.2 38.1 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 8.7 32.7 0.6 0.4 Increase decrease in CCp clearing business liabilities 49,498.8 18,371.5 Increase decrease in CCp financial assets 49,495.8 18,371.2 Defined benefit pension obligation contributions in excess of expenses charged 4.9 6.9 Increase decrease in assets held at fair value from operating activities 4.6 9.9 Share scheme expense 3.5 10.2 Foreign exchange losses gains on operating activities 0.1 0.4 14.3 5.9 cash generated from operations 301.2 352.6 3.5 5.0 Comprising: ongoing operating activities 325.0 378.9 3.5 5.0 exceptional items 23.8 26.3 301.2 352.6 3.5 5.0 non-cash transactions include the issue of shares as consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary discussed in note 33.
Interest on CCp balances is received by CC&G net of withholding tax, which is deducted at source.
this withholding tax is effectively therefore a cash outflow and is therefore shown in the cash flow statement.
Commitments and contingent liabilities Contracted capital commitments and other contracted commitments not provided for in the financial statements of the Group were 2.0m 2009: nil and 3.1m 2009: 7.6m respectively.
the Group will fully fund the cash needs of turquoise, within an agreed framework, for the first 24 months from acquisition.
London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 95 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 33. Business combinations In the year to 31 March 2010 the Group made two acquisitions involving the acquisition of 100 per cent of the issued share capital of each company.
Due to the share for share consideration for turquoise, the Groups shareholding stood at 60 per cent immediately post transaction.
this was reduced to 51 per cent following a disposal of nine per cent of the shareholding on 5 March 2010. acquisitions in the year to 31 March 2010 contribution post-acquisition Fair value of assets operating 1 date acquired consideration goodwill acquired Revenue profit loss company acquired m m m m m Sri Lanka 16 october Millennium Information technologies ltd MillenniumIt 2009 19.1 1.5 17.6 6.7 0.5 Uk 17 February turquoise trading ltd turquoise 2010 16.1 8.7 7.4 0.3 1.8 total 35.2 10.2 25.0 7.0 1.3 1 Consideration includes acquisition costs.
If both acquisitions had occurred on 1 April 2009, estimated Group revenue for the year would have been 613.0m, with operating profit before acquisition amortisation and exceptional items of 263.5m.
these amounts have been calculated using the Groups accounting policies.
the assets and liabilities arising out of each acquisition at the relevant acquisition date are as follows: Millennium Information technologies Ltd turquoise trading Ltd total Fair value Fair value Book value adjustment Book value adjustment Book value Fair value m m m m m m non-current assets: Intangible assets 1.0 14.0 0.7 3.3 1.7 19.0 property, plant and equipment 2.7 1.2 3.9 3.9 other non-current assets 0.6 0.6 0.6 current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 0.1 5.1 5.2 5.2 other current assets 4.2 1.0 5.2 5.2 current liabilities: other current liabilities 4.4 4.1 8.5 8.5 non-current liabilities Deferred tax liability 0.4 0.4 net assets 3.6 14.0 4.5 2.9 8.1 25.0 Goodwill 1.5 8.7 10.2 total consideration 3.6 15.5 4.5 11.6 8.1 35.2 Satisfied by: Cash including transaction fees 16.5 Shares 18.7 35.2 the fair value adjustments include: Millennium Information Technologies Ltd the 14.0m of intangible assets arising on consolidation represents 12.0m of purchased intellectual property, 1.4m of customer contracts, 0.4m of supplier relationships and 0.2m of brand value.
the fair values of these purchased intangible assets are being amortised over their useful economic lives, which do not normally exceed 25 years.
the goodwill of 1.5m arising on consolidation represents the future synergies and growth potential of MillenniumIt as part of the Group and its assembled workforce.
these fair values are still preliminary and will be finalised during the following financial year.
Turquoise Trading Ltd the 3.3m of intangible assets arising on consolidation represents 2.3m of customer relationships, 0.1m of brands and 0.9m of licences.
the fair values of these purchased intangible assets are being amortised over their useful economic lives, which do not normally exceed 96 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information 25 years.
the goodwill of 8.7m arising on consolidation represents the future synergies with the Group and growth potential of turquoise trading ltd and its assembled workforce.
the carrying value of turquoise goodwill as at 31 March 2010 is 8.3m due to a deemed disposal of 0.4m on 5 March 2010 on the sale of a nine per cent interest to third parties.
Leases the Group leases various office properties and equipment under non-cancellable operating leases.
the total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are due as follows: group Property Equipment 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m less than one year 17.0 21.0 1.0 More than one year and less than five years 70.4 75.0 2.1 More than five years 119.6 129.7 207.0 225.7 3.1 operating lease payments of 15.6m 2009: 19.0m were charged to the income statement in the year in relation to property.
no operating lease payments were charged to the income statement in the year in relation to equipment.
the total future minimum lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating leases are due as follows: group 2010 2009 m m less than one year 4.4 8.5 More than one year and less than five years 18.9 26.8 More than five years 18.2 10.6 41.5 45.9 the Company has no lease commitments.
Share schemes the london Stock exchange Group long term Incentive plan ltIp, approved at the 2004 AGM, has two elements, a conditional award of performance Shares and an award of Matching Shares linked to investment by the executive of annual bonus in the Companys shares.
Vesting of these awards is dependent upon the Companys total shareholder return performance and for awards made since 2008 adjusted basic earnings per share.
Further details are provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 53. under the Groups previous share option plan approved by shareholders in 2002, the maximum value of shares placed under option to an individual was equivalent to 100 per cent of their annual salary.
no further awards will be made under this scheme.
prior to 2002, under the previous long-term incentive scheme comprising the Initial and Annual Share plans option grants and share awards were made based on approvals prior to the Groups listing in July 2001. no further option grants or share awards will be made under this scheme apart from the SAYe scheme available to all staff.
under both the Initial and Annual Share plan, share awards have a vesting period of three years and share options become exercisable at 20 per cent per annum over five years with a contractual life of 10 years.
the SAYe scheme and International Sharesave plan provide for grants of options to employees who enter into a SAYe savings contract and options were granted at 20 per cent below fair market value.
Share awards were granted at nil cost to employees and share options were granted at fair market value or above.
A performance-related Restricted Share plan was introduced in 2008. under this plan if the Company meets or exceeds its stretching financial targets for the financial year, deferred shares will be awarded to a limited number of employees who have contributed to this success.
these shares will then be released to individuals 12 months after grant contingent on continued employment.
Any recipient of a long term Incentive plan award in 2008, including executive Directors and other Senior executives, will not participate in the Restricted Share plan.
the Group established an eSop discretionary trust to administer the share plans and to acquire the shares to meet commitments to Group employees.
At the year end 2,874,538 2009: 3,621,781 shares were held by the trust, funded by an interest free loan from the Group.
the Company has no employees, but in accordance with SIC 12 Consolidation Special purpose entities has the obligation for the assets, liabilities, income and costs of the eSop trust and these have been consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
the cost of the Groups shares held by the trust are deducted from retained earnings.
London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 97 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Movements in the number of share options and awards outstanding and their weighted average exercise prices are as follows: Share options SaYE Scheme LtIP Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average number exercise price number exercise price number exercise price At 1 April 2008 1,800,681 3.36 278,436 6.25 2,263,427 Granted 581,672 5.69 2,542,429 exercised 190,945 3.60 82,878 2.75 838,551 Forfeited 7,062 3.88 153,019 8.94 337,963 At 31 March 2009 1,602,674 3.33 624,211 5.53 3,629,342 Granted 64,960 3.45 2,649,045 exercised 333,299 3.37 80,656 3.50 340,267 Forfeited 5,838 3.45 98,584 6.06 1,286,488 at 31 March 2010 1,328,497 3.32 444,971 5.79 4,651,632 exercisable at: 31 March 2010 1,269,105 3.17 9,425 10.26 31 March 2009 1,602,674 3.33 10,284 the weighted average share price during the year was 7.40 2009: 7.05. the range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life of awards and options outstanding are as follows: awards options outstanding awards options outstanding 2010 2009 Weighted Weighted average average remaining remaining number contractual life number contractual life Exercise price range outstanding Years outstanding Years Share options up to 3 312,250 0.2 341,880 1.0 Between 3 and 4 952,837 2.1 1,197,384 3.7 Above 4 63,410 0.1 63,410 2.2 SaYE Between 2 and 4 64,279 0.9 Between 5 and 6 435,546 1.4 542,352 2.9 Above 10 9,425 0.1 17,580 1.3 LtIP nil 4,651,632 1.7 3,629,342 1.8 total 6,425,100 1.8 5,856,227 2.2 the fair value of share awards and share options granted during the year was determined using a stochastic valuation model.
the key assumptions used in the valuation were as follows: Matching Matching Performance Performance Performance company share shares shares shares Matching shares option plan 25 november 25 november 16-28 July 25 September 16 September 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 Grant date share price 814.5p 814.5p 681.5p - 682.5p 839.5p 860.5p exercise price n a n a n a n a 808.0p Volatility 54% 54% 53% 54% 54% expected life 2 - 3.25 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Dividend yield 3.00% 3.00% 3.60% 2.90% 2.80% Fair value 7.67 - 7.39 2.95 Fair value tSR 4.83 3.93 4.99 Fair value epS 7.44 6.12 7.70 the volatility assumption is based on a statistical analysis of weekly share prices since the london Stock exchanges flotation in July 2001. the fair value for the performance and Matching Shares granted during the year is based on a total Shareholder Return tSR pricing model which takes account of the tSR vesting condition.
the fair value of all other shares granted is based on a Black-Scholes model.
Holders of share awards and share options are not entitled to receive dividends declared during the vesting period.
98 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information 36.
Transactions with related parties FTSE International Ltd Details of transactions with FtSe International ltd are included in note 14.
Key management compensation Compensation for Directors of the Company and key personnel who have authority for planning, directing and controlling the Group: 2010 2009 m m Salaries and other short term benefits 7.1 6.8 pensions 0.5 0.2 Share based payments 2.0 7.6 9.0 Inter-company transactions with subsidiary undertakings the Company has loan agreements with some of its subsidiary companies.
Details as at 31 March 2010 are shown in the table below: amount due owed as at 31 March Interest rate as at Interest credit charge Loan counterparty 2010 2009 term 31 March 2010 2010 2009 lSe plc 178.5 m 198.2 25 years from May lIBoR plus 2% 6.7 m 12.0 m 2006 with five equal per annum annual repayments commencing in May 2027. london Stock exchange 21.0m 60.5m Repayable on demand.
non-interest bearing nil nil employee Benefit trust london Stock exchange 450.0m 450.0m 5 years from March euRIBoR plus 4.0% 26.6m nil Group Holdings Italy 2009, repayable in per annum limited Italian Branch full on maturity in March 2014. london Stock exchange 89.5m nil 20 years from euRIBoR plus 1.2% 1.2m nil Group Holdings Italy January 2008 with per annum limited Italian Branch 5 equal repayments commencing in January 2024.
Borsa Italiana nil 109.0m 20 years from euRIBoR plus 1.2% 1.2m 7.3m S. p. A. January 2008 with per annum 5 equal repayments commencing in January 2024. london Stock exchange 33.8m nil Fifth anniversary of lIBoR plus 4.0% 0.5m nil Group Holdings limited the initial utilisation per annum date which was october 2009.
MillenniumIt limited nil nil First anniversary of the lIBoR plus 4.0% nil nil initial utilisation date.
per annum During the year the Company charged in respect of employee share schemes 2.1m 2009: 4.9m to the london Stock exchange plc, 1.1m 2009: 4.7m to london Stock exchange Group Holdings Italy ltd and 0.1m to Millennium Information technologies ltd. the Company received dividends of 109.0m 2009: 117.9m, 51.1m 2009: nil and nil 2009: 56.6m respectively from its subsidiaries london Stock exchange plc, london Stock exchange Group Holdings Italy ltd and Borsa Italiana S. p. A.. London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 99 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 37.
Other statutory information Auditors remuneration payable to  llp and its associates comprise the following: 2010 2009 m m Audit of parent company and consolidated accounts 0.2 0.2 Audit of subsidiary companies 1.1 1.1 other fees: taxation 0.3 0.3 Corporate finance 0.3 0.3 other assurance services 0.1 2.0 1.9 Directors emoluments comprise the following: 2010 2009 m m Salary and fees including cash payments in lieu of pension contributions 3.8 3.3 performance bonus 1.9 1.6 Gains on exercise of share options 0.6 Benefits 0.2 0.1 5.9 5.6 Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 0.1 0.1 6.0 5.7 During the year two Directors 2009: two had retirement benefits accruing under defined contribution schemes and no Director 2009: none had retirement benefits accruing under a defined benefit scheme.
Further details of Directors emoluments are included in the Remuneration report on pages 44 to 53.
100 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010
