Governance Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Going Concern the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Introduction, Business Review and in the Market Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Position and Outlook, on pages one to 35.
In particular, the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors current economic conditions have created a number of risks have prepared the Group and Company financial statements in and uncertainties for the Group and these are set out in Principal accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Risks and Uncertainties on pages 32 to 35.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view The financial risk management objectives and policies of the of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of Group and the exposure of the Group to capital risk, credit risk, the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
market risk and liquidity risk are discussed on pages 68 to 72.
The Group continues to meet Group and individual entity capital In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are requirements and day-to-day liquidity needs through the Groups required to: cash resources and available credit facilities.
Committed funding at 31 March 2010 increased to 975 million 2009: 905 million Select suitable accounting policies and then apply of which 950 million is committed until February 2012 or beyond, them consistently: described further in the Financial Review on pages 26 to 29.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The Directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and State that the financial statements comply with IFRSs projections, taking into account reasonably possible changes in as adopted by the European Union: and trading performance, which show that the Group has sufficient Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, financial resources.
On the basis of this review, and after making unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that continue in business.
the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Directors Responsibility Statement records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are set out on the financial position of the Company and the Group and to page 37 of this Annual Report, confirm that, to the best of their enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the knowledge and belief: Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: and reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and The Directors report contained in the Annual Report includes other irregularities.
a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and Group taken The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks of the companys website and legislation in the United Kingdom and uncertainties that they face.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board Lisa Condron Group Company Secretary 21 may 2010 58 London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010
