Shareholder information How the markets work To understand all the services offered by a diversified exchange business, it is important to recognise both the process of trading financial instruments, and the various trading platforms available within the EU.
With an effective date of introduction of November 2007, the EUs MiFID sought to increase competition and consumer protection in investment services.
Information provided here focuses on two main areas: thE procESS of trading procESS ExpLanation LSE groupS invoLvEmEnt ELEctronic trading Computerised systems for matching orders of Equities London and Italian financial instruments, such as equities, bonds trading platforms and derivatives.
ETFs, ETCs London and Italian trading platforms Bonds MTS and MOT Derivatives EDX, IDEM and IDEX cLEaring After a trade has been matched, usually by a CC&G acts as a CCP for Italian trading system, it is cleared.
At this stage, a central cash equities, derivatives and counterparty CCP stands between the buyer fixed income.
By simultaneously buying from the seller, and selling to the buyer, the CCp reduces the counterparty risk to both parties.
this is because if one party defaults, the CCP will manage the loss using margin collected.
SEttLEmEnt Settlement is the process of delivering title to the Monte Titoli operates the X-TRM financial instrument to the buyer against payment to and EXPRESS II systems, which the seller.
For equities, this normally takes place three cover Italian pre-settlement and days after the trade.
netted settlement reduces a settlement, creating netted large number of positions to a single position payment.
settlement instructions, making the actual payments and delivering securities.
cuStody A custodian or Central Securities Depositary CSD Monte Titoli provides Italian undertakes the safekeeping and administration of custody services for all the securities on behalf of issuers and investors.
financial instruments it holds, whether dematerialised or in paper form.
fide-materialised securities are those that can be held without the need for paper certificates.
102 London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 poSt tradE Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information trading undEr mifid ExpLanation attributES LSE groupS invoLvEmEnt ExchangE modEL Traded through trading platforms run by Regulated Trading platforms offered for trading an operator of a regulated market.
Order driven by the London Stock Neutral exchange and Transparent Borsa Italiana, including Liquid securities listed on the Widest stock Groups primary markets coverage Widest client base Reported business done off order book Telephone On exchange trade reporting and reported to regulated market.
trading and publication MTF services provided mtf MiFID allowed for the setting up of Regulated through turquoise Multilateral Trading Facilities MTF, new Order driven pan-European trading ventures thereby Neutral promoting venue choice.
trading is of Transparent securities listed on the primary market Can include dark of a regulated exchange.
pool trading otc over the counter otC negotiated Regulated OTC trade reporting and market operated by electronic networks Large or block publication service or telephone.
electronically connected trades market consisting of dealers who are Way to trade less in constant contact thereby facilitating liquid stock trading directly between two parties.
OTC accounts for approximately 40-50 per cent of equity trades throughout europe by value.
What iS dark pooL trading?
Private trading networks within Europe these are MTFs developed to enable the internal matching of orders between buyers and sellers without being visible until the trade is complete, thereby creating a regulated environment in which to execute larger trades.
Turquoise, the Groups pan-European MTF provides a dark pool service, as well as Lit trading whereby traders can see potential buy and sell orders in advance.
Brokers also operate OTC dark pools.
London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 103
