104 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Shareholder and Company Information Shareholder calendar Dividends Man normally pays a final dividend in July and an interim dividend in Interim results announced November December.
The dates for the 2010 final dividend can be found in the Interim dividend paid December table below and historical dividend information is available on the Man Final results announced May Group website under Shareholder Information.
Annual Report published June Annual General Meeting July 2010 final dividend dates Final dividend paid July Ex dividend date 30 June 2010 Record date 2 July 2010 Shareholder enquiries DRIP election date 2 July 2010 Man Groups register of shareholders is maintained by Equiniti as AGM to approve the final dividend 8 July 2010 the Companys Registrar.
Many aspects of your shareholding, such Payment date 20 July 2010 as updating your personal details and checking your shareholding DRIP certificates received CREST and dividend payments, can be managed by logging on to Equinitis accounts credited 26 July 2010 website www.
To do this, you will need your shareholder reference number which can be found on your share certificate or dividend tax voucher.
Dividend payments made direct to your bank account For enquiries about your shareholding, you can also contact Equiniti If you currently have your dividends paid to you by cheque, you in writing at Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West can, if you wish, request that they be paid directly into your bank or 1 Sussex BN99 6DA, or by telephone on 0871 384 2112 or Text tel building society account on the day that the dividend is paid.
Callers from outside the UK is more convenient and helps reduce the risk of cheques becoming should telephone 44 121 415 7592. lost or delayed in the post.
The associated tax voucher will still be sent direct to your registered address.
You can download a Corporate website dividend mandate form from our website www.
com, Man Group maintains a substantial amount of information on our under the Shareholder Information pages of the Investor Relations corporate website www.
The website includes section, or from Equinitis Shareview website www.
co. uk information about the industry in which we operate, our strategy shareholders.
Alternatively you can contact Equiniti on 0871 384 1 and business performance and incorporates an analysts workbook 2112, who will also be able to assist with any questions you may have.
There is also information on corporate responsibility initiatives, careers opportunities at Man and If you live overseas, Equiniti offers an Overseas Payment Service which key information for shareholders such as dividend payment schedules is available in certain countries.
This may make it possible to receive 2 and share price information.
You can also download current and past dividends direct into your bank account in your local currency.
Further Annual and Interim Reports under the Investor Relations section of information can be found at www.
co. uk shareholders or via 1 the website.
E-communications Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP The Company now offers shareholders the opportunity to access The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which gives shareholder documents via e-communications, rather than receiving shareholders the opportunity to use their dividend to purchase further hard copy documents in the post.
This includes the Annual Report Man Group shares.
Shareholders receive as many whole shares as and Notice of AGM.
To sign up for e-communications, please register can be bought with their dividend, taking into account any costs of the on Equinitis website www.
Any residual monies left, after purchasing the shares out of your do this, you will need your shareholder reference number which can dividend payment, will be added to your next dividend payment.
In be found on your share certificate or on your dividend tax voucher.
relation to the 2010 final dividend, the latest date for joining or leaving Once registered, you will need to change your mailing preference to the DRIP scheme is 2 July 2010.
Instructions received after this date e-communications and provide your email address.
We will then be will be applied to the next dividend.
Copies of the DRIP terms and able to notify you by email as soon as shareholder documents are conditions and the DRIP mandate form can be downloaded from available on the Groups website www.
the Investor Relations pages of the Man Group website under the Dividends section of Shareholder Information.
Should you have any 1 Interim Report questions on the Plan, please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2268.
As part of our e-communications programme, we no longer produce a printed copy of our Interim Report.
Instead, the Interim Report will be Multiple accounts on the share register published on our website and will be available from early November If you have received multiple copies of shareholder documents, this each year.
If at that time you would like us to send you a hard copy means that there is more than one account in your name on the of our Interim Report, please email shareholder@mangroupplc.
If you have acquired shares in Man Group on more telephone 020 7144 1000 or write to the Company Secretary at than one occasion, but the name and address you supplied to the the registered office address, as shown on page 105, ensuring you Registrar differed, even slightly, from the existing details held, another provide your full name and address.
account may have been created.
As our Registrars are not allowed to amalgamate the accounts without your written consent, please write to Equiniti at the address above, quoting full details of the accounts you wish to consolidate.
105 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Share dealing service Unsolicited mail You can buy shares using any authorised stockbroker or bank that You may also receive unsolicited mail from a variety of commercial offers a share dealing service in the UK, or in your country of residence organisations who have obtained your address from our publicly if outside the UK.
If this is the case, please contact: Equiniti provides a share dealing service which is available to purchase The Mailing Preference Service MPS or sell Man Group shares, in the UK.
The service is provided by Equiniti FREEPOST 29 LON20771 Financial Services Limited and can be accessed via the Shareview London website www.
For telephone dealing please W1E 0ZT call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and 4.30pm Monday to Friday.
Tel: 0845 703 4599 Corporate ISA Email: mps@dma.
uk Equiniti offer a stocks and shares ISA for holding Man Group and or Register online at http: www.
other shares in a tax efficient manner.
For further information please contact Equiniti ISA helpline on 0845 300 0430.
Registering with the MPS will stop most unsolicited consumer advertising material.
Shareholder alerts Unsolicited investment advice Registered office Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have Man Group plc received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning Sugar Quay investment matters.
These are typically from overseas brokers who Lower Thames Street target shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be London worthless or high risk shares, generally in US or UK investments.
EC3R 6DU These callers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and their activities have resulted in considerable losses for some investors.
Tel: 020 7144 1000 It is not just the novice investor that has been deceived in this way: Fax: 020 7144 1923 many of the victims have been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, Registered number: 2921462 offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
Company Advisers If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Auditors:  LLP Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
Brokers Check that they are properly authorised for example, in the UK Bank of America Merrill Lynch by the FSA before getting involved.
You can check by visiting Credit Suisse www.
Public relations The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised The Maitland Consultancy Limited overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors.
Any approach from such organisations should be reported to 1 Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, each business day.
Calls to this number the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any other are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony provider costs appropriate action can be considered.
The FSA can be contacted may vary.
by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
2 Please note that a payment charge would be deducted from each individual payment before conversion into your local currency.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found www.
