The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 51 Notice of Meeting such offers or agreements as if the authority Notice is hereby given that the one conferred hereby had not expired.
hundred and twenty fourth Annual General Meeting of The Mercantile Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of relevant securities Special Resolution Investment Trust plc will be held at 9.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 8 set Trinity House, Tower Hill, London out above, the Directors of the Company be EC3N 4DH on 19th May 2010 at and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the Act to allot equity 12 noon for the following purposes: securities within the meaning of Section 560 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority Accounts and the Auditors Report for the year conferred by Resolution 8 as if Section 561 1 ended 31st January 2010. of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report allotment of equity securities for cash up to an for the year ended 31st January 2010. aggregate nominal amount of 2,498,217.75 3.
To re-elect Hamish Leslie Melville as a Director of representing approximately 10% of the issued the Company.
Ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution at a price of not less 4.
To re-elect Sandy Nairn as a Director of the than the net asset value per share and shall Company.
expire upon the expiry of the general authority 5.
To re-elect Ian Russell as a Director of the conferred by Resolution 8 above, save that the Company.
Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity 6.
To elect Sir Richard Beckett as a Director of the securities to be allotted after such expiry and so Company.
that the Directors of the Company may allot 7.
To re-appoint  LLP as equity securities in pursuant of such offers or auditors to the Company and to authorise the agreements as if the power conferred hereby had Directors to determine their remuneration.
Special Business: Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special To consider the following resolution: Resolution 10.
THAT the Company be generally and subject as Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in 8.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they accordance with Section 701 of the Act to make are hereby generally and unconditionally market purchases within the meaning of authorised, in substitution of any authorities Section 693 of the Act of its issued ordinary previously granted to the Directors, pursuant to shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company.
and in accordance with Section 551 of the PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the i the maximum number of ordinary shares powers of the Company to allot shares in the hereby authorised to be purchased shall be Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 14,979,314 or if less, that number of ordinary 2,498,217.75, representing approximately 10% of shares which is equal to 14.99% of the the Companys issued Ordinary share capital as at Companys issued share capital as at the date the date of the passing of this resolution, of the passing of this Resolution: provided that this authority shall expire on 18th May 2015 unless renewed at a general meeting ii the minimum price which may be paid for an prior to such time, save that the Company may ordinary share shall be 25p: before such expiry make offers or agreements iii the maximum price which may be paid for an which would or might require shares to be ordinary share or unit shall be an amount allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry equal to the highest of a 105% of the and so that the Directors of the Company may average of the middle market quotations for allot shares and grant Rights in pursuance of an ordinary share taken from and calculated 52 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notice of Meeting continued by reference to the London Stock Exchange Authority to increase the maximum aggregate Directors Daily Official List for the five business days fees Ordinary Resolution immediately preceding the day on which the 12.
THAT in accordance with Article 81 1 of the ordinary share is purchased, or b the price Companys new Articles of Association, the of the last independent trade: or c the maximum aggregate Directors fees payable be highest current independent bid: increased from 200,000 to 300,000 per annum with immediate effect.
iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the By order of the Board prevailing net asset value per ordinary share JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, as determined by the Directors : Secretary v the authority hereby conferred shall expire 31st March 2010 on 18th November 2011 unless the authority is renewed at the Companys Annual General Notes These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the Meeting in 2011 or at any other general reverse of the proxy form.
meeting prior to such time: and 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may vi the Company may make a contract to appoint another person s who need not be a member of the Company to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak purchase ordinary shares under the authority and vote at the Meeting.
A member can appoint more than hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such one proxy in relation to the Meeting, provided that each proxy authority which contract will or may be is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different shares executed wholly or partly after the expiry of held by him.
such authority and may make a purchase of 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but ordinary shares pursuant to any such must attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the Chairman, another director of the Company or another contract.
person who has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another person s as your Amendments to the Articles of Association Special proxy or proxies using the proxy form are set out in the notes Resolution to the proxy form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is left 11.
THAT: blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and whether he they abstain s from i the articles of association of the Company be voting.
Your proxy must attend the Meeting for your vote to amended by deleting all of the provisions of count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does not preclude you the Companys Memorandum of Association from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
If you attend the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will which, by virtue of section 28 of the automatically be terminated.
Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as part 3.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be of the Companys articles of association: lodged in accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
ii the articles of association of the Company be amended by deleting all the provisions 4.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy referred to in paragraph 42 of schedule 2 of appointments also applies in relation to amended instructions.
the Companies Act 2006 Commencement Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment No.
8, Transitional Provisions and Savings received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where Order 2008 Statutory Instrument 2008 two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are No.
2860 : and received in respect of the same share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last received regardless of its date iii the draft regulations produced to the meeting or the date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and and, for the purposes of identification, revoking the other or others as regards that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was last received, none initialled by the Chairman of the meeting be of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
adopted as the articles of association of the 5.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the Company in substitution for, and to, the entire purpose of the determination by the Company of the number exclusion of the existing articles of association of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the of the Company.
Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 53 also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right members to attend and vote and for the purpose of may be in hard copy or electronic form, must identify the determining the number of votes they may cast at the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a included in the business, must be accompanied by a statement longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be setting out the grounds for the request, must be authenticated entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. by the person s making it and must be received by the two days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company Company not later than the date that is six clear weeks before gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the that notice.
Changes to entries on the register after this time business only must be accompanied by a statement setting shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to out the grounds for the request.
attend or vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to 6.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy their proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act arrangement.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated Person: they can only be 7.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated Person may individual s to act as its representative s and to vote in have a right under an agreement between him and the person at the Meeting see instructions given on the proxy member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a form.
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
2006, each such representative s may exercise on behalf of If a Nominated Person does not have such a right or does not the corporation the same powers as the corporation could wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, agreement to give instructions to the member as to the provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate representative.
Representatives should bring to the 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, meeting evidence of their appointment, including any authority the contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total under which it is signed.
number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the AGM, the total voting rights 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the members are entitled to exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a any members statements, members resolutions or members statement on its website setting out any matter relating to matters of business received by the Company after the date of a the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors this notice will be available on the Companys website report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before www.
the AGM: or b any circumstances connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous AGM: 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected which the members propose to raise at the meeting.
The persons in the share capital of the Company and the Directors Company cannot require the members requesting the letters of appointment are available for inspection at the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the Companys registered office during usual business hours on website must also be sent to the Companys Auditors no later any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any General Meeting.
No Director has any contract of service with statement that the Company has been required to publish on the Company.
its website pursuant to this right.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice 9.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the of meeting to communicate with the Company for any Company must cause to be answered at the AGM any question purposes other than those expressly stated.
relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM which is 15.
As at 31st March 2010 being the latest business day prior to put by a member attending the meeting except in certain the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share circumstances, including if it is undesirable in the interests of capital consists of 99,928,719 Ordinary shares, carrying one the Company or the good order of the meeting or if it would vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company involve the disclosure of confidential information.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members Electronic appointment CREST members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by right to require the Company i to give, to members of the utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do Company entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a so for the Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the resolution which those members intend to move and which procedures described in the CREST Manual.
See further may properly be moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include instructions on the proxy form.
in the business to be dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be included in the business at the Meeting.
A resolution may properly be moved, or a matter properly included in the business unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is
