54 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Appendix The principal changes which would arise from the ineffective from 1 October 2007, but companies with adoption of the New Articles are set out below.
a casting vote provision in their articles on that date were, broadly, allowed to keep it.
However the EU The Companys memorandum of association Shareholders Rights Directive requires that all The provisions regulating the operations of the shareholders be treated equally and therefore The Company are currently set out in the Companys Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 memorandum and articles of association.
The the Regulations remove this saving provisions for Memorandum contains, among other things, the UK traded companies such that the casting vote objects clause which sets out the scope of the provision in the Companys Articles became activities the Company is authorised to undertake.
The 2006 Act significantly reduces the constitutional Directors fees significance of a companys memorandum.
The 2006 It is proposed to increase the aggregate amount per Act provides that a memorandum will record only annum that the directors may be paid, out of the the names of subscribers and the number of shares funds of the Company, by way of fees for their each subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
services as directors from 200,000 to 300,000.
Under the 2006 Act, the objects clause and all other provisions which were contained in a companys Adjournments for lack of quorum memorandum, for existing companies at 1st October Under the 2006 Act as amended by the Regulations, 2009, are now deemed to be contained in a general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must companys articles but the company can remove be held at least 10 clear days after the original these provisions by special resolution.
The New Articles reflect this requirement.
In addition, the 2006 Act states that unless a Voting Rights companys articles provide otherwise, a companys The Shareholders Rights Regulations clarify the objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for various powers of proxies and representatives of companies to have objects clauses.
The Company is corporate members in respect of resolutions taken therefore, proposing to remove its objects clause on a show of hands.
Where a proxy has been duly together with all other provisions of its appointed by one member, he has one vote on a memorandum which, by virtue of the 2006 Act, show of hands unless he has been appointed by would otherwise be treated as forming part of the more than one member in which case the proxy has Articles as of 1st October 2009. one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has Limited liability of shareholders been appointed by one or more member to vote for The liability of the Companys shareholders will the resolution and by one or more member to vote continue to be limited to the amount, if any, unpaid against the resolution.
Where a corporate member on the shares held by them.
appoints one or more representatives to attend meetings on its behalf, each representative duly Authorised share capital and unissued shares appointed by a corporate member has one vote on a The 2006 Act abolishes the requirement for a show of hands.
The New Articles reflect the revised company to have an authorised share capital.
The position under the 2006 Act.
Company is proposing changes to its Articles to reflect this.
The Directors will still be limited as to the Additional content requirements for notices of meetings number of shares they can at any time allot because The 2006 Act provides that certain additional allotment authority continues to be required under information must now be included in notices of the 2006 Act.
The New Articles contain a list of such information.
Chairmans casting vote Provisions in the current Articles giving the Chairman a casting vote at shareholders meetings became
