The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 55 Glossary of Terms Return on Net Assets Share Price Discount Premium to Net Asset Value Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on If the share price of an investment company is lower a bid value to bid value basis, assuming that all than the net asset value NAV per share, the shares dividends paid out by the Company were reinvested are said to be trading at a discount.
The discount is in the shares of the Company at the NAV per share shown as a percentage of the NAV.
The opposite of a at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
It is more common for an investment companys shares to trade at a discount In accordance with industry practice, dividends than at a premium.
payable which have been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet date are deducted from Performance Attribution the NAV when calculating the total return on net Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded assets.
performance relative to its benchmark.
Return to Shareholders Performance Attribution Definitions: Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to Allocation Effect mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends Measures the impact of allocating assets differently received were reinvested, without transaction costs, to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios in the shares of the Company at the time the shares weighting in different countries, sectors or asset were quoted ex-dividend.
Benchmark Return Selection Effect Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market Measures the effect of investing in securities to a value to mid-market value basis, assuming that all greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the dividends received were reinvested, without benchmark, or of investing in securities which are transaction costs, in the shares of the underlying not included in the benchmark.
companies at time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Gearing Cash Effect Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which cash balances on the Companys relative should not be taken as wholly representative of the performance.
The Companys investment strategy does not follow or track this Fees Expenses index and consequently, there may be some The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level divergence between the Companys performance and of total assets, and therefore has a negative effect on that of the benchmark.
Total Expense Ratio TER Share Buybacks Management fees and all other operating expenses Measures the effect on relative performance of excluding interest.
VAT recoverable on management decreasing the number of shares in issue.
fees and professional fees incurred in connection with those VAT recoveries, expressed as a percentage of the average of the opening and closing net assets.
Actual Gearing Factor Investments expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
This shows the effect of gearing on the net asset value if the market value of the portfolio were to increase by 100%.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 57 Information about the Company Financial Calendar Financial year end 31st January Final results announced April Half year end 31st July Half year results announced September Interim Management Statements announced May November Dividends on ordinary shares paid to shareholders 1st August, 1st November, 1st February, 1st May Interest on 4.25% perpetual debenture stock paid 1st June, 1st December Annual General Meeting April May or nearest following business day.
History Companys Registered Office The Mercantile Investment & General Trust Company Limited Finsbury Dials was formed in December 1884 with issued capital of 500,000.
20 Finsbury Street The Company merged with three other investment trusts in London EC2Y 9AQ 1960 under a scheme of arrangement and changed its name to Telephone number: 020 7742 6000 The Mercantile Investment Trust Limited.
In 1982 the Company Please contact Juliet Dearlove for company secretarial and became The Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc.
has been the Companys manager and secretary since its appointment in 1976.
In April 2008, the Company adopted its Registrars present name, The Mercantile Investment Trust plc.
Equiniti Reference 1101 Directors Aspect House Hamish Leslie Melville Chairman Spencer Way Sir Richard Beckett Lancing The Right Hon.
The Earl of Halifax West Sussex BN99 6DA Sandy Nairn Telephone number: 0871 384 2329 Charles Peel Notifications of changes of address and enquiries regarding Ian Russell share certificates or dividend cheques should be made in writing to the Registrar quoting reference 1101.
Registered Company Numbers shareholders can obtain further details on their holdings on the Company Registration number: 20537 internet by visiting www.
London Stock Exchange number: 0579403 ISIN: GB0005794036 Auditors Bloomberg ticker: MRC LN  LLP Hays Galleria Market Information 1 Hays Lane The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
London SE1 2RD The market price is shown daily in the Financial Times, The Guardian, The Times, The Daily Telegraph, The Independent, Brokers The Scotsman, and on the internet site at JPMorgan Cazenove www.
co. uk, where the share price is updated every 20 Moorgate fifteen minutes during trading hours.
London EC2R 6DA Cenkos Website 6, 7, 8 Tokenhouse Yard www.
co. uk London EC2R 7AS Share Transactions Savings Product Administrators The Companys shares may be dealt in directly through a For queries on the J. P. Morgan Investment Account, J. P. Morgan stockbroker or professional adviser acting on an investors ISA and J. P. Morgan SIPP, see contact details on the back cover behalf.
They may also be purchased and held through the of this report.
J. P. Morgan Investment Account, J. P. Morgan ISA and J. P. Morgan SIPP.
These products are all available on the online wealth manager service, J. P. Morgan WealthManager available at www.
Manager and Secretary JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited A member of the AIC
