The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the The accounts are published on the Companys annual report and the accounts in accordance with website at www.
co. uk, which is applicable law and regulations.
maintained by the Companys Manager, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The Company law requires the Directors to prepare maintenance and integrity of the website maintained accounts for each financial year.
Under that law, the by JPMAM is, so far as it relates to the Company, the Directors have elected to prepare the accounts in responsibility of JPMAM.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Statement under the Disclosure & Transparency Standards and applicable law.
12 required by law to give a true and fair view of the The Directors each confirm to the best of their state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the knowledge that: year and of the total return for the year.
In preparing a the accounts, prepared in accordance with those accounts, the Directors are required to: applicable accounting standards, give a true and select suitable accounting policies and then apply fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial them consistently: position and return or loss of the Company: and make judgements and estimates that are b this Annual Report includes a fair review of the reasonable and prudent: development and performance of the business state whether applicable accounting standards and the position of the Company, together with a have been followed, subject to any material description of the principal risks and uncertainties departures disclosed and explained in the that it faces.
accounts: and prepare the accounts on a going concern basis For and on behalf of the Board unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Hamish Leslie Melville Company will continue in business.
Chairman The Directors confirm that they comply with these 31st March 2010 requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
