The Merchants Trust PLC Statement of Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 January 2010 1 The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost basis, except for the measurement at fair value of investments, and in accordance with the United Kingdom Law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Acounting Practice UK GAAP and the Statement of Recommended Practice - Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP issued in January 2009 by the Association of Investment Companies.
In order to better reflect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Income Statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Income Statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment trust company under sections 833 and 834 of the Companies Act 2006, net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend.
The accounting policies adopted in preparing the current years financial statements are consistent with those of previous years.
The Directors believe it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements as the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities which are readily realisable and significantly exceed liabilities.
Accordingly, the Directors believe that the Company has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Companys business, the principal risks and uncertainties it faces, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Directors Report, Business Review section on pages 17 to 19.
FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures introduces additional disclosures relating to financial instruments.
This standard does not have any impact on the classification and or valuation of the Companys financial instruments.
The additional disclosures provided in accordance with the requirements of the standard are set out in Note 18 to the financial statements.
2 Revenue Dividends on equity shares are accounted for on an ex-dividend basis.
UK dividends are shown net of tax credits.
Special dividends are recognised on an ex-dividend basis and treated as a capital or revenue item depending on the facts and circumstances of each dividend.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the equivalent of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in capital reserves.
Deposit interest receivable and stocklending fees are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Commissions in respect of underwriting are recognised when the underwritten issue closes and are generally recognised within the Income Statement as revenue.
Where, however, the Company is required to take up a proportion of the shares underwritten, the same proportion of the commission received is recognised as capital, with the balance recognised as revenue.
3 Investment management fees and administrative expenses The investment management fee is calculated on the basis set out in Note 2 to the financial statements and is charged to capital and revenue in the ratio 65:35 to reflect the Boards investment policy and prospective split of capital and revenue returns.
Other administrative expenses are charged in full to revenue, except custodian handling charges on investment transactions which are charged to capital.
All expenses are recognised on an accruals basis.
4 Valuation As the Companys business is investing in financial assets with a view to profiting from their total return in the form of increases in fair value, financial assets are designated as held at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The Company manages and evaluates the performance of these investments on a fair value basis in accordance with its investment strategy, and information about the investments is provided on this basis to the Board of Directors.
Investments held at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value.
After initial recognition, these continue to be measured at fair value, which for quoted investments is either the bid price or the last traded price depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is listed.
Investment holding gains losses reflect differences between fair value and book cost.
Net gains or losses arising on sale of investment are recognised in the capital column of the income statement and taken to the Capital Reserve.
36 The Merchants Trust PLC Statement of Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 January 2010 5 Derivatives Options are purchased or written over securities held in the portfolio for either generating or protecting capital returns, or for generating or maintaining revenue returns.
Premium received on written options held to generate or maintain revenue returns, are amortised to revenue over the period to expiry.
Where the purpose of the option is the maintenance of capital the premium is treated as a capital item.
The value of the option is subsequently marked to market to reflect the fair value of the option based on traded prices.
When an option is closed out the gain or loss is accounted for as capital.
Unamortised premiums form part of the gain or loss.
Gains or losses on exercised options are accounted for as capital.
6 Finance costs In accordance with the FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, long term borrowings are stated at the amortised cost being the amount of net proceeds on issue plus accrued finance costs to date.
Finance costs are calculated over the term of the debt on the effective interest rate basis.
Where debt is issued at a premium, the premium is amortised over the term of the debt on the effective interest rate basis.
Finance costs net of amortised premiums are charged to capital and revenue in the ratio 65:35 to reflect the Boards investment policy and prospective split of capital and revenue returns.
Dividends payable on the 3.65% Cumulative Preference Stock are classified as an interest expense and are charged in full to revenue.
7 Taxation Where expenses are allocated between capital and revenue, any tax relief obtained in respect of those expenses is allocated between capital and revenue on the marginal basis using the Companys effective rate of corporation tax for the accounting period.
Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements.
A deferred tax asset is recognised when it is more likely than not that the asset will be recoverable.
Deferred tax is measured on a nondiscounted basis at the rate of corporation tax that is expected to apply when the timing differences are expected to reverse.
8 Foreign currency In accordance with FRS 23 The Effect of changes in Foreign Currency Exchanges Rates, the Company is required to nominate a functional currency, being the currency in which the Company predominately operates.
The functional and reporting currency is sterling, reflecting the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Profits and losses thereon are recognised in the capital column of the income statement and taken to the Capital Reserve.
9 Dividends In accordance with FRS 21 Events After the Balance Sheet Date, the final dividend proposed on Ordinary Shares is recognised as a liability when approved by shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised only when paid.
10 Shares repurchased and subsequently cancelled - Share Capital is reduced by the nominal value of the shares repurchased, and the Capital Redemption Reserve is correspondingly increased in accordance with Section 733 Companies Act 2006.
The full cost of the repurchase is charged to the Capital Reserve.
11 Shares issued Share Capital is increased by the nominal value of shares issued.
The proceeds net of expenses are allocated to the Share Premium Account.
