126 Notes to the financial statements for the period 19 January 2010 to 31 March 2010 1 Statement of accounting policies Cable & Wireless Communications Plc the Company formerly Cable & Wireless Communications Limited was incorporated on 19 January 2010.
These accounts represent the period from the date of incorporation to 31 March 2010 and as such no comparatives have been presented.
1.1 Basis of preparation The Companys financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards applicable under generally accepted accounting principles in the United Kingdom and the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
They have been prepared on the historical cost basis where appropriate.
These financial statements set out the position of the Company and not the Cable & Wireless Communications Group the Group which it heads.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
The Company is exempt under FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures from the requirement to provide its own financial instruments disclosures on the grounds that they are included in publicly available consolidated financial statements which include disclosures that comply with the IFRS equivalent standard.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars US$, as this is the functional currency of the Company at 31 March 2010, and rounded to the nearest million.
Until 26 March 2010, the functional currency of the Company was Sterling.
The functional currency was changed after the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business as the Directors consider the US dollar to most faithfully represent the underlying transactions, events and conditions for the Company.
1.2 Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
FRS 18 Accounting Policies requires that a description of the impact of any change in estimation techniques should be provided where the change has a material impact on the reported results for the period.
1.3 Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are included in the balance sheet at historical cost less any impairments recognised.
Impairment reviews are carried out whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the subsidiary may not be fully recoverable.
Impairments are determined by comparing the carrying value of the subsidiary to its recoverable amount, being the higher of the subsidiarys fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Fair value represents market value in an active market.
Value in use is determined by discounting future cash flows arising from the subsidiary with reference to the Groups own projections using pre-tax discount rates which represent the estimated weighted average cost of capital for the Company.
Impairments are recognised in profit and loss.
1.4 Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities The Company classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets are held.
The Company currently does not classify any financial assets as fair value through profit and loss, held-to-maturity investments or available-for-sale assets.
The basis of determining fair values is set out in note 1.5.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition in accordance with FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair value through the profit and loss.
Debtors Debtors are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable receipts that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Company provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the debtor.
They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than one year after the balance sheet date these are classified as non-current assets.
Debtors are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is determined using the effective interest method less allowance for impairment.
An allowance for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the allowance is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The amount of the allowance is recognised in the profit and loss.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 127 Financial statements Recognition and measurement Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Company has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
The Company assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
Loans Loans are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in profit and loss over the period of the loans using the effective interest method.
Loans are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting date.
Convertible bonds issued by the Company were initially recognised at fair value.
The bond was separated into a liability and equity component.
The liability component was recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The equity component represented the residual of the fair value of the bond less the liability component.
The liability component was subsequently measured on an amortised cost basis.
1.5 Fair value estimation The nominal value less estimated impairments of receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Company for similar financial instruments.
Discounted cash flows are used to determine the fair value for the majority of remaining financial instruments.
1.6 Tax The charge for tax is based on the result for the period and takes into account tax deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
Deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable to the extent that on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Except where otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision without discounting is made for all timing differences that have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
1.7 Dividends Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier of their approval by the Companys shareholders or their payment.
1.8 Pensions Costs in respect of the Companys contributions to the Group defined contribution pension scheme are charged to the profit and loss on an accruals basis as contributions become payable.
2 Companys profit and loss account The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and has not presented its own profit and loss account.
The profit for the period of the Company from incorporation to 31 March 2010 amounted to US$0.2 million.
3 Remuneration of Directors Information covering Directors remuneration, interests in shares, share options and pension benefits is set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 46 to 58 of the Directors remuneration report.
128 Notes to the financial statements for the period 19 January 2010 to 31 March 2010 4 Scheme of arrangement and demerger At a General Meeting on 25 February 2010, the shareholders of Cable and Wireless plc approved the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business.
On 19 March 2010, Cable & Wireless Communications Plc was interposed as the new parent entity of the Cable & Wireless Group now Cable & Wireless Communications Group and on 22 March 2010 shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc were listed on the London Stock Exchange.
On 26 March 2010 the demerger date, the Cable & Wireless Worldwide businesses was transferred to an unrelated company, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, in exchange for the entire share capital of that company.
Refer to note 15 of the consolidated financial statements for further information.
5 Staff numbers and costs The average monthly number of persons employed by the Company including Directors during the period since incorporation was five.
Their costs for the period since incorporation were US$nil million.
6 Fixed asset investments Subsidiary undertakings US$m Cost At 19 January 2010 Additions 6,086 At 31 March 2010 6,086 Net book value At 31 March 2010 6,086 7 Creditors 31 March 2010 US$m Amounts falling due within one year Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 3,845 Other creditors 117 Total creditors 3,962 There is no material difference between the carrying amount and fair value of creditors at 31 March 2010.
8 Called-up share capital The Company was incorporated on 19 January 2010.
On incorporation, the Companys authorised share capital was US$2 consisting of two ordinary shares of US$1.
On 25 January 2010, the Company issued two redeemable preference shares of 25,000 each.
The preference shares were allotted for cash and remained unpaid by virtue of the holder giving an undertaking to pay up each share to such amount pursuant to section 583 2 and 583 3 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
On the same date, the existing ordinary shares of US$2 were subdivided into 40 ordinary shares of 5 cents each.
On 19 March 2010, the authorised share capital of the Company was increased to US$131 million by the creation of 2,624,571,984 ordinary shares of 5 cents each.
In addition, 2,624,571,984 B shares were created of 6.15 pence each with a total nominal value of 161 million US$247 million.
On 19 March 2010, the Company issued 2,624,571,984 of ordinary shares of 5 cents US$131 million and the same number of B shares of 5 pence each with a combined market value of 239 cents to the public shareholders of Cable and Wireless plc in exchange for the entire share capital of Cable and Wireless plc as part of the Scheme of Arrangement.
The ordinary shares and B shares were stapled to each other until demerger.
On 26 March 2010, the Company demerged the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business.
This involved a court approved capital reduction by cancelling the B shares in their entirety and the proportion of the share premium account attributable to the B shares.
In consideration, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc issued ordinary shares of 5 pence each to the shareholders of the Company on the basis of one new Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc share for every Cable & Wireless Communications Plc B share held.
The total market value of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares issued was US$3,979 million, being the market value of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business at this date.
