Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 59 Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the Financial statements Transparency Rules Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed Group and Company in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
on pages 36 to 37, confirms that, to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: English company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: European Union EU and applicable law.
Further, they have elected The financial statements, prepared in accordance with UK GAAP to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with UK give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position accounting standards and applicable law UK GAAP.
The financial and profit of the Company: and statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the The Annual Report includes a fair review of the development assets, liabilities and financial position of the Group and the and performance of the business and the position of the Company Company and of the Groups income statement for that period.
and Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to: Disclosure of information to auditors Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: information as defined in Section 418 3 of the Companies Act For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been 2006 of which the auditors are unaware and the Directors have prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant audit For the Company financial statements, state whether applicable information and ensure the auditors are aware of such information.
UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial By order of the Board statements.
Clare Underwood The Directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency Company Secretary Rules to include a management report containing a fair review of the 26 May 2010 business and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and Company.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, with regard to the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
A copy of the financial statements of the Company is posted on the Cable & Wireless Communications Plc website www.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the website.
Information published on the Companys website is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
