The Merchants Trust PLC Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Financial Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under that law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements respectively: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The financial statements are published on www.
co. uk, which is a website maintained by the Companys investment manager, RCM UK Limited.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
The work undertaken by the Auditor does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of the website and, accordingly, the Auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
12 The Directors at the date of approval of this Report, each confirm to the best of their knowledge that: the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company: and the Annual Financial Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the Company and the position of the company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
For and on behalf of the Board Hugh Stevenson Chairman 7 April 2010 28
