The Merchants Trust PLC Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of The Merchants Trust PLC will be held at 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA, on Tuesday 11 May 2010 at 12.00 noon to transact the following business.
Routine Business 1 To receive and adopt the Report of the Directors and the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 January 2010 together with the Auditors Report thereon.
2 To declare a final dividend of 5.7p per Ordinary Share.
3 To re-elect Mr R. A. Barfield as a Director.
4 To re-elect Sir James Sassoon as a Director.
5 To elect Mr S. J. Fraser as a Director.
6 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
7 To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which financial statements are laid before the Company.
8 To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors.
Special Business To consider and if thought fit to pass the following resolutions.
Resolution 10 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution and Resolutions 9, 11, 12 and 13 as Special Resolutions: 9 To adopt new Articles of Association.
10 That for the purposes of Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of the said Section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 8,567,788 provided that: i the authority granted shall expire five years from the date upon which this Resolution is passed but may be revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting and may be renewed by the Company in general meeting for a further period not exceeding five years: and ii the authority shall allow and enable the Directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of that authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if that authority had not expired.
11 That the Directors be empowered in accordance with Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 10 as if sub-section 1 of Section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that: i the power granted shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities wholly for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,570,336: ii the power granted shall unless previously revoked or renewed expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution: and iii the said power shall allow and enable the Directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of that power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if that power had not expired.
12 That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares, provided that: 54 The Merchants Trust PLC Notice of Meeting i the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 5,411,738: ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 25p: iii the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle-market quotations for an Ordinary Share taken from the London Stock Exchange Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary Share is purchased or such other amount as may be specified by the London Stock Exchange from time to time: iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2011 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 18 months from the passing of this resolution, unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and v the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract.
13 That a general meeting, other than an annual general meeting, may be called on less than 14 days clear notice.
155 Bishopsgate By Order of the Board London EC2M 3AD K. J.
Salt 7 April 2010 Secretary Annual General Meeting Venue 55 The Merchants Trust PLC Notice of Meeting Notes: 1.
Members entitled to attend and vote at this Meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote in their stead by completion of a personalised form of proxy.
Full details on how to complete the form of proxy are set out on the form of proxy.
The proxy need not be a Member of the Company.
A proxy must vote in accordance with any instructions given by the member by whom the proxy is appointed.
A proxy has one vote on a show of hands in all cases including where one member has appointed multiple proxies, except where he is appointed by multiple members who instruct him to vote in different ways, in which case he only has one vote for and one vote against the resolution.
A personalised form of proxy is provided with the Annual Financial Report.
Any replacement forms must be requested direct from the Registrar.
Completion of the form of proxy does not exclude a Member from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
Duly completed forms of proxy must reach the office of the Registrars at least 48 excluding non-business days hours before the Meeting.
Shares held in uncertificated form i. e. in CREST may be voted through the CREST Proxy Voting Service in accordance with the procedures set out in the CREST manual on the Euroclear website www.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, Members must be entered on the Companys Register of Members by close of business on Friday 7 May 2010 the record date.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the record date applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of Members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If, however, the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, Members must be entered on the Companys Register of Members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives new notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the record date specified in that notice.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered shareholder who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated persons should contact the registered member by whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
Corporate representatives are entitled to attend and vote on behalf of the corporate member in accordance with Section 323 of the Companies Act 2006.
Pursuant to the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 SI 2009 1632, multiple corporate representatives appointed by the same corporate member can vote in different ways provided they are voting in respect of different shares.
Members have a right under Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006 to require the Company to answer any question raised by a member at the AGM, which relates to the business being dealt with at the meeting, although no answer need be given a if to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation of the meeting or involve disclosure of confidential information: b if the answer has already been given on the Companys website: or c it is undesirable in the best interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting.
Members satisfying the thresholds in Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company, at its expense, to publish a statement on the Company website setting out any matter which relates to the audit of the Companys accounts that are to be laid before the meeting.
Any such statement must also be sent to the Companys auditors no later than the time it is made available on the website and must be included in the business of the meeting.
As at 6 April 2010, the latest practicable date before this Notice is given, the total number of shares in the Company in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights was 103,213,464 Ordinary Shares of 25p each and 1,178,000 3.65% Cumulative Preference Shares.
Each Ordinary Share and each Preference Share carry the right to one vote and therefore the total number of voting rights in the Company on 7 April 2010 is 104,391,464.
Further information regarding the meeting which the Company is required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website in advance of the meeting including this Notice, can be accessed at www.
Contracts of service are not entered into with the Directors, who hold office in accordance with the Articles of Association.
A copy of the New Articles is available for inspection at the registered office of the Company, 155 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 3AD.
56 sterling 128644 128644 Merchants Report Cover 7 4 10 5:17 pm Page IFC1 Printed on FSC-certified paper from well-managed forests and recycled wood or fibre, using vegetable based inks.
128644 Merchants Report Cover 7 4 10 5:17 pm Page BC1 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2010 RCM UK Limited, 155 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AD www.
com RCM UK Limited is a company of Allianz Global Investors
