Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 67 Financial statements N otes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 1 General information Cable & Wireless Communications Plc the Company and its subsidiaries together Cable & Wireless Communications Group or the Group is an international telecommunications company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
It operates through four regional units being the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union EU as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2010.
Group reorganisation and demerger On 19 March 2010, the Cable & Wireless Group effected a group reorganisation whereby Cable & Wireless Communications Plc was inserted as a new holding company for the Cable & Wireless Group via a Scheme of Arrangement.
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc therefore replaced Cable and Wireless plc now Cable & Wireless Limited as the parent company of the Cable & Wireless Group as at this date.
On the same date shareholders were given one ordinary share and one B share of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc for every share of Cable and Wireless plc held on that date.
At this time, the Cable & Wireless Group was renamed the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
Shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc were admitted to the Official List of the Financial Services Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities on 22 March 2010.
The Scheme of Arrangement was accounted for using the principles of reverse acquisition accounting contained within IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
In these consolidated financial statements, the transaction to interpose the new holding company, Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, has been presented as though the Cable & Wireless Group acquired Cable & Wireless Communications Plc.
This resulted in the legal acquiror, Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, being treated for accounting purposes as having been acquired by its legal subsidiary, Cable and Wireless plc now Cable & Wireless Limited.
In these financial statements, this results in a continuation of the consolidated financial statements of the Cable & Wireless Group renamed the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
On 26 March 2010, the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business was demerged from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
The demerger was effected by a three part transaction which involved the following: The B shares and associated share premium in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc were cancelled to enable the Company to repay capital to shareholders.
The entire share capital of Cable & Wireless UK Holdings Limited, the parent entity of the Worldwide group of companies and the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Brand, were transferred to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, an unrelated company.
In return for the share capital of Cable & Wireless UK Holdings Limited and the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Brand, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc issued one ordinary share in itself to the holder of each Cable & Wireless Communications Plc B share prior to their cancellation as part of this transaction.
These transactions resulted in the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group and the holders of shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc at 26 March 2010 receiving one share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and one share in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc for every share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc held at that date.
The results of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business are shown as discontinued operations in these financial statements.
See note 15 for further information on other significant aspects and transactions of the demerger.
Change of functional and presentation currency Following the demerger of the Worldwide business, the Group has changed its presentation currency from Sterling to US dollars, as this is the most representative currency of the remaining Groups operations.
At the same time, the functional currency of the parent company and of the majority of holding and financing companies of the Group that previously had a Sterling functional currency was changed to US dollars.
The Directors consider the US dollar to most faithfully represent the economic effects of the underlying transactions, events and conditions for these companies within the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2009 have been represented in US dollars.
The principal exchange rates used in preparing the Group financial statements are set out in note 4.
68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 2.1 Basis of preparation continued These consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars US$ and rounded to the nearest million.
The comparative amounts for the income statement and statement of cash flows have been represented for the classification of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business results as discontinued.
In addition, comparative reserves and share capital have been presented in accordance with the principles of reverse acquisitions.
See note 34 for more information.
The consolidated accounts have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments held at fair value.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis see page 41 of the Directors report for further detail.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be reasonable under the circumstances.
They form the basis of judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a continuing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
Critical judgements and areas where the use of estimates is significant are discussed in note 3.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 69 Financial statements 2.2 Application of recently issued International Financial Reporting Standards The Group considered the implications, if any, of the following amendments to IFRS during the year ended 31 March 2010.
New and amended Standards and Interpretations endorsed by the European Union and effective for the Group at dates from 1 April 2009 adopted by the Group in 2009 10 Title EU effective date Description Impact on the Group Amendments to IAS 1 Annual periods The amendments affect the presentation of owner changes in equity These are presentation Presentation of Financial Statements: beginning and introduce the concept of comprehensive income.
They do not amendments only A Revised Presentation on or after change the recognition, measurement or disclosure of specific and did not have a 1 January 2009. transactions and events required by other standards.
material impact on the Group.
Amendments to IAS 32 Annual periods The amendments require some puttable financial instruments that These amendments did and IAS 1 beginning impose on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro not have an effect on Puttable Financial Instruments and on or after rata share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation to be the Group.
Obligations Arising on Liquidation 1 January 2009. classified as equity.
IFRS 8 Annual periods The IFRS requires disclosures in respect of the operating segments of This is a presentation Operating Segments beginning the Group.
This standard requires segmental disclosures presented standard only and did on or after on the basis upon which management views the Group.
not have a material 1 January 2009. impact on the Group.
Amendments to IFRS 1 Annual periods The amendment removes the concept of preand post-acquisition The amendments did and IAS 27 beginning reserves from IFRS.
not have a material Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, on or after impact on the Group.
Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate 1 January 2009.
Amendments to IFRS 7 Annual periods This amendment contains further disclosure requirements to This is a disclosure Improving Disclosures about beginning enhance the information available to investors about fair value standard only and did Financial Instruments on or after measurement and liquidity risk associated with an entitys financial not have a material 1 January 2009. instruments.
IFRIC 12 Annual periods The interpretation gives guidance on the accounting by operators for The Group does not Service Concession Arrangements beginning public-to-private service concession arrangements.
have any public-toon or after private service 29 March 2009. concession arrangements.
IFRIC 14 Annual periods IFRIC 14 clarifies three issues: This interpretation did IAS 19 The Limit on a beginning how entities should determine the limit placed by IAS 19 not have a material Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum on or after Employee Benefits on the amount of a surplus in a pension impact on the Group.
Funding Requirements and 1 January 2009. plan they can recognise as an asset: their Interaction how a minimum funding requirement affects that limit: and when a minimum funding requirement creates an onerous obligation that should be recognised as a liability in addition to that otherwise recognised under IAS 19.
IFRIC 16 Annual periods This Interpretation provides guidance on the nature of the hedged This amendment did not Hedges of a Net Investment beginning risk and the amount of the hedged item for which a hedging have a material impact in a Foreign Operation on or after relationship may be designated, where in the group a hedging on the Group.
1 October 2008. instrument can be held and which amounts should be reclassified from equity to the income statement as reclassification adjustments on disposal of the foreign operation.
Amendments to IFRIC 9 Annual periods These amendments allow the reassessment of embedded derivatives The amendments did and IAS 39 ending on reclassification of financial instruments out of the fair value not have a material Embedded Derivatives on or after through the income statement category.
Improvements to IFRS 2008 Various dates, The Improvements to IFRS contains miscellaneous necessary but These improvements earliest is annual non-urgent amendments to IFRS.
did not have a material periods beginning impact on the Group.
70 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 2.2 Application of recently issued International Financial Reporting Standards continued New and amended Standards and Interpretations endorsed by the European Union and not adopted by the Group Title EU effective date Description Expected adoption date and impact on the Group Revised IAS 27 Annual periods The revisions to IAS 27 specify that changes in a parents ownership The Group will adopt Consolidated and Separate beginning interest in a subsidiary that do not result in the loss of control must for 2010 11.
This Financial Statements on or after be accounted for as equity transactions.
amendment is consistent 1 July 2009. with current Group policy.
Amendments to IAS 32 Annual periods The amendment requires that rights, options or warrants to acquire The Group will adopt Classification of Rights Issues beginning a fixed number of the entitys own equity instruments for a fixed for 2010 11.
These on or after amount of any currency are equity instruments if the entity offers amendments are not 1 February 2010. the rights, options or warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners expected to have a of the same class of its own non-derivative equity instruments.
Amendments to IAS 39 Annual periods The amendment clarifies how existing hedge accounting principles The Group will adopt Financial Instruments: beginning should be applied to the designation of a one-sided risk in a hedged for 2010 11.
These Recognition and Measurement: on or after item and to inflation in a hedged item.
amendments are not Eligible Hedged Items 1 July 2009. expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Annual periods These amendments clarify the scope of IFRS 2 and its interaction The Group will adopt Group Cash-settled beginning with other standards.
They also address how an entity should for 2010 11.
The Share-based Payment on or after account for some share-based payments in its own financial amendments are not Transactions 1 January 2010. statements if its parent or another entity in the Group will pay expected to have a for goods or services that it has received.
Revised IFRS 3 Annual periods The main changes in the revised IFRS 3 include the separate These changes will Business Combinations beginning accounting for acquisition related costs, changes to business be effective for on or after combinations achieved in stages and changes to the accounting businesses purchased 1 July 2009. for business combinations where less than 100% of the equity by the Group after is acquired.
As such, no assessment can be determined of their 1 impact.
IFRIC 17 Annual periods This interpretation applies to non-cash dividends excluding those The Group will adopt Distribution of Non-cash Assets beginning controlled by the same party before and after the transaction.
This to Owners on or after clarifies the recognition and measurement of non-cash dividends interpretation is not 1 July 2009. payable.
expected to have a material impact on the Group.
IFRIC 18 Annual periods The IFRIC clarifies how existing IFRS are applied to agreements in The Group will adopt Transfers of Assets from beginning which an entity receives an asset from a customer which it then uses for 2010 11.
This Customers on or after to connect the customer to a network or provide ongoing access to interpretation is not 1 November 2009. goods or services.
Improvements to IFRS 2009 Various dates, The Improvements to IFRS contains miscellaneous necessary but The Group will adopt earliest is annual non-urgent amendments to IFRS.
These periods beginning improvements are not on or after 1 July expected to have a 2009. material impact on 1 the Group.
1 IFRS 3 Revised contains provisions relating to contingent consideration which would result in all of the changes in the fair value of the Groups put option being recorded through the income statement.
However, subsequent amendments contained in Improvements to IFRS 2009 have resulted in the requirements contained within the previous version of IFRS 3 being grandfathered.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 71 Financial statements New and amended Standards and Interpretations not yet adopted by the European Union and the Group Title IASB effective date Description Expected adoption date subject to European Union endorsement and impact on the Group IFRS 9 Annual periods This IFRS simplifies the classification, recognition and measurement The Group will adopt Financial Instruments beginning on requirements for financial assets, financial liabilities and some for 2013 14.
This IFRS or after contracts to buy or sell non-financial items.
replaces parts of IAS 39 1 January 2013. and is not expected to not have a material impact on the Group.
Revised IAS 24 Annual periods The revisions provide an exemption from disclosure requirements The Group will adopt for Related Party Disclosures beginning on for transactions between state-controlled entities and removes 2011 12.
These revisions or after some inconsistencies.
are not expected to have 1 January 2011. a material impact on the Group.
Amendments to IFRIC 14 Annual periods The amendments permit entities to treat an early payment of a The Group will adopt Prepayments of a Minimum Funding beginning on contribution to cover minimum funding requirements as an asset.
These Requirement or after amendments are 1 January 2011. consistent with current Group policy.
IFRIC 19 Annual periods This IFRIC provides guidance on accounting for debt to equity swaps The Group will adopt Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with beginning on where a debtor extinguishes the liability fully or partially by issuing for 2011 12.
This Equity Instruments or after equity instruments to the creditor.
interpretation is not 1 July 2010. expected to have material impact on the Group.
Improvements to IFRS 2010 Various dates, The Improvements to IFRS contains miscellaneous necessary but The Group will adopt earliest is annual non-urgent amendments to IFRS.
These periods beginning improvements are not on or after expected to have a 1 January 2011. material impact on the Group.
2.3 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and include the Groups share of the results and net assets of its joint ventures.
The accounts of the Groups main trading subsidiaries and joint ventures have been prepared to align with the Groups reporting date.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by and forming part of the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, the existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are considered.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively takes control until the date that control ceases.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned with the policies adopted by the Group to ensure consistency.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued at the date of exchange plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Joint ventures Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
Joint ventures are entities over which the Group exercises joint control.
The Groups investment in joint ventures includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
Accounting policies of joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The Groups share of its joint ventures post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement.
Its share of postacquisition movements in reserves is recognised in equity.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 2.3 Basis of consolidation continued When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture exceeds its investment including any other unsecured long-term receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups investment in the joint ventures.
2.4 Segmental reporting Cable & Wireless Communications Group is an international telecommunications service provider.
It operates integrated telecommunications companies in 38 countries offering mobile, broadband and domestic and international fixed line services to residential and business customers.
It has four principal operations being the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires disclosures in respect of the operating segments of the Group according to the management approach.
This approach reflects the type and extent of information presented to the chief operating decisionmaker of the Group the Cable & Wireless Communications Plc Board the Board.
The Group is organised into four principal operations being the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
The Board considers the performance of each of these operations in assessing the performance of the Group and making decisions about the allocation of resources.
Accordingly, these are the operating segments disclosed.
There are no other operating segments identified by the Board.
The operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Board.
The Groups results also contain the results of the former Headquarters of the Cable & Wireless International CWI business and the Cable and Wireless plc Central function.
These central functions primarily act as a portfolio manager and operational support provider.
This operational support includes risk management, best practice sharing, facilitating the development and enhancement of Customer Relationship Management strategies and billing systems, as well as provision of specialist procurement, networks, technology, legal, finance, tax, communications and human resources services.
These functions are not considered to be operating segments as they do not earn revenue from their activities.
Their results are reported separately from the results of operations.
2.5 Foreign currency translation a Functional currency Amounts included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
b Foreign currency translation Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
c Foreign operations The results and financial position of all the Cable & Wireless Communications Group entities that have a functional currency different from the Cable & Wireless Communications Groups presentation currency of US dollars are translated as follows: i assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date: ii income and expenses are translated at rates closely approximating the rate at the date of the transactions: and iii resulting exchange differences are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
On disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to shareholders equity.
Where investments are matched in whole or in part by foreign currency loans, the exchange differences arising on the retranslation of such loans are also recorded as movements in the Groups translation reserves and any excess taken to the income statement.
There are no Group entities operating in a hyperinflationary economy.
2.6 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes labour and overhead costs arising directly from the construction or acquisition of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated costs of dismantling and removing assets and restoring sites on which they are located are included in the cost of property, plant and equipment.
The corresponding obligation is recognised as a provision in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 73 Financial statements Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that the future economic benefits will flow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
All other subsequent costs primarily repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Interest costs relating to borrowings made to finance separately identifiable major capital projects those that take six months or more to complete are capitalised as part of the cost of assets when it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the entity and the costs can be measured reliably.
The interest costs included are only those that are incurred up to the time that those projects are ready for service.
Depreciation is not recognised on freehold land or assets under construction.
On other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is recognised on the difference between the cost of an item and its estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: Lives Cables up to 20 years Network equipment 3 to 25 years Ducting 40 years Freehold buildings 40 years Leasehold buildings up to 40 years or term of lease if less Asset residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date.
An assets carrying amount is written down to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount through sale or use.
Gains and losses on the sale of property, plant and equipment are determined by reference to the proceeds and net book values.
These gains and losses are recognised in the income statement.
Engineering spares held for use by the Group over a period exceeding one year are included in assets under construction.
They are stated at cost and include an appropriate allocation of labour and overheads.
The cost is determined on a weighted average basis.
Allowance is made for deterioration and obsolescence.
2.7 Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary or joint venture.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures is included in the carrying value of those investments.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
b Other intangible assets Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of identifiable and unique software products by the Group are recognised as intangible assets.
Expenditures that enhance and extend the benefits of computer software programs beyond their original specifications and lives are recognised as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software.
Expenditure is only capitalised if costs can be measured reliably, the product is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development and to use the asset.
Intangible assets relating to licences and customer contracts obtained as part of the Groups business combinations are recorded initially at their fair values.
Other intangible assets that do not have indefinite useful lives are amortised over their respective lives which are usually based on contractual terms including renewal periods if there is evidence to support renewal by the Group without significant cost.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation.
Other intangible assets, other than those with indefinite useful lives, are amortised on a straight-line basis over the following periods: Lives Software 3 to 5 years Licences 25 years or less if the licence term is shorter Customer contracts 4 to 15 years Other 3 to 5 years 74 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 2.8 Financial instruments Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement, receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets are held.
The Group currently does not currently classify any assets as held-to-maturity investments.
The basis of determining fair values is set out in note 2.9.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair value through the income statement.
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through the income statement at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the shortterm or if so designated by management.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading.
Assets classified as financial assets at fair value through the income statement are presented as current assets if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realised within one year of the reporting date.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category at inception or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the reporting date.
Purchases and sales of assets are recognised on the trade-date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Receivables Receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the receivable.
Receivables are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than one year after the reporting date where they are classified as non-current assets.
Receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the statement of financial position.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is determined using the effective interest method less valuation allowance if necessary.
A valuation allowance is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the allowance is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
The allowance is initially recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets recognition and measurement Financial assets at fair value through the income statement are recognised and subsequently carried at fair value.
Available-forsale financial assets are recognised and subsequently carried at fair value.
Receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Financial assets not revalued to fair value through the income statement are initially recognised at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Gains and losses both realised and unrealised arising from changes in the value of financial assets held at fair value through the income statement are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether it is impaired.
If any such evidence exists for availablefor-sale financial assets the cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
This loss is measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised on these instruments are not reversed through the income statement if the fair value of the security increases in a later period.
Derivative financial instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value at each reporting date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Gains and losses on derivative instruments that are not designated as hedge instruments are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 75 Financial statements The Group only hedges net investments in foreign operations.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of cash flows of hedged items.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges by recognising any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Financial liabilities Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Convertible bonds bonds that can be converted into share capital at the option of the holder issued by the Group are initially recognised at fair value.
The bonds are separated into liability and equity components.
The liability component is initially recognised at the fair value of a similar liability without an equity conversion option.
The equity component represents the fair value of the bond less the liability component.
Any directly attributable transaction costs are allocated to the liability and equity components in proportion to their initial carrying amounts.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the liability component of the bond is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The equity component is not remeasured subsequent to initial recognition.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting date where they are classified as non-current assets.
Puttable instruments Puttable instruments on non-controlling interests issued as part of a business combination are accounted for by the Group as a financial liability.
The liability is based on the present value of the redemption amount as if the puttable instrument had been exercised at the reporting date.
Movements in the value of the liability together with dividends paid to non-controlling interests are recognised as adjustments to goodwill with the unwind of the discount on the fair value calculation being recognised in the income statement.
2.9 Fair value estimation for financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as publicly traded derivatives or trading and available-forsale securities is based on quoted market prices at the reporting date.
The quoted market price used for traded financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
The appropriate quoted market price for traded financial liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the reporting date.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses a variety of methods which include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models which reflect the specific instrument.
The nominal value of receivables less estimated impairments and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities measured at amortised cost is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Discounted cash flows are used to determine the fair value for the majority of remaining financial instruments.
2.10 Impairment of assets excluding financial instruments Assets that have indefinite useful lives are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
All other non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
The Group determines any impairment by comparing the carrying values of each of the Groups assets or cash generating units to which it belongs to their recoverable amounts which is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Fair value represents market value in an active market.
Value in use is determined by discounting future cash flows arising from the asset.
Future cash flows are determined with reference to the Groups own projections using pre-tax discount rates which represent the estimated weighted average cost of capital for the business.
The approach, assumptions and results of the impairment test are set out in note 18.
Impairment reviews involve management making assumptions and estimates, which are highly judgemental and susceptible to change.
76 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 2.11 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is the price paid less any rebates, trade discounts or subsidies.
It also includes delivery charges and import duties, but does not include value added taxes or advertising and administration costs.
Cost is based on the first-in, first-out FIFO principle.
For inventories held for resale, net realisable value is determined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less costs to sell.
For materials and consumables, provision is made for obsolete and slow moving inventories as required.
2.12 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and at bank, shortterm deposits, money market funds and government securities.
They are highly liquid monetary investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the statement of financial position at fair value.
Bank overdrafts are included within loans in current liabilities on the statement of financial position.
2.13 Share capital Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or stand-alone options are recognised in equity as a deduction from the issue proceeds.
2.14 Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment in which the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the underlying liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in payables.
These payments are split between capital and interest elements using the annuity method.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases comprising a lease of land and a lease of buildings within a single contract are split into the two component parts.
The component part for buildings is then tested to determine whether the lease is a finance or operating lease and treated accordingly.
Leases of land and all other leases are classified as operating leases and are not recognised in the statement of financial position.
Payments made under operating leases, net of lease incentives or premiums received, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
2.15 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale When the value of non-current assets is expected to be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing usage, they are classified as non-current assets held for sale.
With the exception of deferred tax assets, assets arising from employee benefits and financial instruments, these assets are classified as current and are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Disposal groups are groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of together as a group in a single transaction.
They are recognised as held for sale at the reporting date and are separately disclosed as current assets and liabilities on the statement of financial position.
Measurement differences arising between the carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal are treated as impairment charges and separately disclosed.
2.16 Employee benefits Defined contribution pensions A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions to a third party.
The Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense as they are incurred.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Defined benefit obligations A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
These schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or Trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 77 Financial statements The asset or liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of each defined benefit pension plan represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date.
Assets are only recognised to the extent that the present value of the economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan exceed the fair value of the plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations.
Defined benefit obligations for each scheme are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of these obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid.
The corporate bonds used have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses, arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions, in the period in which they occur in the statement of comprehensive income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employee remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In these cases, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Current service costs and any past service costs, together with the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities less the expected return on plan assets, are included within operating costs.
The IAS 19 surplus or deficit of defined benefit funds is adjusted to reflect the future economic benefits available in the form of a cash refund or a reduction in future contributions, allowing for minimum funding contributions in accordance with IFRIC 14.
Any adjustment to the surplus is recorded directly in equity.
Other post-employment obligations Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are dealt with in the same way as for defined benefit pension schemes.
Independent qualified actuaries value these obligations annually.
Current service costs are charged to the income statement.
Share-based compensation The Group operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense over the vesting period.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, service, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in estimates about the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original non-market estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to the action leading to the employees termination.
Termination benefits falling due more than a year after reporting date are discounted to present value.
Bonus plans The Group recognises a liability where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The plan rewards executive directors of the Group and certain senior employees in the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
The plan is accounted for as an other long-term employee benefit in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The amount recognised as a liability represents the estimated present value of the obligation at the reporting date.
The LTIP creates a reward pool over a five year period from 1 April 2006 or until a vesting event, if earlier depending on the extent to which the business has grown in value from its base valuation at the start of the period this period was changed from four to five years in July 2009.
Base valuations are adjusted over the performance period i to reflect additional capital notionally treated as borrowed by the business, ii to reflect capital notionally treated as returned by the business: and iii increased by the notional weighted average cost of capital of the business which will be at least 8% per annum compounded.
If the business value is lower than its adjusted base valuation at the end of the performance period, there will be no reward pool.
To the extent that the business value exceeds its adjusted base valuation at the end of the performance period, 10% of the excess growth in value goes into the reward pool.
78 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 2.16 Employee benefits continued Part of the reward pool was paid to participants up to the end of year three 31 March 2009, with a portion payable less payments made at end of year three to participants at the end of year four 31 March 2010 and the balance in full at the end of year five 31 March 2011.
Measurement of the size of the reward pool is carried out every six months to correspond with the Groups accounting periods.
However, apart from awards held by participants who ceased employment as good leavers no awards vested until the end of year three.
In the event of a potential payment to an individual in excess of 20 million US$32 million, the deferral period would be extended until 31 March 2012 or for a period of up to one year following a vesting event, if earlier.
2.17 Tax Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, except where the difference arises from: the initial recognition of goodwill: or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, affecting neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
2.18 Provisions Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
They are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are presented in the statement of financial position at the present value of the estimated future outflows expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The discount rate is the pre-tax rate reflecting the assessment of the settlement date.
Provision charges and reversals are recognised in the income statement.
Discount unwinding is recognised as a finance expense.
Provisions are recognised for unavoidable lease payments in onerous contracts as the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties being sublet.
Redundancy provisions, relating to both continuing and discontinued operations, comprise employee termination payments.
Legal provisions comprise legal fees and, where appropriate, expected settlement costs.
2.19 Revenue recognition Group revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services provided to customers.
It includes sales to joint ventures but does not include sales by joint ventures or sales between Group companies.
Revenue is recognised only when payment is probable.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are provided.
In respect of services invoiced in advance, amounts are deferred until provision of the service.
Amounts payable by and to other telecommunications operators are recognised as the services are provided.
Charges are negotiated separately and are subject to continual review.
Revenue generated through the provision of these services is accounted for gross of any amounts payable to other telecommunications operators for interconnect fees.
Mobile revenue comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, airtime usage, messaging, and the provision of other mobile telecommunications services.
This includes data services and information provision and revenue from the sale of equipment, including handsets.
Mobile monthly access charges are invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle.
Airtime, either from contract customers as part of the invoiced amount or from prepaid customers through the sale of prepaid cards, is recorded in the period in which the customer uses the service.
Unbilled revenue resulting from mobile services provided to contract customers from the billing cycle date to the end of each period is accrued.
Unearned monthly access charges relating to periods after each accounting period are deferred.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 79 Financial statements The Group earns revenue from the transmission of content and traffic on its network originated by third party providers.
The Group assesses whether revenue should be recorded gross as principal or net as agent, based on the features of such arrangements including the following factors: whether the Group holds itself out as an agent: whether the Group has latitude for establishing the price, either directly or indirectly, for example by providing additional services: provision of customer remedies: whether the Group has the primary responsibility for providing the services to the customer or for fulfilling the order: and assumption of credit risk.
Revenue from sales of telecommunications equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer.
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple revenue generating activities generally the sale of telecom equipment and ongoing service is allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently based on the estimated fair value of the components.
Revenue arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised evenly over the periods in which the service is provided.
2.20 Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Dividend income is included within finance income.
2.21 Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
2.22 Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items which derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are identified as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
Further detail on exceptional items is set out in note 7 and in the relevant note for each item.
2.23 Transactions with holders of non-controlling interests Transactions to acquire or dispose of ownership interests in the Groups subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
In these cases, the carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in the Groups relative interest in the subsidiary.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity attributable to the owners of the parent.
2.24 Non-cash distributions to owners Non-cash distributions to owners are accounted for at cost being the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the distribution.
3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, a number of estimates and assumptions have been made relating to the reporting of results of operations and the financial condition of the Group.
Results may differ significantly from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
The Directors consider that the following discussion addresses the Groups most critical accounting policies, which are those that are most important to the presentation of its consolidated financial condition and results.
These particular policies require subjective and complex judgements, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are uncertain.
3.1 Valuation of assets for purchase accounting Where the Group undertakes business combinations, the cost of acquisition is allocated to identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities acquired and assumed by reference to their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition.
The remaining amount is recorded as goodwill.
Any value assigned to the identifiable assets is determined by reference to an active market, independent appraisal or estimate by management based on cash flow projections.
The latter situation includes estimates and judgements regarding expectations for the economic useful lives of the products and technology acquired.
In this situation, where appropriate, third party valuation specialists are involved.
80 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 3.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment The Group assigns useful lives and residual values to property, plant and equipment based on periodic studies of actual asset lives and the intended use for those assets.
Changes in circumstances such as technological advances, prospective economic utilisation and physical condition of the assets concerned could result in the actual useful lives or residual values differing from initial estimates.
Where the Group determines that the useful life of property, plant and equipment should be shortened or residual value reduced, it depreciates the net book value in excess of the residual value over the revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing depreciation expense.
Any change in an assets life or residual value is reflected in the Groups financial statements when the change in estimate is determined.
3.3 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets The Directors assess the impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or otherwise as required by accounting standards.
Factors that are considered important and which could trigger an impairment review include the following: obsolescence or physical damage: significant changes in technology and regulatory environments: significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results: significant changes in the use of its assets or the strategy of the overall business: significant negative industry or economic trends: and significant decline in the market capitalisation relative to net book value for a sustained period.
In addition, the Directors test goodwill at least annually for impairment.
The identification of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of the recoverable amount for assets or cash generating units requires significant judgement.
Note 18 sets out the assumptions and judgements used during these assessments.
3.4 Revenue recognition Judgement is required in assessing the application of revenue recognition principles and the specific guidance in respect of Group revenue.
This includes the presentation of revenue as principal or as agent in respect of income received from transmission of content provided by third parties.
3.5 Receivables allowance The valuation allowance for trade receivables reflects the Groups estimates of losses arising from the failure or inability of the Groups customers to make required payments.
The allowance is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer credit worthiness and the Groups historical write-off experience.
Changes to the allowance may be required if the financial condition of the Groups customers improves or deteriorates.
An improvement in financial condition may result in lower actual write-offs.
Historically, changes to the estimate of losses have not been material to the Groups financial position and results.
3.6 Customer and supplier commitments The nature of the telecommunications industry is such that estimates are often required to be made in relation to customer or supplier commitments, the final outcome of which may not be known for some time.
The Group uses estimates of price or usage to determine the revenue and expense recognised in any period.
These estimates are periodically adjusted to reflect actual pricing or usage as such information becomes available or is agreed.
As issues arise or are resolved, accruals are created or released as appropriate the net impact of this is included in operating profit within the relevant line item.
3.7 Interconnection with other operators As part of the normal course of business, the Group interconnects with other telecommunications operators.
In certain instances it uses estimates to determine the amount of revenue receivable from or expense payable to these other operators.
The prices at which these services are charged are sometimes regulated and may be subject to retrospective adjustment.
Estimates are used in assessing the likely impact of these adjustments.
Adjustments to interconnect estimates are taken to operating profit in the period in which the adjustments are made.
3.8 Taxation The tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges or credits.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items where the tax treatment cannot be finally determined until a resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, if necessary, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material income statement and or cash flow variances.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and is often dependent on the efficiency of the administrative and legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result there can be substantial differences between the tax charge in the income statement and tax payments.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 81 Financial statements 3.9 Recognition of deferred tax assets The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is probable that sufficient suitable taxable profits will be available in the future, against which the reversal of the underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
Recognition therefore involves judgement regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
3.10 Provisions A provision is recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation in respect of a past event as explained in the accounting policy in note 2.18.
Judgement is required to quantify such amounts.
3.11 Pensions The Group provides several defined benefit pension schemes for its employees.
The asset or liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date.
The expected cost of providing these defined benefit pensions will depend on an assessment of such factors as: the life expectancy of the members: the length of service: the rate of salary progression: the rate of return earned on assets in the future: the rate used to discount future pension liabilities: and future inflation rates.
The assumptions used by the Group are set out in note 33 and are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which may not necessarily be borne out in practice but have been comparable to the median estimates in this regard used by FTSE 100 companies.
Changes to these assumptions could materially affect the size of the defined benefit schemes liabilities and assets disclosed in note 33.
3.12 Fair value estimation The basis of determining fair values is set out in note 2.9.
Where market values are not available, fair values are based on valuation methodologies which require inputs and forecasts to be made.
Judgement is required in determining the appropriate assumptions underlying those inputs and forecasts.
The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each reporting date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
3.13 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The charge calculated in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits requires estimates of the valuation of the Group to determine the obligation for the LTIP.
The estimates require the use of a number of assumptions which, by their nature, are subjective.
See page 48 of the Directors remuneration report for further information.
4 Exchange rates The principal exchange rates used in the preparation of these accounts are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 : US$ Average 1.5904 1.7581 Year end 1.4884 1.4498 Euro : US$ Average 1.4131 1.4500 Year end 1.3343 1.3560 82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 5 Revenue 2009 10 2008 09 US$m US$m Continuing operations Sales of telecommunications services and related operations 2,216 2,334 Sales of telecom equipment and accessories 130 113 Total revenue 2,346 2,447 6 Segment information Operating segments for continuing operations Cable & Wireless Communications Group is an international telecommunications service provider.
It has four principal operations which have been identified as the Groups reportable segments, being the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
The Group also had two functions that did not meet the definition of reportable segments.
These functions primarily acted as a portfolio manager and operational support provider for the reportable segments and the Worldwide business since demerged.
These functions were not considered to be operating segments as they did not earn revenue from their activities.
The operating segment results from continuing operations for the two years ended 31 March 2010 are presented below.
The nonoperating central functions are also disclosed in order to reconcile the reportable segment results to the Group results.
The central functions of the Group have been set out below according to their historical presentation.
That is, the former CWI headquarters function has been included in CWI other and eliminations and the former Cable and Wireless plc Group headquarters function has been included under Cable and Wireless plc.
CWI business Total Cable CWI other & Wireless Monaco & and Cable and Communi- 1 2 Caribbean Panama Macau Islands eliminations Wireless plc cations Year ended 31 March 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 873 621 316 552 16 2,346 Cost of sales 227 188 125 200 11 729 Gross margin 646 433 191 352 5 1,617 Pre-exceptional operating costs 376 150 49 178 44 42 751 3 EBITDA 270 283 142 174 39 42 866 LTIP charge 1 1 Depreciation and amortisation 155 75 35 76 7 348 Net other operating income 1 1 1 3 Group operating profit loss 116 209 107 99 31 42 520 Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 19 11 30 Exceptional operating costs 31 4 8 39 82 Total operating profit loss 104 209 107 106 23 81 468 Net other expense 1 Net finance expense 96 Non-operating exceptional items 12 Profit before income tax 383 Income tax 120 Profit for the year from continuing operations 263 1 CWI Other and eliminations includes CWI head office expenses and eliminations for inter-segment transactions between CWI businesses.
2 Cable and Wireless plc represents the Central operating costs of Cable and Wireless plc prior to demerger.
3 EBITDA is used in management reporting as it is considered to be a key financial metric.
It is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, LTIP credit charge, net other operating income expense and exceptional items see note 44.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 83 Financial statements CWI business Total Cable CWI & Wireless Monaco & other and Cable and Communi- 1 2 Caribbean Panama Macau Islands eliminations Wireless plc cations Year ended 31 March 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 975 667 302 506 3 2,447 Cost of sales 257 226 110 201 3 791 Gross margin 718 441 192 305 1,656 Pre-exceptional operating costs 381 165 53 168 32 50 785 3 EBITDA 337 276 139 137 32 50 871 LTIP charge Depreciation and amortisation 119 78 38 54 5 294 Net other operating expense income 4 1 3 Group operating profit loss 214 199 101 83 27 50 574 Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 30 30 60 Exceptional operating costs 54 5 4 24 13 100 Total operating profit loss 190 194 101 109 3 63 534 Net other income expense 19 Net finance expense 61 Non-operating exceptional items 98 Profit before income tax 394 Income tax 88 Profit for the year from continuing operations 306 1 CWI other and eliminations includes CWI head office expenses and eliminations for inter-segment transactions between CWI businesses.
There are no differences in the measurement of the reportable segments results and the Cable & Wireless Communications Groups results.
Details of the segment assets and liabilities for the years ended 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 are: Monaco & Other and 1 Caribbean Panama Macau Islands eliminations Total At 31 March 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total assets 1,318 673 215 1,000 470 3,676 Total assets include: Investments in joint ventures 213 18 231 Additions to non-current assets during the year excluding financial assets, deferred tax assets and defined benefit pension assets 114 95 31 83 6 329 Total liabilities 259 298 67 397 1,794 2,815 1 Other and eliminations includes assets and liabilities of the Central operations of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group and non-operating assets and liabilities.
Monaco & Other and 1 Caribbean Panama Macau Islands eliminations Total At 31 March 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total assets 1,397 647 207 786 476 3,513 Total assets include: Investments in joint ventures 212 115 327 Additions to non-current assets during the year excluding financial assets, deferred tax assets and defined benefit pension assets 150 83 35 72 9 349 Total liabilities 316 284 67 361 1,393 2,421 1 Other and eliminations includes assets and liabilities of the Central operations of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group and non-operating assets and liabilities.
84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 6 Segment information continued There is no significant trading between the segments.
Transactions between the segments are on commercial terms similar to those offered to external customers.
There are no differences in the measurement of the reportable segments assets and liabilities and the Groups assets and liabilities other than those shown in the Other and eliminations column.
Further, there are no asymmetrical allocations to reportable segments.
Entity-wide disclosures for continuing operations The revenue for continuing operations from external customers can be analysed by product as follows: 2009 10 2008 09 US$m US$m Mobile 931 907 Broadband 211 199 Domestic voice 452 519 International voice 195 245 Enterprise, data and other 557 577 Total 2,346 2,447 Revenue for continuing operations from external customers can be classified by country as follows: 2009 10 2008 09 US$m US$m United Kingdom country of domicile Panama 621 667 Jamaica 248 294 Macau 316 302 Monaco 257 287 1 All other countries and eliminations 904 897 Total 2,346 2,447 1 Other includes the Central operations of the Group.
Revenue is allocated to a country based on the location in which the telecommunications services were provided.
The Cable & Wireless Communications Group does not have any customers from which revenue exceeds 10% of Group revenue.
Non-current assets in continuing operations other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and defined benefit pension assets are classified by country as follows: At 31 March At 31 March 2010 2009 US$m US$m United Kingdom country of domicile Panama 455 427 Jamaica 264 306 Macau 111 116 Monaco 346 391 1 All other countries and eliminations 1,236 1,097 Total 2,412 2,337 1 Other includes the Central operations of the Group and non-operating assets and liabilities.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 85 Financial statements 7 Operating costs An analysis of the operating costs from continuing operations incurred by the Group is presented below, classified by the nature of the cost: 2009 10 2008 09 PreExceptional Pre Exceptional exceptional items Total exceptional items Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Outpayments and direct costs 729 729 791 791 Employee and other staff expenses 344 16 360 357 61 418 Operating lease rentals: networks 27 27 23 23 property 27 27 23 13 36 plant and equipment 1 1 1 1 Other administrative expenses 171 33 204 187 26 213 Network costs 116 116 120 120 Property and utility costs 66 66 74 74 Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 1,481 49 1,530 1,576 100 1,676 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 295 295 250 250 Amortisation of intangible assets 53 53 44 44 Operating costs 1,829 49 1,878 1,870 100 1,970 Operating costs are stated net of credits or charges arising from the release or establishment of accruals.
Exceptional items Exceptional items mainly relate to the continuing programme of restructuring the Groups operations including the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business and the One Caribbean programme including redundancy, vacant property and onerous network costs.
Exceptional items within operating costs are disclosed below while further information on other operating and non-operating exceptional items can be found in notes 9 and 13.
2009 10 2008 09 Note US$m US$m Exceptional items within operating costs Staff costs i 16 61 Property costs ii 13 Other costs iii 33 26 Total exceptional operating costs 49 100 i Exceptional staff costs include US$10 million arising from the restructuring of the Groups operations, principally in the Caribbean, and US$6 million relating to the closure of the Central division of Cable and Wireless plc.
In 2008 09, these costs related to the restructuring of the Groups operations, principally in the Caribbean, and were net of US$14 million of gains from restructuring post-retirement plans in Jamaica and Barbados see note 33. ii In 2008 09, exceptional property costs primarily related to provisions relating to vacant property.
iii Exceptional other administrative expenses include US$24 million relating to the One Caribbean restructuring programme and US$9 million relating to costs of defending the Digicel legal claim.
The One Caribbean costs primarily consist of consulting and contractor fees US$20 million and rebranding and other costs incurred on the reorganisation programme US$4 million.
In 2008 09, exceptional other costs mainly related to the One Caribbean restructuring programme.
These costs primarily consisted of US$12 million related to rebranding costs and US$14 million related to restructuring and consultancy.
86 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 7 Operating costs continued Auditors remuneration 2009 10 2008 09 US$m US$m Audit services: Statutory audit services in respect of the Groups accounts 2.0 2.6 Audit of the Groups annual accounts 2.0 2.6 Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates: Statutory audit services in respect of other statutory accounts 1.2 1.4 Audit services in respect of prior years in respect of other statutory accounts 0.2 Audit related regulatory reporting 0.5 0.5 3.7 4.7 Tax services 0.6 0.2 Services related to corporate finance activities 3.2 6.9 Other services 0.8 0.3 8.3 12.1 Auditors remuneration for audit and other services in respect of discontinued operations was US$8 million 2008 09 US$4 million.
These amounts are not included in the table above.
Fees paid to KPMG for audit and other services to the Company are included in the table above and are not disclosed in its individual accounts as the Group accounts are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
8 Other operating income In 2009 10 and 2008 09, other operating income primarily related to gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
9 Other operating expenses In 2009 10, other operating expenses of US$1 million related to losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
In 2008 09, other operating expenses of US$6 million related to US$3 million of losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment and US$3 million of costs relating to hurricane damage.
In 2009 10, exceptional other operating costs of US$33 million related to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger.
These costs primarily related to professional advisors fees.
10 Employee and other staff expenses The pre-exceptional employee and other staff expenses for continuing operations are set out below: 2009 10 2008 09 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 317 350 Social security costs 12 14 Share-based payments 19 12 Long-Term Incentive Plan 1 Pension credit expense: defined benefit schemes 10 defined contribution plans 8 9 Temporary labour and recruitment 17 19 374 394 Less: Staff costs capitalised 30 37 Staff costs 344 357 Exceptional employee and other staff expenses note 7 16 61 Total staff costs 360 418 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 87 Financial statements The average number of persons, including Executive Directors, employed by the Group in continuing operations during the year was: 2009 10 2008 09 Headquarters 199 198 Caribbean 2,831 3,196 Panama 1,765 1,900 Macau 862 903 Monaco & Islands 1,400 1,106 Total 7,057 7,303 In 2009 10, there were 6,575 2008 09 5,605 employees in discontinued operations.
Key managements remuneration Key management are Directors and senior employees that have regular access to inside information and have the power to make managerial decisions affecting the future development and business prospects of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
Included in employee costs is key management remuneration relating to continuing operations as follows: 2009 10 2008 09 US$m US$m Salaries and other short-term employment benefits 6 7 Post-employment benefits 1 Termination benefits 2 Share-based payments 4 8 Long Term Incentive Plan Total 10 18 Included in the table above are aggregate Directors emoluments of US$nil million 2008 09 US$nil million.
Directors of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc were only remunerated for their services from 19 March 2010 to 31 March 2010.
Please refer to the Directors remuneration report on pages 46 to 58 for further information.
Excluded from the table above are key management expenses of US$15 million 2008 09 US$17 million relating to key management in discontinued operations.
11 Gains on the sale of non-current assets 2009 10 2008 09 PrePreexceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Gains on the sale of non-current assets 14 14 In 2009 10, there were no gains on the sale of non-current assets.
In 2008 09 the gain on disposal of non-current assets principally arose on the recycling of foreign currency translation reserve balances on liquidation of subsidiaries.
12 Gains and losses on termination of operations 2009 10 2008 09 PrePreexceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Gain on termination of operations 5 5 Loss on termination of operations 1 1 The pre-exceptional loss of US$1 million 2008 09 gain of US$5 million was the result of the run off activities of the Groups former insurance operation, Pender Insurance Limited Pender.
88 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 13 Finance income and expense 2009 10 2008 09 PrePreexceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Finance income Interest on cash and deposits 10 10 35 35 Investment income 2 2 Foreign exchange gains on deposits 11 11 11 11 Gains on derivative foreign exchange contracts 19 19 Total finance income 23 19 42 46 46 Finance expense Interest on bank loans 36 36 29 29 Interest on bonds 60 60 49 49 Unwinding of discounts on provisions 5 5 2 2 Unwinding of discount on Monaco put option liability 22 22 24 24 Impairment of financial asset 7 7 Losses on derivative foreign exchange contracts 98 98 Capitalised finance transaction costs written off 7 7 123 7 130 111 98 209 Less: Interest capitalised 4 4 4 4 Total finance expense 119 7 126 107 98 205 Tax relief of US$1 million is available on interest capitalised in the year ended 31 March 2010 2008 09 US$1 million.
Interest has been capitalised within property, plant and equipment at a rate of 6% 2008 09 5% on qualifying capital expenditure.
In 2008 09, the Group entered into various foreign exchange contracts to lock in the Sterling cash value of the forecast cash repatriations from foreign operations as well as that of the draw downs on the Groups US$415 million bank facility see note 28.
In 2008 09, this resulted in an exceptional expense of US$98 million from settlement of those contracts and the remeasurement of open contracts to fair value at the year end.
In 2009 10, movements in the fair value of these remaining open contracts relating to repatriation from the prior year resulted in an exceptional finance gain of US$19 million.
14 Income tax expense 2009 10 2008 09 US$m US$m Current tax charge continuing operations UK tax at 28% 16 42 Double tax relief 16 42 Overseas tax 113 106 Adjustments relating to prior years 23 24 Total current tax charge continuing operations 136 82 Deferred tax credit charge continuing operations Origination and reversal of temporary differences 18 7 Adjustments relating to prior years 2 1 Total deferred tax credit charge continuing operations 16 6 Total income tax charge continuing operations 120 88 Income tax credit relating to discontinued operations see note 15 97 58 Total income tax charge 23 30 In 2009 10, the charge of US$120 million 2008 09 US$88 million is net of a US$6 million credit in respect of exceptional operating costs 2008 09 US$12 million credit.
See note 7 for further information.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 89 Financial statements The Groups effective tax rate differs from the UK statutory tax rate as follows: 2009 10 2008 09 % % UK statutory tax rate 28.0 28.0 Effect of overseas tax rates 7.1 4.1 Effect of accounting for joint ventures 2.6 4.6 Effect of branches and intra-group dividends less double tax relief 4.2 11.4 Net effect of income not taxable 1.1 1.5 Effect of changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets 3.4 0.5 Adjustments relating to prior years 6.5 6.4 Effective tax rate on continuing operations 31.3 22.3 Effect of discontinued operations see note 15 26.4 15.3 Effective tax rate on profit 4.9 7.0 Income tax on items of other comprehensive income There was no tax relating to other comprehensive income in the periods presented.
15 Discontinued operations The results for discontinued operations were as follows: 2009 10 2008 09 US$m US$m Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group note 15 i 195 73 Foreign currency translation reserve balance recycled through the income statement on demerger 19 Businesses disposed of in prior periods note 15 ii 4 18 Total discontinued operations 180 91 i Year ended 31 March 2010 At a General Meeting on 25 February 2010, the shareholders of Cable and Wireless plc approved the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business.
On 26 March 2010 the demerger date, the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business was transferred to an unrelated company, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, in return for the entire share capital of that company.
The significant aspects of the demerger transaction were: long-term intercompany debt owed to the Cable & Wireless Communications Group formerly the Cable & Wireless Group of US$1,386 million was capitalised prior to demerger without repayment being required: the convertible bond issued by Cable and Wireless plc and subsequently transferred to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc was transferred to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, along with the related cash of US$366 million see note 28 : the Cable & Wireless Communications Group agreed to transfer cash of US$117 million to settle the Cable & Wireless Worldwide portion of the 2009 10 final dividend of the former Cable & Wireless Group on 1 April 2010.
This is presented in Other payables see note 27 : and scheme assets and pension obligations of the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund with a net IAS 19 value of US$211 million were transferred to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group see note 33.
90 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 15 Discontinued operations continued a The results of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business before demerger were as follows: For the period from 1 April 2009 to 26 March 2010 2008 09 PrePreexceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 3,543 3,543 3,963 3,963 Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation b 2,892 99 2,991 3,420 134 3,554 Depreciation 349 349 306 306 Amortisation 71 71 66 66 Other operating income 2 2 Other operating expense 1 1 2 2 Total operating profit loss 230 99 131 171 134 37 Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets 2 2 2 2 Finance income 3 3 5 5 Finance expense 30 4 34 25 25 Profit loss before income tax 201 103 98 149 134 15 Income tax credit c 97 97 58 58 Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 298 103 195 207 134 73 The results of discontinued operations were previously recorded in the Worldwide operating segment.
This segment is no longer required to be disclosed.
b An analysis of the operating costs incurred by the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business before demerger, classified by the nature of the cost, is as follows: For the period from 1 April 2009 to 26 March 2010 2008 09 US$m US$m Outpayments and direct costs 1,861 2,302 Employee and other staff expenses 520 592 Operating lease rentals 171 189 Other administrative expenses 132 111 Network costs 229 258 Property and utility costs 78 102 Total operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 2,991 3,554 Operating costs are stated net of credits or charges arising from the release or establishment of accruals.
Included within the results of discontinued operations in 2009 10 were US$22 million 2008 09 US$25 million of revenue and cost of sales relating to trading transactions with the continuing business.
These amounts have been eliminated against the results of discontinued operations in the consolidated income statement.
c Income tax relating to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business was as follows: For the period from 1 April 2009 to 26 March 2010 2008 09 US$m US$m Current tax charge 1 6 Deferred tax credit 98 64 Tax on exceptional items Total tax on profit 97 58 UK statutory tax rate 28% 28% Effective tax rate 99 % 387 % Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 91 Financial statements d The financial position of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business at 26 March 2010 the date of demerger and 31 March 2009 was as follows: 26 March 31 March 2010 2009 US$m US$m Non-current assets Intangible assets 1,387 1,356 Property, plant and equipment 1,455 1,374 Available-for-sale financial assets 2 16 Other receivables 34 38 Deferred tax asset 173 78 3,051 2,862 Current assets Trade and other receivables 1,140 939 Inventories 25 4 Cash and cash equivalents 288 209 1,453 1,152 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 1,582 1,593 Loans and obligations under finance leases 37 26 Provisions 58 48 Current tax liabilities 20 19 1,697 1,686 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 1 9 Loans and obligations under finance leases 319 159 Provisions 229 229 Financial liabilities at fair value 2 1 Retirement benefit obligations 35 57 586 455 Net assets 2,221 1,873 ii Year ended 31 March 2010 In 2009 10, the net profit of US$4 million related to cash received in respect of the Groups former US operations.
Year ended 31 March 2009 There were no businesses discontinued during 2008 09.
In 2008 09, the net profit of US$18 million from discontinued operations related to the reversal of unutilised provisions see note 32 relating to the Groups former US operations and businesses disposed of in prior periods.
16 Earnings per share Basic earnings per ordinary share is based on the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding.
As a result of the reorganisation of the Groups legal structure, Cable & Wireless Communications Plc became the new parent of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
Therefore, the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding has been calculated using the number of ordinary shares issued by Cable & Wireless Communications Plc at the date of the reorganisation 19 March 2010 and adjusted for: movements in the number of ordinary shares of Cable and Wireless plc from the beginning of each period prior to the reorganisation date: and movements in the number of ordinary shares outstanding from the reorganisation date to 31 March 2010 using the actual number of ordinary shares of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc outstanding during that period.
92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 16 Earnings per share continued 2009 10 2008 09 US$m US$m Profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders 304 251 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding millions 2,544 2,486 Dilutive effect of share options millions 24 26 Number of ordinary shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share millions 2,568 2,512 Basic earnings per share cents per share 11.9c 10.1c Diluted earnings per share cents per share 11.8c 10.0c Continuing operations Profit and adjusted profit from continuing operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 124 160 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations cents per share 4.9c 6.4c Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations cents per share 4.8c 6.4c Discontinued operations Profit and adjusted profit from discontinued operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 180 91 Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations cents per share 7.0c 3.7c Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations cents per share 7.0c 3.6c 17 Dividends declared and paid 2009 10 2008 09 US$m US$m Final dividend in respect of the prior year 227 216 Interim dividend in respect of the current year 128 125 Total dividend paid 355 341 During the year ended 31 March 2010 the Group declared and paid a final dividend of 5.67 pence per share 9.02 cents per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2009 2008 09 5.00 pence per share 8.79 cents per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2008.
The Group also declared and paid an interim dividend of 3.16 pence per share 5.03 cents per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2010 2008 09 2.83 pence per share 4.98 cents per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2009.
In respect of the year ended 31 March 2010, the Directors have proposed a final dividend of 3.34 pence per share 4.97 cents per share, totalling 86 million US$128 million 2008 09 142 million US$227 million, for approval by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 21 July 2010.
These financial statements do not reflect the proposed dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ended 31 March 2010.
The number of shareholders electing to take all or part of their dividends in shares varies from dividend to dividend.
11,778 shareholders 2008 09 12,057 shareholders owning 871 million shares 2008 09 558 million shares elected to take the interim dividend wholly or partly in shares.
12,015 shareholders 2008 09 12,138 shareholders owning 496 million shares 2008 09 613 million shares elected to take the 2008 09 final dividend wholly or partly in shares.
Consequently, total shares were issued with a value of US$87 million 2008 09 US$83 million.
The Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust waived its right to dividends on the shares held in the trust.
18 Impairment review The Group reviews goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets for impairment annually.
The Group assesses the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets except goodwill for indications of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable by sale or through use.
Factors that are considered important, which could trigger an impairment review, are set out in note 3.3.
Goodwill Continuing operations A review of the carrying value of goodwill has been performed as at 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009.
In performing this review, the recoverable amount of goodwill has been determined by reference to the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use of the continuing operations of the related businesses.
The significant balances of goodwill and the Groups assessment are discussed below.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 93 Financial statements Goodwill of US$153 million was allocated to Monaco Telecom at 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 US$170 million.
Three relevant cash generating units were identified for the purposes of assessing the carrying value of Monaco Telecoms network assets domestic including the cable television business, international business and other services.
Goodwill has been allocated to this group of cash generating units based on the fair value at the time of acquisition.
The value in use was determined for each cash generating unit by discounting future cash flows based on the approved five year business plan extrapolated at long-term growth rates of between 0% and 4% 2008 09 0% and 5% at pre-tax discount rates of between 7% and 15% 2008 09 8% and 18% dependent on the risk adjusted cost of capital of different parts of the business.
The value in use was higher than the fair value less costs to sell and no impairment was required in either period.
The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use relate to revenue growth, operating cost margin and the level of maintenance capital expenditure required to maintain the network at its current level.
Monaco Telecom operates under an exclusive operating agreement in Monaco and managements forecasts were based on historical experience for the business.
The group of cash generating units value in use would not support the carrying value of the goodwill if revenue decreased or maintenance capital expenditure increased by more than US$21 million per year or the discount rate increased by more than 19 percentage points.
Connecteo has only one cash generating unit that has been identified for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of the business.
The value in use was determined by discounting future cash flows based on the approved five year business plan extrapolated at a long-term growth rate of 5% 2008 09 5% at a pre-tax discount rate of 14% 2008 09 16%.
In 2009 10, the goodwill recognised on the acquisition of Connecteo Holding and subsidiaries was impaired by $11 million.
This was due to a decrease in the value in use, triggered by a change in the strategic direction of the operation.
Goodwill of US$25 million was allocated to Dhiraagu at 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 US$nil.
One relevant cash generating unit has been identified for the purposes of assessing the carrying value of the Dhiraagu business.
The value in use was determined by discounting future cash flows based on the approved five year business plan extrapolated at long-term growth rates of 0% at a pre-tax discount rate of 12.5%.
The value in use was higher than the fair value less costs to sell and no impairment was required.
Discontinued operations A review of the carrying value of the goodwill in Cable & Wireless Worldwide entities was performed at 31 March 2009.
In performing this review, the recoverable amount of goodwill was determined by reference to the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use of the continuing operations of the related businesses.
The value in use was the higher of these two measures and no impairment was required.
The significant balances of goodwill within discontinued operations and the Groups assessment are discussed below.
The Worldwide business allocated goodwill to one group of cash generating units as this represented the lowest level within the entity at which goodwill was monitored.
This is because it generated revenue through an integrated network for which the business was unable to identify relevant cash flows separately.
Goodwill of US$1,138 million was allocated to the Worldwide business at 31 March 2009.
A discounted cash flow analysis was performed using a five year business projection which was extended using a terminal value growth rate of 1% and a pre-tax discount rate of 10%.
The terminal growth rate was determined using long-term historical growth rates of the group of CGUs, which were benchmarked to long-term average growth rates of the industry.
The discount rate reflected the market assessment of the risk free rate and equity risk premium of the Group and were benchmarked against published industry data.
The other key assumptions on which the projected cash flows were based relate to EBITDA growth and the level of capital expenditure required to maintain the network at its current level.
These assumptions were determined using a combination of long-term trends, industry forecasts and in-house estimates.
The value in use would not have supported the carrying value of the goodwill if earnings decreased or maintenance capital expenditure increased by more than US$88 million per year: or the discount rate increased by more than six percentage points.
Property, plant and equipment and other intangibles Year ended 31 March 2010 and year ended 31 March 2009 Trade mark assets of US$18 million were allocated to Dhiraagu at 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 US$nil.
There were no other events or changes in circumstances during the year to indicate that the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets in both continuing and discontinued operations had been impaired.
94 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 19 Intangible assets Licences and Customer operating contracts and Goodwill Software agreements relationships Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2008 1,098 1,458 204 264 80 3,104 Business combinations 621 2 26 9 658 Additions 58 1 4 63 Disposals 9 2 11 Exchange differences 392 389 23 79 11 894 At 31 March 2009 1,327 1,118 184 211 80 2,920 Business combinations 35 51 18 104 Additions 54 6 60 Disposals 45 45 Transfer between categories 30 30 Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business 1,192 1,049 10 216 2,467 Exchange differences 26 28 1 5 2 62 At 31 March 2010 196 151 145 51 91 634 Amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2008 1,324 36 62 68 1,490 1 Charge for the year 59 12 27 12 110 Disposals 9 2 11 Exchange differences 356 6 22 12 396 At 31 March 2009 1,018 42 67 66 1,193 1 Charge for the year 11 59 14 33 7 124 Disposals 33 33 Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business 981 4 95 1,080 Exchange differences 1 18 4 3 16 At 31 March 2010 10 114 48 5 43 220 Net book value At 31 March 2010 186 37 97 46 48 414 At 31 March 2009 1,327 100 142 144 14 1,727 1 The charge for the year includes US$71 million 2008 09 US$66 million relating to discontinued operations.
Goodwill balances can be summarised as follows: Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun 2 Monaco Private Ltd 1 1 1 2 2 Energis THUS Apollo Telecom Connecteo Dhiraagu Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2008 862 216 20 1,098 Business combinations see note 38 600 16 7 2 621 Foreign exchange movements 237 105 2 53 1 392 At 31 March 2009 625 495 18 170 19 1,327 Business combinations see note 38 27 17 25 35 Impairment 11 11 Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business note 15 642 532 18 1,192 Foreign exchange movements 17 10 27 At 31 March 2010 153 8 25 186 1 Reporting segment: Discontinued.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 95 Financial statements 20 Property, plant and equipment 2009 10 2008 09 Land and Plant and Assets under Land and Plant and Assets under buildings equipment construction Total buildings equipment construction Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 841 11,349 268 12,458 1,010 13,666 290 14,966 Business combinations 8 105 38 151 19 339 358 Additions 2 28 663 693 2 141 597 740 Movements in asset retirement obligations 6 1 5 11 9 20 Disposals 14 220 234 58 531 5 594 Transfers between categories 46 583 629 33 536 569 Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business note 15 479 8,002 103 8,584 Exchange differences 8 178 1 187 176 2,811 45 3,032 At 31 March 406 4,022 238 4,666 841 11,349 268 12,458 Depreciation At 1 April 545 8,937 9,482 678 11,312 11,990 1 Charge for the year 29 615 644 47 509 556 Disposals 8 199 207 56 527 583 Transfer between categories 2 2 Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business note 15 399 6,730 7,129 Exchange differences 8 143 151 124 2,357 2,481 At 31 March 177 2,764 2,941 545 8,937 9,482 Net book value at 31 March 229 1,258 238 1,725 296 2,412 268 2,976 1 The charge for the year includes US$349 million 2008 09 US$306 million relating to discontinued operations.
Included in the net book value of property, plant and equipment at 31 March 2010 is US$nil 31 March 2009 US$28 million of assets held under finance leases.
Additions during the year include interest and own work capitalised during the construction of certain assets of US$4 million 2008 09 US$3 million and US$130 million 2008 09 US$126 million respectively.
Of the US$130 million of own work capitalised during the year, US$100 million 2008 09 US$89 million related to discontinued operations.
96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 21 Investments in joint ventures 2009 10 2008 09 US$m US$m Gross carrying amount At 1 April Cost 89 126 Share of post-acquisition reserves 301 250 390 376 Share of post-tax profit 30 56 Dividends paid to Group companies 52 30 Transfer to subsidiary undertaking 79 14 Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business 4 Loan from Group companies 3 Other movements 2 Exchange differences 4 26 At 31 March 290 390 Impairment allowance At 1 April 63 92 Impairment allowance release 4 Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business 4 Exchange differences 25 At 31 March 59 63 Net carrying amount at 31 March 231 327 The Groups total interest in its joint ventures is presented below: 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 US$m US$m Non-current assets 338 322 Current assets 182 211 Current liabilities 164 139 Non-current liabilities 125 67 Share of net assets 231 327 2009 10 2008 09 US$m US$m Revenue 384 408 Operating costs 342 336 Operating profit 42 72 Net financing costs 4 Share of profit before tax 38 72 Income tax expense 8 12 Dividends paid to Group companies 52 30 Share of retained profit 22 30 Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
The carrying amount of the investments comprise the cost of the investment together with the Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss less any impairment allowances.
There are no significant restrictions on joint ventures ability to transfer funds to the Group.
The joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed, nor has the Group any significant contingent liabilities in relation to its interests in joint ventures.
The Groups joint ventures have not discontinued any operations during the year ended 31 March 2010 2008 09 none.
On 21 October 2009, the Group purchased a further 7% of the share capital of Dhiraagu from the Maldives government for cash consideration of US$40 million.
This transaction resulted in the Cable & Wireless Communications Group reclassifying its joint venture investment in this entity to a subsidiary investment.
For more details of this acquisition see note 38.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 97 Financial statements Discontinued operations On 1 April 2008 the Group gained full management control of Apollo Submarine Cable Systems Limited which was previously accounted for as a joint venture see note 38.
This resulted in US$14 million of post acquisition losses associated with this entity being transferred to subsidiary undertakings.
22 Available-for-sale financial assets 2009 10 2008 09 US$m US$m At 1 April 55 54 Business combinations 18 Additions 2 Fair value gains recorded in equity 2 Transferred on demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business note 15 2 Released to cash and cash equivalents 30 Exchange differences 4 19 At 31 March 29 55 At 31 March 2010 available-for-sale financial assets primarily comprised UK Government gilts and cash held as collateral 31 March 2009 UK Government gilts and cash held as collateral.
These assets were measured at fair value based on observable market data.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for available-for-sale financial assets is equal to their carrying value.
During the year cash held as collateral of US$30 million was released by the beneficiaries as the collateral was no longer required.
This amount was included in cash and cash equivalents.
23 Trade and other receivables 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 US$m US$m Gross trade receivables 298 1,010 Valuation allowance 62 100 Net trade receivables 236 910 Other receivables 53 102 Prepayments and accrued income 189 380 Taxation and social security receivables 9 15 Amounts receivable from joint ventures 4 4 Trade and other receivables current 491 1,411 Other receivables 42 43 Prepayments and accrued income 32 Trade and other receivables non-current 42 75 Total trade and other receivables 533 1,486 The maximum exposure to credit risk for receivables is equal to their carrying value.
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other receivables presented.
Concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade receivables are small as the Group customer base is large and unrelated.
Receivables predominantly relate to retail customers, Governments and corporate entities as well as other telecommunications operators.
Credit risk procedures vary depending on the size or type of customer.
These procedures include such activities as credit checks, payment history analysis and credit approval limits.
Based on these procedures, management assessed the credit quality of those receivables that are neither past due nor impaired as low risk.
There have been no significant changes to the composition of receivables counterparties within the Group that indicate this would change in the future.
During the periods presented there was an economic downturn in markets in which the Group operated.
This would indicate an increased credit risk on receivables that are neither past due nor impaired.
However, management assessed this risk and, after providing additional valuation allowance where necessary, continued to support the assessment of credit quality as low risk.
98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 23 Trade and other receivables continued An ageing analysis of the current net trade and other receivables that were not impaired is as follows: 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 US$m US$m Not yet due 124 487 Overdue 30 days or less 83 170 Overdue 31 to 60 days 29 59 Overdue 61 to 90 days 26 42 Overdue 91 days to 180 days 18 84 Overdue 181 days or more 9 170 Current net trade and other receivables 289 1,012 Due to the nature of the telecommunications industry, balances relating to interconnection with other carriers often have lengthy settlement periods.
Generally, interconnection agreements with major carriers result in receivables and payables balances with the same counterparty.
Industry practice is that receivable and payable amounts relating to interconnection revenue and costs for a defined period are agreed between counterparties and settled on a net basis.
There are no amounts held as collateral for trade and other receivables balances.
An analysis of movements in the trade receivables valuation allowance for the year is as follows: 2009 10 2008 09 US$m US$m At 1 April 100 144 Bad debts written off 51 51 Increase in allowance 56 30 Demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business note 15 48 Exchange differences 5 23 At 31 March 62 100 All trade transactions with joint ventures arose in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of the Groups products and services.
There were no material transactions with joint ventures during the year.
24 Inventories Inventories represent equipment, consumables and accessories held for sale.
Inventories of US$49 million 31 March 2009 US$33 million are presented net of an allowance of US$4 million 31 March 2009 US$7 million made against slow moving or obsolete items.
The cost of equipment, consumables and accessories held for sale that were expensed within operating costs in 2009 10 was US$155 million 2008 09 US$152 million.
US$18 million 2008 09 US$10 million of this expense related to discontinued operations.
Inventories of the Group are not pledged as security or collateral against any of the Groups borrowings.
25 Cash and cash equivalents 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 140 257 Short-term bank deposits 433 533 Cash and cash equivalents 573 790 Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and short-term bank deposits.
Short-term bank deposits consist primarily of money market deposits, which can be readily converted to cash at short notice.
The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits at 31 March 2010 was 0.34% 31 March 2009 0.45%.
At 31 March 2010, these deposits had an average maturity of one day 31 March 2009 five days.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for cash and cash equivalents is equal to the carrying value of those financial instruments.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 99 Financial statements 26 Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 2009 10 2008 09 US$m US$m At 1 April Shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc retained on demerger 64 Derivative financial instruments 1 At 31 March 65 On demerger, shares in the Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust ESOP were converted from 43 million Cable and Wireless plc shares to 43 million Cable & Wireless Communications Plc shares and 43 million Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares.
The Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares have been recognised as financial assets at fair value through the income statement as they represent shares in an unrelated listed company.
A portion of these shares with a market value of US$30 million will be delivered to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group as part of the demerger agreement see note 15.
27 Trade and other payables 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 US$m US$m Trade payables 168 797 Other taxation and social security costs 29 74 Accruals 313 750 Deferred income 53 470 Other payables 206 97 Trade and other payables current 769 2,188 Accruals 3 15 Other payables 1 Trade and other payables non-current 3 16 Total trade and other payables 772 2,204 There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other payables presented.
100 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 28 Loans and obligations under finance leases continued 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 US$m US$m Loans Sterling secured loans repayable in 2012 43 42 Sterling secured loans repaid during the year 138 US$415 million secured loan repaid during the year 411 US$500 million secured bonds due 2017 489 Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 509 496 US dollar and currencies linked to the US dollar loans repayable at various dates up to 2038 196 214 Other currency loans repaid 4 1,237 1,305 Loans current 58 116 Loans non-current 1,179 1,189 Finance leases Obligations under finance leases 31 Obligations under finance leases current 14 Obligations under finance leases non-current 17 Loans and obligations under finance leases current 58 130 Loans and obligations under finance leases non-current 1,179 1,206 The agreements for the facilities entered into during the year contain financial and other covenants which are standard to these type of arrangements.
Loans The contractual maturities of loans including the expected interest payable at rates prevailing at the reporting date was as follows: 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 US$m US$m Loans Due in less than one year 157 194 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 181 157 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 574 998 Due in more than five years 885 310 Total loans 1,797 1,659 Less future finance charges on loans 560 354 Total loans 1,237 1,305 During 2009 10, the US$415 million loan repayable at dates to 2011 was repaid and cancelled.
This facility was secured over the Groups Panamanian and Caribbean subsidiaries.
The Group entered into a US$500 million revolving credit facility secured on share pledges over Group assets.
This facility was undrawn at 31 March 2010.
Further, the Group arranged a US$100 million term loan facility.
This was secured on share pledges over the Group assets.
US dollar secured bonds due 2017 During the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group arranged US$500 million of bonds with a coupon of 7.75% due 2017.
These bonds had a fair value of US$520 million at 31 March 2010.
This value was determined by reference to market values obtained from third parties.
The bonds are secured on share pledges over the Group assets.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 101 Financial statements Sterling unsecured bonds due 2012 and 2019 The Group has US$298 million 200 million listed bonds due in 2012 with a balance outstanding at 31 March 2010, net of costs, of US$290 million 31 March 2009 US$283 million.
Interest is payable at 8.750% per annum.
During the year ended 31 March 2009, bonds with a par value, net of costs, of US$52 million were reissued by Cable and Wireless plc for US$49 million net proceeds.
The Group also has US$298 million 200 million listed bonds due in 2019 with a balance outstanding at 31 March 2010, net of costs, of US$219 million 31 March 2009 US$213 million.
Interest is payable at 8.625% per annum.
The Sterling unsecured bonds had a fair value of US$547 million at 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 US$462 million.
US dollar and US dollar linked loans Various US dollar and US dollar linked loans of approximately US$196 million 31 March 2009 US$214 million are held by various subsidiaries across the Group, with the majority in Panama.
Interest on these loans ranges between 0% and 10.3%.
The loans are repayable over a period up to 2038.
The carrying amount of the US dollar and currencies linked to the US dollar loans approximates to fair value.
Loans demerged during the period During the year the Group repaid its Sterling 200 million facility repayable in 2012.
During the year, the Group obtained a 300 million facility repayable in 2013.
This facility, of which US$nil million was drawn down at 26 March 2010 US$144 million drawn down at 31 March 2009 was derecognised on the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business.
In addition, US$12 million of the dollar loans repayable in 2010 and US$4 million of the other currency loans repayable in 2010 were derecognised with the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business.
On 24 November 2009, convertible bonds due in 2014 of 230 million were issued by Cable and Wireless plc.
These bonds were subsequently transferred to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc on 19 March 2010 before being transferred to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc on 26 March 2010 as part of the demerger.
The bonds were separated into their loan and equity components on inception, being US$329 million of loan and US$37 million of equity on initial recognition.
Obligations under finance leases The obligations under finance leases were derecognised on the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business to which they related.
The repayment profile of obligations under finance leases was as follows: Net finance lease Minimum finance liabilities lease payments 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 2010 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m Due in less than one year 14 16 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 10 10 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 4 4 Due in more than five years 3 3 Total 31 33 Less future finance charges on finance leases 2 Present value of finance lease liabilities 31 Interest rates The weighted average interest rates at the reporting date were as follows: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Interest Interest rate rate Type Currency % Currency % US$500 million secured bonds due 2017 Fixed USD 7.8 USD US dollar and currencies linked to the US dollar loans and facilities repayable at various dates up to 2038 Fixed and floating USD 6.4 USD 3.7 Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 and Sterling secured facilities Fixed GBP 8.6 GBP 7.7 Other currency loans repaid during the period Floating Other Other 5.7 Obligations under finance leases Fixed GBP GBP 7.1 Interest was payable on loans and obligations under finance leases falling due after more than five years at rates of between 0.00% and 8.63%.
In 2008 09 the rates were 0.00% and 10.03% respectively.
102 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 29 Financial liabilities at fair value At 31 March 2010 At 31 March 2009 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Forward exchange contracts 36 36 Put option relating to Monaco Telecom 189 189 201 201 Other put option 1 1 Obligation to transfer Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares 30 30 Total financial liabilities at fair value 30 189 219 36 202 238 Derivative financial instruments At 31 March 2010, the Group had foreign exchange swap contracts to sell US$40 million in 2012 hedging future Sterling obligations regarding the 2012 bond.
The Group did not apply hedge accounting to these contracts and as such they were revalued to fair value through the income statement.
At 31 March 2010, the fair value of these contracts was an asset of US$1 million see note 26.
Monaco Telecom put option A put option is held by the non-controlling shareholder of Monaco Telecom, the Principality of Monaco the Principality.
This put option is measured at fair value using inputs that are not based on publicly observable market data.
The liability for the put option represents 45% of the market value of Monaco Telecom.
This market value has been determined by taking an average of published broker valuations for the Monaco & Islands business unit apportioned using key financial measures and attributing 45% of that value to the put option.
The brokers have valued the business unit using a combination of discounted cash flow analysis and EBITDA multiples factoring in the expected growth and risk of the business unit.
A US$10 million movement in the value of the put would have a US$1 million impact on the income statement and a US$10 million impact on liabilities.
The balance within financial liabilities held at fair value represents the fair value of the put option held by the non-controlling shareholders of Monaco Telecom.
Although the Cable & Wireless Communications Group considers there to be only a remote likelihood of this put option being exercised, IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation requires the present value of the amount payable to be recognised as a liability regardless of the probability of exercise, as this is not within the Cable & Wireless Communications Groups control.
As this put option was issued as part of a business combination, any change in re-measuring the derivative to fair value is recorded as an adjustment to goodwill see note 38.
The put option held by the Principality is exercisable in two tranches.
The first tranche enables the Principality to put 20% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to the Cable & Wireless Communications Group from six months post 18 June 2011, 2014 and 2017.
The second tranche enables the Principality to put 25% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to the Cable & Wireless Communications Group three years after the first has been exercised.
A reconciliation of the movements in the value of the Monaco Telecom put option is as follows: 2009 10 2008 09 US$m US$m At 1 April 201 264 Change in fair value recognised as an adjustment to goodwill 29 12 Increase in value of put option due to discount unwinding recognised as finance expense 21 24 Decreases due to exchange movements recognised in foreign currency reserve 4 75 At 31 March 189 201 Obligation to transfer Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares As part of the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, Cable and Wireless plc shares held by the Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP Trust were converted into one share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and one share in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc for every share in Cable and Wireless plc held.
The shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc have been reclassified from equity to assets at fair value through the income statement see note 26.
The terms of the demerger require that 22 million of the shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc held by the ESOP Trust with a market value of US$30 million will be transferred to a similar trust for the benefit of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group.
This obligation, to be settled in May 2010, has been recorded as a liability.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 103 Financial statements 30 Financial instruments The fair value hierarchy for instruments measured at fair value is as follows: At 31 March 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Note US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets measured at fair value: Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares at fair value through the income statement 26 64 64 UK Government Gilts 22 27 27 Cash held as collateral 22 2 2 Derivative instruments 26 1 1 Total financial assets at fair value 93 1 94 Financial liabilities measured at fair value: Put option relating to Monaco Telecom 29 189 189 Obligation to transfer Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares 29 30 30 Total financial liabilities at fair value 30 189 219 Level 1 Fair values measured using quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
A reconciliation of the fair value of the put option can be found in note 29.
31 Deferred tax The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are as follows: Capital allowances on Financial non-current position assets Tax losses Pensions Other offset Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax assets 59 40 4 2 52 53 Deferred tax liabilities 90 10 12 52 60 At 1 April 2008 31 40 6 10 7 1 Credit to the income statement 36 19 1 4 58 Tax charge to equity 1 1 Exchange differences 4 10 1 2 11 At 31 March 2009 1 49 7 4 39 Deferred tax assets 91 49 6 7 60 93 Deferred tax liabilities 90 13 11 60 54 At 31 March 2009 1 49 7 4 39 1 Credit to the income statement 101 18 1 4 114 Tax credit to equity 2 2 Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business note 15 169 4 173 Exchange differences 4 1 1 1 5 At 31 March 2010 71 62 5 9 23 Deferred tax assets 13 62 6 7 69 19 Deferred tax liabilities 84 11 16 69 42 At 31 March 2010 71 62 5 9 23 1 T he income statement credit comprises a US$98 million 2008 09 US$64 million credit relating to discontinued operations and a US$16 million credit 2008 09 US$6 million charge relating to continuing operations.
104 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 31 Deferred tax continued Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following temporary differences: Capital allowances available on non-current assets Tax losses Pensions Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m As at 31 March 2009 5,694 30,496 92 227 36,509 As at 31 March 2010 269 5,041 199 98 5,607 Tax losses recognised and unrecognised expire as follows: 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 US$m US$m Within 1 year 2 19 Within 3 years 19 Within 5 years 1 27 Within 10 years 18 118 After more than 10 years 173 69 Other tax losses are not subject to expiry.
The US$5,041 million 31 March 2009 US$30,496 million tax losses include UK capital losses of US$4,889 million 31 March 2009 US$11,638 million.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures where the Group controls the timing of remittance and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches and joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is US$325 million 31 March 2009 US$1,007 million.
These temporary differences relate to unremitted earnings.
Following the change in the UK tax treatment of dividends on 1 July 2009, no tax is expected to arise on distributions from Group entities and no temporary difference exists, except where withholding tax or other foreign tax could arise on the remittance.
32 Provisions 2009 10 2008 09 Network Network and asset Legal and asset Legal Redundancy retirement and Redundancy retirement and Property costs obligations other Total Property costs obligations other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 115 35 191 86 427 138 24 162 130 454 Additions from businesses acquired 11 11 2 60 2 64 Additional provision 24 35 14 140 213 70 107 49 69 295 Amounts used 29 48 17 95 189 33 88 19 74 214 1 Unused amounts reversed 13 3 6 36 58 30 4 16 26 76 Effect of discounting 6 8 14 6 12 18 Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business note 15 110 9 164 4 287 Disposals 3 3 Exchange differences 2 2 1 3 38 4 57 15 114 At 31 March 6 10 25 90 131 115 35 191 86 427 Provisions current 6 10 4 84 104 29 35 20 73 157 Provisions non-current 21 6 27 86 171 13 270 1 Unused amounts reversed include US$30 million 2008 09 US$37 million relating to continuing operations and US$28 million 2008 09 US$39 million relating to discontinued operations.
The net expense recognised in the income statement from movements in provisions relating to discontinued operations was US$95 million 2008 09 US$122 million expense.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 105 Financial statements Property Provision has been made for the lower of the best estimate of the unavoidable lease payments or cost of exit in respect of vacant properties.
Unavoidable lease payments represent the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties being sublet.
The provision is expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
In 2009 10, US$13 million of property provisions were released in respect of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business.
Redundancy In the periods presented, provision was made for the total employee related costs of redundancies announced prior to the reporting dates.
Amounts provided for and spent during the periods presented primarily relate to the restructuring.
The provision is expected to be used within one year.
Network and asset retirement obligations In the periods presented, provision was made for the best estimate of the unavoidable costs associated with redundant leased network capacity.
These provisions were expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Provision was also made for the best estimate of the asset retirement obligation associated with office sites, technical sites, domestic and sub-sea cabling.
This provision was expected to be used at the end of the life of the related asset on which the obligation arose.
Amounts utilised in the periods presented related predominantly to cash expenditure against unavoidable costs associated with redundant network capacity.
The release of unused amounts related to the reassessment of amounts in respect of exiting network sites and onerous network contracts.
Legal and other At 31 March 2010, this provision primarily comprised costs relating to the demerger such as advisors fees and closure costs.
It also included amounts in respect of certain employee benefits and taxes, sales taxes, specific legal claims and acquisitions.
In the prior period, other provisions included amounts relating to specific legal claims against the Group, the disposal of previously discontinued US businesses, amounts relating to specific claims held against the Groups former insurance operation Pender, amounts relating to restructuring and rebranding, and amounts relating to acquisitions and disposals of Group companies and investments.
The release of unused amounts reflected the resolution of claims and other risks during the year.
33 Retirement benefits obligations The Cable & Wireless Communications Group operates pension schemes for its current and former UK and overseas employees.
These schemes include both defined benefit schemes, where retirement benefits are based on employees remuneration and length of service, and defined contribution schemes, where retirement benefits reflect the accumulated value of agreed contributions paid by, and in respect of, employees.
Contributions to the defined benefit schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of independent actuaries who value the schemes.
Demerger As part of the demerger see note 15, a portion of the scheme assets and pension obligations of the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund CWSF, a plan operated by the former Cable & Wireless Group, were to be transferred to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Retirement Plan CWWRP, a new plan operated by the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group.
The pension obligations transferred to Cable & Wireless Worldwide were determined based on members last known employer.
The plan assets are determined by reference to the value of the obligations transferred.
Under IAS 19, this results in defined benefit plan assets of US$1.8 billion and defined benefit pension obligations of US$2.0 billion being transferred to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group on 26 March 2010, and being derecognised from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group accounts.
Cable & Wireless Communications continues to operate the CWSF post demerger.
Defined contribution schemes The pension cost for the year for the defined contribution schemes of the Group was US$36 million 2008 09 US$32 million.
Of this amount, US$8 million 2008 09 US$9 million related to defined contributions made in respect of Cable & Wireless Communications employees.
The pension cost of the defined contribution amounts in respect of the members of the CWSF was US$27 million 2008 09 US$22 million.
US$2 million 2008 09 US$3 million of this related to Cable & Wireless Communications employees.
The pre-exceptional defined contribution pension cost for continuing operations has been included in employee benefit expenses note 10.
106 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 33 Retirement benefits obligations continued Defined benefit schemes Cable & Wireless Communications operates the CWSF.
This plan provides defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements for current and former employees of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
These arrangements are provided on the same basis as when the plan was operated by the Cable & Wireless Group.
The CWSF has been closed to new defined benefit members since 1998.
Additionally the Group operates unfunded defined benefit arrangements in the UK.
These primarily relate to pension provisions for former directors and other senior employees in respect of their earnings in excess of the previous Inland Revenue salary cap.
The Group operates other defined benefit pension schemes in Macau, Jamaica, Barbados and Guernsey, with post retirement medical benefits in Jamaica and Barbados.
Further, until the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business, the Group operated defined benefit arrangements in Hong Kong and Ireland, the THUS Group pension scheme, and other small defined benefit retirement plans in the UK.
Funding valuation Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund The latest triennial actuarial valuation of the CWSF was carried out by independent actuaries Towers Watson & Co as at 31 March 2007.
A US$28 million contribution US$22 million relating to discontinued operations was paid on 28 March 2008 to remove the deficit calculated by this valuation.
The assumptions regarding current mortality rates in retirement were set having regard to the actual experience of the CWSFs pensioners and dependants over the five years ended 31 March 2007.
In addition, allowance was made for future mortality improvements in line with medium cohort projections of the 1992 mortality series tables published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, subject to a minimum annual rate of improvement of 1.5%.
These are the mortality rates used for calculating the figures in the income statement and the statement of financial position for the years ending 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2010.
Based on these assumptions, the life expectancies of pensioners aged 60 were as follows: On On On 31 March 31 March 31 March 2010 2020 2030 years years years Male 27.8 29.3 30.8 Female 29.1 30.7 32.3 The March 2007 actuarial valuation showed that based on long-term financial assumptions the contribution rate required to meet the future benefit accrual was 33.2% of pensionable earnings 28.5% employers and 4.7% employees.
This contribution rate will be reviewed when the next triennial valuation is carried out, as at 31 March 2010.
The terms of the CWSF Trust Deed also allow the Trustee or the Company to call for a valuation at any time.
The future service contribution rate includes an allowance of 3% of pensionable earnings for administration expenses, excluding the Pension Protection Fund PPF levy.
In July 2009, an interim funding agreement was reached with the CWSF Trustee whereby additional contributions were to be paid to the CWSF in anticipation of the 31 March 2010 actuarial valuation.
On demerger, this agreement was replaced with two interim funding agreements, one for the CWSF and one for the CWWRP.
As a result, Cable & Wireless Communications will pay US$13 million into the CWSF in October 2010 and a further US$30 million in April 2011.
In addition, Cable & Wireless Communications made a US$40 million cash injection into the CWSF on 31 March 2010, to reflect an agreed fide-risking of the investment strategy in view of the change in the schemes liability profile as a consequence of the split of membership on demerger.
The Group paid a total contribution of US$75 million in 2009 10 to the CWSF to meet the cost of future benefit accrual and expenses, to recover part of the deficit on the scheme funding basis, and to meet the cost of the agreed derisking of the Funds investment strategy.
A US$149 million contingent funding agreement was agreed with the CWSF Trustee in connection with the demerger, under which the Trustee can call for a letter of credit or cash escrow in certain circumstances, such as material deterioration in the financial performance of the business.
During 2008 09, the CWSF Trustee agreed a buy-in of the UK pensioner element of the scheme with Prudential Insurance.
The buy-in involved the purchase of a bulk annuity policy by the scheme under which Prudential Insurance assumed responsibility for the benefits payable to the schemes UK pensioners with effect from 1 August 2008.
The pensioner liabilities and the matching annuity policy remain within the scheme.
The premium for the annuity policy was approximately US$1.76 billion which the scheme settled with a combination of cash and assets including an additional Group contribution of US$18 million of which US$14 million related to discontinued operations.
Upon demerger, a share of the annuity policy was transferred to the CWWRP in proportion to the share of pensioner obligations transferred.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 107 Financial statements IAS 19 valuation Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund and other schemes The IAS 19 valuations of the major defined benefit pension schemes and medical plans operated by the Group have been updated to 31 March 2010 by qualified independent actuaries.
Lane, Clark & Peacock LLP prepared the valuation for the CWSF and the UK unfunded arrangements.
Towers Watson & Co prepared the valuation for the THUS scheme and reviewed the IAS 19 valuations prepared for all remaining schemes.
The main financial assumptions applied in the valuations and an analysis of schemes assets are as follows: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Other Other CWSF schemes CWSF schemes Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Assets Assumption US$m % US$m % US$m % US$m % Inflation assumption 3.6 4.6 3.0 4.3 Salary increases 4.1 5.1 3.5 5.5 Pension increases 2.3-3.5 3.2 2.23.0 4.5 Discount rate 5.5 7.4 6.7 7.9 Medical cost trends for post-retirement medical plans 5.0 9.7 Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets Annuity policies 1,000 5.5 73 8.0 1,196 6.7 64 8.0 Equities 163 8.3 89 8.0 752 8.0 145 8.1 Bonds and gilts 37 5.4 78 2.5 74 5.6 139 5.6 Property 22 6.8 40 1.4 110 6.5 55 8.5 Cash and swaps 90 3.9 27 1.3 275 3.3 1,312 307 2,407 403 Assumptions used are best estimates from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The assumptions shown above for Other schemes represent a weighted average of the assumptions used for the individual schemes.
A one year increase in the life expectancy assumptions would have increased the CWSF liabilities by approximately US$45 million as at 31 March 2010.
The corresponding increase in the value of assets due to the change in the estimated value of the annuity policy would be US$33 million.
A 0.25% pa decrease in the discount rate used to value the scheme liabilities would have increased the liabilities by around US$55 million.
The corresponding increase in the value of assets due to the change in the estimated value of the annuity policy would be US$30 million.
A 0.25% pa change in the assumed rate of salary increases would have changed the liabilities by a negligible amount.
Excluding the annuities, which are measured at the value of the obligation to which they relate, the overall expected rate of return for each pension scheme is a weighted average of the expected asset return for each asset class.
The expected asset return for each asset class has been set as a best estimate of the long-term return that will be achieved for the particular asset class in the country in question having regard to investment yields on the measurement date.
Using the projected unit credit method used for the valuation of liabilities, the current service cost is expected to increase when expressed as a percentage of pensionable payroll as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
During 2008 09, the defined benefit pension schemes and post-retirement medical plans of Cable & Wireless Jamaica were restructured in order to reduce financial risk materially.
The restructure involved the purchase of annuities for all of the defined benefit obligations, a change in member benefits and the transfer of all of the retirement medical plan obligations to a third party insurer.
The restructure resulted in a curtailment gain of US$18 million.
The transfer of the retirement medical plan obligations resulted in a settlement loss of US$6 million.
The curtailment gain and settlement loss have been recorded as a net exceptional gain of US$12 million.
There was also an exceptional curtailment gain in Barbados of US$2 million in 2008 09.
Refer to note 7 for further details.
108 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 33 Retirement benefits obligations continued The assets and liabilities of the defined benefit pension schemes and post-retirement medical plans operated by the Group were as follows: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Other Other CWSF schemes Total CWSF schemes Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total fair value of plan assets 1,312 307 1,619 2,407 403 2,810 Present value of funded obligations 1,477 275 1,752 2,453 393 2,846 Excess of liabilities assets of funded obligations 165 32 133 46 10 36 Present value of unfunded obligations 42 42 35 35 Effect of asset ceiling 17 17 13 13 Net deficit 165 27 192 46 38 84 Liabilities Defined benefit pension plans in deficit 165 54 219 46 70 116 Unfunded post-retirement medical plans 8 8 7 7 Total 165 62 227 46 77 123 Assets Defined benefit pension plans in surplus 35 35 39 39 Net of amounts attributable to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business.
Included within these liabilities is an amount of US$24 million 2008 09 US$21 million to cover the cost of former Directors pension entitlements.
When defined benefit funds have an IAS 19 surplus, they are recorded at the lower of that surplus and the future economic benefits available in the form of a cash refund or a reduction in future contributions.
The effect of these adjustments, described as asset ceiling adjustments, were US$17 million as at 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 US$13 million.
The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 CWSF Other Total CWSF Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Continuing operations Current service cost 1 5 6 4 5 9 Interest cost 35 18 53 40 28 68 Expected return on plan assets 37 22 59 47 40 87 Gains on curtailment or settlement 4 4 14 14 Total net credit continuing operations 1 3 4 3 21 24 Charge credit related to discontinued operations 5 5 10 21 12 9 Total net charge credit 4 2 6 24 9 33 The pre-exceptional defined benefit credit for continuing operations has been included in employee benefit expenses note 10.
The exceptional defined benefit credit of US$4 million 2008 09 US$14 million has been recognised in exceptional staff costs see note 7.
The actual return on plan assets was a gain of US$803 million 2008 09 loss of US$610 million.
The total amount recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the current financial year and cumulatively to 31 March 2010 is a loss of US$463 million 2008 09 loss of US$136 million and loss of US$559 million 2008 09 loss of US$96 million respectively.
In 2009 10, net actuarial losses amounting to US$460 million 2008 09 losses of US$833 million have been recognised directly in equity and are presented in the statement of comprehensive income.
Further, a loss of US$4 million 2008 09 gain of US$797 million was recognised in the statement of comprehensive income due to the change in asset ceilings.
In 2008 09, a US$4 million exchange gain on the Jamaica defined benefit pension asset ceiling amount was also recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income include exchange gains of US$1 million in 2009 10 2008 09 loss of US$104 million.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 109 Financial statements Changes in the present value of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical plan obligations are as follows: 2009 10 2008 09 CWSF Other Total CWSF Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Obligations at 1 April 2,453 428 2,881 3,479 422 3,901 Current service cost 12 12 24 14 9 23 Interest cost 177 33 210 204 35 239 Actuarial losses gains recognised in equity 941 104 1,045 171 23 194 Employee contributions 3 5 8 4 5 9 Obligations extinguished excluding obligations demerged 35 35 Obligations acquired 109 109 Settlement losses 18 18 Curtailment gains 2 3 5 4 21 25 Benefits paid 127 20 147 130 16 146 Exchange differences on translation 3 3 943 75 1,018 Obligations at 31 March excluding demerger 3,460 556 4,016 2,453 428 2,881 Amounts attributable to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business note 15 1,983 239 2,222 Obligations at 31 March 1,477 317 1,794 2,453 428 2,881 Changes in the fair value of defined benefit assets are as follows: 2009 10 2008 09 CWSF Other Total CWSF Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Fair value of assets as at 1 April 2,407 403 2,810 4,229 454 4,683 Expected return 182 36 218 239 47 286 Actuarial gains losses recognised in equity 521 64 585 946 81 1,027 Contributions by employer 75 20 95 35 14 49 Employee contributions 3 5 8 4 5 9 Assets divested excluding assets demerged 3 3 56 56 Assets acquired 111 111 Benefits paid 127 20 147 130 16 146 Exchange differences on translation 23 4 19 1,024 75 1,099 Fair value of assets as at 31 March excluding demerger 3,084 501 3,585 2,407 403 2,810 Amounts attributable to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business note 15 1,772 194 1,966 Fair value of assets as at 31 March 1,312 307 1,619 2,407 403 2,810 Experience gains on plan assets and liabilities at the end of the periods presented were as follows: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 CWSF Other CWSF Other CWSF Other US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Plan assets 1,312 307 2,407 403 4,229 454 Defined benefit and post-retirement medical plan obligations 1,477 317 2,453 428 3,479 422 Deficit surplus excluding the effects of the asset ceiling 165 10 46 25 750 32 Experience gains losses on plan assets 521 24 946 81 126 2 Experience losses gains on plan liabilities 27 4 35 2 28 16 110 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 33 Retirement benefits obligations continued 31 March 2007 31 March 2006 CWSF Other CWSF Other US$m US$m US$m US$m Plan assets 4,081 412 3,443 411 Defined benefit and post-retirement medical plan obligations 3,997 396 3,598 414 Surplus deficit excluding the effects of the asset ceiling 84 16 155 3 Experience gains on plan assets 60 9 370 Experience losses gains on plan liabilities 13 9 27 25 The best estimate of contributions to the defined benefit schemes for 2010 11 is: CWSF Other Total US$m US$m US$m Employer contributions 14 16 30 Employee contributions 5 5 Based on an employer contribution rate of 28.5% of pensionable earnings plus contributions due under the interim funding agreement and the estimated PPF levy payable in the year ended 31 March 2011.
The pension disclosures above include two post-retirement medical plans in Barbados.
An increase in the assumed medical cost trend of 1% pa would have no material effect on the aggregate of current service costs and interest costs and would increase the accumulated defined benefit obligation by US$9 million 1% decrease will reduce the accumulated defined benefit obligation by US$7 million.
34 Equity Equity attributable to the owners of the parent As discussed in note 2, during the period Cable & Wireless Communications Plc was interposed as the new parent entity of the Cable & Wireless Group now Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
This transaction has been accounted for using the principles of reverse acquisitions.
The main principles used in the presentation of equity for the Cable & Wireless Communications Group were as follows: The retained earnings and other equity balances of the Cable & Wireless Group now Cable & Wireless Communications Group were carried forward as the retained earnings and other equity balances of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group at the date of the Scheme of Arrangement, 19 March 2010.
The equity instruments of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc were initially recognised at their fair value on the date of the Scheme of Arrangement.
The movements in share capital prior to 19 March 2010 reflect the movements in the share capital of Cable and Wireless plc now Cable & Wireless Limited.
However, share capital for these prior year share issues has been restated using the nominal value of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc shares at 5 cents each in order to present the movements as though Cable & Wireless Communications Group had been in existence in its current form since 1 April 2008.
The difference arising on this restatement has been included in the share premium.
Any difference between the fair value of these instruments on the date of the Scheme of Arrangement and the historical cost of the instruments on issue in Cable and Wireless plc now Cable & Wireless Limited were recorded in retained earnings.
See note 8 of the Company accounts for information on the shares issued by Cable & Wireless Communications Plc since its incorporation.
Share capital Number of shares US$m 000 Issued, called-up and fully paid shares of 5 cents each At 1 April 2008 2,536,623 127 Allotted under share options schemes 4,186 Allotted under scrip dividends 30,657 2 At 31 March 2009 2,571,466 129 Allotted under share options schemes 11,210 Allotted under scrip dividends 41,896 2 At 31 March 2010 2,624,572 131 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 111 Financial statements The aggregate nominal value of the shares allotted in the year was US$2 million 2008 09 US$2 million.
No treasury shares of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc were cancelled during the periods presented.
On 10 March 2010, Cable and Wireless plc transferred 28,259,496 Treasury shares to the ESOP Trust.
In addition, on 24 June 2009, Cable and Wireless plc transferred 3,000,000 Treasury shares to the ESOP Trust.
12 million treasury shares were transferred to the ESOP trust on 13 February 2009.
The nominal value and market value of treasury shares held at 31 March 2010 excluding those held by the ESOP trust was US$nil 2008 09 US$12 million and US$nil 2008 09 US$67 million respectively.
The ESOP Trust has waived its right to dividends.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, each share other than those held in treasury entitles the holder to one vote at General Meetings of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc.
The Companys shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution but the payment cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
There are no restrictions on the repayment of capital other than those imposed by law.
For further information refer to pages 38 to 41 of the Directors report.
Allotments of ordinary shares of 5 cents each were made during the period as follows: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Gross Gross Number of consideration Number of consideration allotted shares received allotted shares received 000 US$000 000 US$000 Savings Related Share Option Scheme 929 814 1,730 2,201 Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme 118 187 1,274 1,358 Share Option Plan Approved 131 213 51 99 Share Option Plan Unapproved 10,032 17,331 1,131 2,132 1 Scrip dividends 41,896 30,657 Total 53,106 18,545 34,843 5,790 1 Shares with a cash equivalent value of US$87 million 2008 09 US$83 million were issued during the year as payment for dividends by scrip.
The Group defines capital as share capital, share premium, special reserve, other reserves including capital reserve, non-controlling interest transaction reserve, fair value reserve, foreign currency translation reserve and hedging reserve, non-controlling interest and retained earnings.
It does not have any externally imposed requirements for managing capital, other than those imposed by Company Law.
The Group manages its net assets in such a way as to optimise the weighted average cost of debt and equity taking into account: a the liquidity required in the light of the projected funding requirements of the Groups operating businesses with an appropriate level of contingency: b the level of financial strength required to maintain the Groups terms of trade taking account of its operational cash generation: c the relative post-tax cost of debt and equity: and d the extent to which external debt finance is, or is likely to be, available to the Group on acceptable terms.
This strategy is unchanged from the prior year as applied by the Cable & Wireless Group.
The Articles of Association of the Company permit borrowing up to three times the adjusted capital and reserves of the Group or US$3 billion.
The Group ensures that sufficient funds and distributable reserves are held to allow payments of projected dividends to shareholders.
This process is managed through the Groups budget and longer-term forecasting process.
Foreign currency translation and hedging reserve The foreign currency translation and hedging reserve contains exchange differences on the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency different to the presentation currency of the Group.
It also includes cumulative exchange differences arising on the translation of hedging instruments.
Capital and other reserves In 2009 10, other reserves included a capital redemption reserve of US$152 million 2008 09 US$152 million, a revaluation reserve of US$30 million 2008 09 US$nil, a fair value reserve of US$9 million 2008 09 US$7 million, a special reserve of US$2,137 million 2008 09 US$2,243 million and a capital reserve of US$1,931 million 2008 09 US$nil, less a reserve relating to transactions with non-controlling interests of US$4 million 2008 09 US$4 million.
The capital reserve may be released, in whole or in part, to distributable reserves of the Company at the discretion of and upon the resolution of the Board of Directors or a duly constituted committee of the Board of Directors.
The special reserve relates to the cancellation of the share premium account of Cable & Wireless Limited formerly Cable and Wireless plc in February 2004.
It will reduce from time to time by the amount of any increase in the paid-up share capital and share premium account of Cable & Wireless Limited after 20 February 2004 resulting from the issue of new shares for cash or other new consideration or upon a capitalisation of distributable reserves.
112 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 35 Share-based payments Subsequent to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, the majority of Cable & Wireless Communications participants outstanding Cable and Wireless plc share and option awards rolled over into Cable & Wireless Communications equivalent awards.
A limited number of participants retained their Cable and Wireless plc awards and had entitlement to one Cable & Wireless Communications Plc share and one Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc share in lieu of each Cable and Wireless plc share.
The quantity of shares under awards were converted in accordance with plan rules to adjust for the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business.
Option and share prices granted during the year are disclosed in Sterling reflecting the currency in which the ordinary shares of Cable and Wireless plc were quoted.
Outstanding shares of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc are shown in cents.
Share option schemes The Group does not currently have any outstanding share option awards over its own shares 2008 09 nil.
There are 14,130,773 outstanding share option awards relating to options granted by Cable and Wireless plc to senior employees 2008 09 31,833,674 outstanding options of which 25,708,841 related to Cable & Wireless Communications employees.
These options were originally issued over Cable and Wireless plc shares at exercise prices between 100-149 pence 12,789,356 options and 150-199 pence 1,341,417 options.
All options have vested in full.
Subsequent to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, these options have been redesignated as an option over a stapled unit of one share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and one share in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc an unrelated company.
The liability for these stapled unit options is classified as an Other payable and amounts to US$18 million.
Prior to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, 13,982,000 options were exercised at an average share price of 101 pence 2008 09 6,157 options at an average price of 89 pence.
Other equity instrument awards Performance shares Executive Directors and other senior executives can receive awards of performance shares at nil cost.
The vesting of performance shares is subject to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc absolute TSR performance conditions see performance conditions for share-based awards on pages 48 to 50.
A dividend award supplement operates on these awards.
Dividends that would have been paid on the performance shares which vest will be regarded as having been re-invested in additional shares.
Prior to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, performance share awards by Cable and Wireless plc were subject to relative TSR performance of Cable and Wireless plc or the Cable & Wireless Communications business.
Subsequent to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, performance share awards have been adjusted to be an award over Cable & Wireless Communications Plc ordinary shares of an equivalent value.
Restricted share plan Restricted shares are awarded to Executive Directors and selected employees, primarily as a retention or a recruitment tool.
Generally, restricted shares vest over periods of one to three years.
Prior to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, restricted share awards made to Cable & Wireless Communications employees were made in respect of shares in Cable and Wireless plc.
Subsequent to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, these awards have been adjusted to be an award over Cable & Wireless Communications Plc ordinary shares of an equivalent value.
Stock appreciation rights plan Stock appreciation rights are used to replicate exactly the types of awards described above, but rewards are delivered as a cash equivalent.
It is used in exceptional cases for countries in which tax or legal issues preclude the use of real shares or share options.
Cable & Wireless Communications Share purchase plan The Company also offers its employees, who are chargeable to income tax under Section 15 Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003, the Cable & Wireless Communications Share Purchase Plan which is a Revenue approved share incentive plan.
Under the Share Purchase Plan, employees can contribute up to a value of 1,500 or 10% of salary each tax year whichever is the lower, to buy partnership shares in the Company, and the Company will offer a match of one share for each partnership share purchased.
The Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP Trust The Cable & Wireless ESOP Trust is a discretionary trust, which was funded by loans from the Cable and Wireless plc to acquire shares in Cable and Wireless plc.
Subsequent to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, the shares held by the Cable & Wireless ESOP Trust were converted into one share of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and one share in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc for every share in Cable and Wireless plc held.
At 31 March 2010 the Trust held 43,010,495 shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and 43,010,495 shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc 2008 09 28,322,351 shares in Cable and Wireless plc with an aggregate cost of US$96 million 2008 09 US$85 million and a market value of US$94 million 2008 09 US$57 million.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 113 Financial statements Share awards The equity instruments granted during the period can be summarised as follows: Awards granted during 2009 10 and 2008 09 Awards of Cable and Wireless plc shares granted between Awards of Cable and Wireless plc shares 1 April 2009 and 19 March 2010 granted during 2008 09 Weighted Weighted average Features average Features fair value incorporated fair value incorporated Award Shares pence share in schemes Shares pence share in schemes Restricted shares 717,236 130 4,534,692 132 Stock appreciation rights 589,039 142 5,030,930 136 Share purchase plan scheme matching shares 1,801,989 140 1,386,389 156 TSR TSR Performance shares 17,596,285 71 conditions 1,187,295 71 conditions There were no share awards made between 19 March 2010 and 31 March 2010.
Only the performance share grants made during 2009 10 and 2008 09 have performance criteria attached.
A fair value exercise was completed at 31 March 2010 for grants made during 2009 10 using the Monte Carlo method.
The remaining awards had no performance conditions attached.
The Monte Carlo pricing model assumptions used in the pricing of the performance share grants in 2009 10 and 2008 09 were: 2009 10 2008 09 Weighted average share price pence per share 140 142 Dividend yield 6.2% 5.5% Expected volatility 33.2% 31.0% Risk-free interest rates 1.8% 3.0% Expected life in years 2.9 years 3 years The total expense for continuing and discontinued operations relating to share-based payments which are equity settled transactions was US$27 million 2008 09 US$23 million.
A summary of the outstanding share awards at 31 March 2010 are as follows: 31 March 2010 Weighted Weighted average Number of average remaining life shares fair value rounded to 1 Award outstanding cents share nearest year Restricted shares 4,696,130 74 1 Restricted shares TSR 5,550,000 57 1 Share purchase plan scheme matching shares 3,749,609 53 2 Performance shares 10,387,375 42 2 1 The fair value of share awards made in respect of shares in Cable and Wireless plc has been adjusted in line with the conversion of share awards into Cable & Wireless Communications Plc awards.
This adjustment was based on the proportion of value of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc to the combined value of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc and Cable & Wireless Communications Plc for the five trading days post-demerger.
114 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 36 Reconciliation of net funds Funds are defined as cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits.
Debt is defined as loans and bonds.
A reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds is as follows: 2009 10 2008 09 US$m US$m Increase decrease in cash during the year 41 343 Decrease in debt and lease financing 268 436 Cash outflow in net funds 227 779 Finance leases entered into during the year 27 21 Net borrowing costs capitalised 8 Net debt of businesses acquired 2 210 Demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business note 15 68 Exchange differences 62 23 Movement in net funds in the year 118 1,033 Net debt funds at 1 April 546 487 Net debt at 31 March 664 546 Analysis of changes in net funds: Demerger of Finance Net the Cable & leases entered borrowing Wireless At 1 April into during costs Worldwide Exchange At 31 March 2009 Cash flow the year capitalised Acquisitions business movements 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 257 102 27 13 141 Short-term deposits 533 143 261 17 432 Total net funds 790 41 288 30 573 Debt due within one year 130 54 17 2 37 58 Debt due after one year 1,206 322 10 8 319 32 1,179 Total debt 1,336 268 27 8 2 356 32 1,237 Total net debt funds 546 227 27 8 2 68 62 664 37 Commitments, guarantees and contingent liabilities Commitments The Group had capital commitments at the end of the financial year relating to the purchase of plant and equipment of US$34 million 2008 09 US$165 million.
No provision has been made for these commitments.
US$30 million 31 March 2009 US$29 million of these commitments relate to the Groups share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures.
Of the capital commitments at 31 March 2009, US$128 million related to discontinued operations.
In addition, the Group has a number of operating commitments arising in the ordinary course of the Groups business.
The most significant of these relate to network operating and maintenance costs.
In the event of default of another party, the Group may be liable to additional contributions under the terms of the agreements.
The Group leases land and buildings and networks under various lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalations, clauses and renewal rights.
The operating lease expenditure related to the year ended 31 March 2010 is disclosed in note 7.
The aggregate future minimum lease payments under operating leases are: 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 US$m US$m No later than one year 39 202 Later than one year but not later than five years 98 427 Later than five years 45 352 Total minimum operating lease payments 182 981 At 31 March 2009, US$802 million of these operating lease commitments related to discontinued operations.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 115 Financial statements Guarantees and contingent liabilities Guarantees at the end of the financial year for which no provision has been made in the financial statements are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 US$m US$m Trading guarantees 10 580 Other guarantees 606 141 Total guarantees 616 721 Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds for contracts concluded in the normal course of business, guaranteeing that the Group will meet its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions.
The nature of contracts includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of materials.
The guarantees contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under the contract.
Other guarantees include guarantees for financial obligations principally in respect of borrowings, property and other leases and letters of credit, and include guarantees in respect of the demerged business of Cable & Wireless Worldwide.
Total guarantees at 31 March 2010 include US$563 million of other guarantees 2008 09 US$670 million of trading and other guarantees relating to discontinued operations.
The Cable & Wireless Communications Group has provided guarantees to third parties in respect of trading contracts between third parties and the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group.
The Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group has agreed a fee schedule with Cable & Wireless Communications Group for the benefit of these guarantees.
To date, the Cable & Wireless Communications Group has not been required to make any payments in respect of its obligations under these trading guarantees.
In addition to the amounts included in the table above, the Group has guaranteed available credit facilities of US$600 million.
At 31 March 2010, none of these facilities had been drawn down.
Under the Separation Agreement, Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide agree to provide each other with certain customary indemnities on a reciprocal basis in respect of liabilities which the Cable & Wireless Communications Group may incur but which relate exclusively to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group and vice versa and in respect of an agreed proportion of liabilities which do not relate exclusively to one Group or the other.
Whilst Pender, the Groups former insurance operation, ceased to underwrite new business from April 2003, it has in the past written policies in favour of the Group and third parties.
Potentially significant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain of these third party policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and potential disputes with reinsurers.
Significant progress has been made in resolving these claims.
Detail of these insurance claims and potential claims are not disclosed as such disclosure may be prejudicial to the outcome of such claims.
In addition the Group, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, has given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number of disposals of subsidiary undertakings in prior years.
Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although some uncapped indemnities have been given.
The Group also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including facility sharing agreements.
Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps.
Whilst the Group has ceased participation in the Merchant Navy Officers Pension Fund, it may be liable for future contributions to fund a portion of any future funding deficits.
Currently, the amount of these potential liabilities cannot be quantified.
116 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 38 Business combinations and acquisitions of non-controlling interests Continuing operations Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Ltd Dhiraagu On 21 October 2009, the Group purchased a further 7% of the share capital of Dhiraagu from the Maldives government for cash consideration of US$40 million.
The goodwill recognised on acquisition was US$25 million and the net cash inflow on acquisition was US$36 million.
The Directors have made an assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities at the acquisition date.
The fair values were as follows: Fair value at Fair value 31 March Book value adjustments 2010 US$m US$m US$m Property, plant and equipment 151 151 Customer contracts and relationships 51 51 Trade marks and other intangibles 18 18 Trade and other receivables 19 19 Inventories 3 3 Cash and cash equivalents 76 76 Trade and other payables 91 91 Total 158 69 227 From the date of its acquisition on 21 October 2009, Dhiraagu contributed US$69 million to Group revenue and US$28 million to Group profit.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2009, the contribution to Group revenue for 2009 10 would have been US$148 million and the contribution to Group profit for 2009 10 would have been US$61 million.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of Dhiraagu included the value of expected synergies resulting from the integration into the existing business, and the value of the workforce and other intangible assets that did not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets as they were unable to be separately identified.
Connecteo Group In January 2008, the Group purchased a 49% stake in the Connecteo Group for cash consideration of US$14 million and gained management control of the holding company.
The Connecteo Group provides satellite, data and internet services in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Guinea, Niger and Senegal.
On acquisition, the Directors performed a preliminary assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired as property, plant and equipment US$4 million and net working capital liabilities US$2 million.
The excess of consideration over the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities was allocated to goodwill.
In 2008 09, subsequent to this preliminary valuation of goodwill and intangibles, an exercise was conducted to identify and value any further intangibles at the date of acquisition.
This resulted in the recognition of an additional US$2 million of licence intangible assets and a corresponding reduction in goodwill.
In January 2009, the Group paid US$7 million for a further 16% interest in the Connecteo Group.
During 2008 09, the Connecteo Group increased its effective interest in its subsidiaries.
This transaction resulted in a decrease of US$2 million of non-controlling interests and a US$2 million increase in other reserves.
Monaco Telecom Goodwill in connection with the Groups investment in Monaco Telecom SAM decreased by US$17 million during the year 2008 09 US$46 million decrease.
The goodwill balance decreased as a result of the payment of dividends to the non-controlling interest the Principality of Monaco, exchange movements and changes in the fair value of the put option.
As part of the acquisition of Monaco Telecom a put option was issued see note 29.
Changes in the fair value of this put option are treated as contingent consideration and adjusted against goodwill.
Cash dividends paid to the Principality of Monaco reflected an increase in the Cable & Wireless Communications Groups investment in Monaco Telecom and therefore an increase to goodwill.
The goodwill balance also changed as a result of exchange movements.
2009 10 2008 09 US$m US$m At 1 April 170 216 Decrease as a result of changes in the fair value of put option 29 12 Dividends paid to the Principality 12 19 Decreases due to exchange movements 53 At 31 March 153 170 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 117 Financial statements Discontinued operations THUS On 1 October 2008, Cable & Wireless obtained control of THUS Group Plc THUS for a total consideration of US$603 million.
The consideration comprised US$591 million to acquire the entire share capital of THUS and US$12 million of direct costs.
The acquisition is summarised as follows: Provisional Final amounts at amounts at 31 March 30 September 2009 2009 US$m US$m Consideration paid 603 603 Goodwill arising on acquisition 600 627 Fair value of net assets acquired 3 24 Cash outflows on acquisition 603 603 Less: cash acquired 23 23 Net cash outflow on acquisition 580 580 In 2008 09, from the date of its acquisition on 1 October 2008, THUS contributed US$417 million to Group revenue and a loss of US$30 million to Group profit.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2008 the contribution to Group revenue for 2008 09 now recorded in discontinued operations would have been US$911 million and the contribution to Group profit for 2008 09 would have been a loss of US$60 million.
The Directors made a provisional assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities at 31 March 2009.
This assessment was updated at 30 September 2009 to adjust for new information regarding the previously assessed balances.
The fair values, both provisional and final, were as follows: Provisional Adjusted fair Alignment of fair value at value at accounting Fair value 31 March Exchange 30 September Book value policy adjustments 2009 Adjustments differences 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Property, plant and equipment 496 141 355 34 321 Purchased goodwill 88 88 Customer contracts and relationships 26 26 2 24 Trade marks and other intangibles 14 5 9 1 8 Trade and other receivables 228 9 51 186 6 18 162 Inventories 12 12 Deferred tax 98 98 Defined benefit pension scheme 7 7 Cash and cash equivalents 23 23 2 21 Available-for-sale financial assets 18 18 2 16 Trade and other payables 195 113 49 357 10 35 332 Loans and other borrowings 199 199 19 180 Provisions 58 58 11 5 64 Total 590 267 320 3 27 24 The acquirees carrying amounts were previously recorded in accordance with IFRS.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of THUS included the value of expected synergies resulting from the integration into the existing Worldwide business, and the value of the workforce and other intangible assets that did not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets as they were unable to be separately identified.
Apollo On 1 April 2008 the Group gained full management control of Apollo Cable Submarine Systems Limited Apollo which was previously accounted for as a joint venture.
Goodwill arising on this business combination amounted to US$16 million.
The net liabilities acquired were US$16 million including US$7 million of cash and cash equivalents.
In 2008 09, Apollo contributed US$12 million to revenue and US$nil to profit after tax.
On 13 November 2008, the Group increased its effective interest in Apollo from 55% to 60% for consideration of US$nil.
This transaction resulted in US$nil of minority interest transferred to retained earnings and a US$nil increase in other reserves.
118 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 39 Related party transactions Transactions with joint ventures All trade transactions with joint ventures arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of the Groups products and services, network and access charges.
There were no material trade transactions with joint ventures during the year.
The Group received dividends of US$52 million from joint ventures 2008 09 US$30 million during the year ended 31 March 2010.
This includes dividends from Dhiraagu our Maldives joint venture until it became a subsidiary on 21 October 2010 see notes 21 and 38.
At 31 March 2010, joint ventures owed US$4 million 31 March 2009 US$4 million in respect of trading balances.
Transactions with the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group post-demerger On 26 March 2010, the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business was demerged from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
The results of this business until 26 March 2010 have been classified as discontinued operations and are summarised in note 15.
At 31 March 2010, balances outstanding with the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group were as follows: 31 March 2010 US$m Trade receivables from Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group companies 3 Other payables to Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group companies 117 Obligation to transfer Cable & Wireless Worldwide shares 30 Total 144 Other payables relates to an amount of US$117 million that will be paid to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group on 1 April 2010 to settle the Cable & Wireless Worldwide portion of the 2009 10 final dividend of the former Cable & Wireless Group.
In accordance with the demerger terms, Cable & Wireless Communications Group has agreed to transfer 22 million shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc held by the Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Trust to similar trust for the benefit of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group.
This obligation is included in financial liabilities at fair value see note 29.
On demerger, the Cable & Wireless brand was transferred to a joint venture entity owned by and for the continuing use of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group and the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group see note 40.
Transactions with key management personnel During 2008 09, two Directors of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc purchased unsecured bonds issued by Cable & Wireless Limited formerly Cable and Wireless plc and Cable & Wireless International Finance B. V. These bonds were purchased for US$4,169,670 2,371,691 on the open market including US$209,179 118,980 of accrued interest and had a nominal value at 31 March 2010 of US$3,914,492 2,630,000 31 March 2009 US$3,812,974 2,630,000.
The interest earned on those bonds during 2009 10 was US$364,082 of which US$143,247 remained unpaid at 31 March 2010 2008 09 US$109,184 of which US$79,163 remained unpaid at 31 March 2009.
During 2008 09, the spouse of a Director of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc purchased unsecured bonds issued by Cable & Wireless International Finance B. V. These bonds were purchased for US$768,602 437,178 on the open market including US$67,124 38,180 of accrued interest and had a nominal value at 31 March 2010 of US$714,432 480,000 31 March 2009 US$695,904 480,000.
The interest earned on those bonds during 2009 10 was US$65,843 of which US$1,013 remained unpaid at 31 March 2010 2008 09 US$7,778 of which US$987 remained unpaid at 31 March 2009.
During 2009 10, interest was earned by the spouse of a Director of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc on unsecured bonds issued by Cable & Wireless Limited formerly Cable and Wireless plc, purchased prior to their appointment as a Director.
These bonds had a nominal value at 31 March 2010 of US$14,884 10,000.
The interest earned on those bonds since the Director was appointed was US$1,045 of which US$846 remained unpaid at 31 March 2010.
There were no other material transactions with key management personnel except for those relating to remuneration see notes 10 and 35 and shareholdings.
Transactions with other related parties There are no controlling shareholders of the Company.
There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Company.
Other than the parties disclosed above, the Group has no other material related parties.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 119 Financial statements 40 Licences and operating agreements In all countries in which it operates, the Group holds licences to operate or operating agreements.
These licences and operating agreements take a variety of forms and their terms, rights and obligations vary significantly.
The Group assumes that it will renew these licences and operating agreements as they expire.
Previous history indicates this is the most likely outcome.
During 2009 10, the Seychelles licence was renewed until 2024.
No material changes were made to the terms of the licence, though it remains subject to review once amendments to the local broadcasting and telecommunications legislation are finalised.
In 2008 09, the licence held by Dhiraagu was extended until 2023 and the Group agreed an extension to its operating agreement in Macau to 2016, with an automatic extension until 2021.
Whilst the operating agreements between Monaco Telecom and the Principality of Monaco are not due to expire until 2023 they are currently undergoing consolidation into a single operating agreement.
The Group does not anticipate that the consolidation will materially affect the terms under which Monaco Telecom operates its business.
The Group does not have any concession agreements with Governments that fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements.
On demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business, the Cable & Wireless brand was transferred to a joint venture entity owned by and for the continuing use of the Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide Groups.
As part of this transfer, Cable & Wireless Communications received a royalty free licence, granting rights to use the Cable & Wireless brand in all of the Groups jurisdictions with the exception of Macau and North and West Africa which are branded differently.
Further, the Group retains a licence to use the Cable & Wireless logo globally.
There were no other significant changes to the terms of the licences held by the Groups subsidiaries or operating agreements with Governments during the periods presented.
41 Legal proceedings In the ordinary course of business, the Group is involved in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and reviews.
The facts and circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated in determining whether it is more likely than not that there will be a future outflow of funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a specific case is necessary or sufficient.
Accordingly, significant management judgement relating to provisions and contingent liabilities is required since the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict.
The Group does not expect the ultimate resolution of the actions to which it is a party to have a significant adverse impact on the financial position of the Group.
In July 2007, Cable and Wireless plc and four Cable & Wireless Communications Group subsidiaries along with Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Limited TSTT, in which the Cable & Wireless Communications Group holds a 49% interest, were served with proceedings in the English High Court by a Caribbean competitor, Digicel.
The claim alleged that the relevant Cable & Wireless Communications Group subsidiaries delayed Digicels entry into six Caribbean markets St. Lucia, St. Vincent & the Grenadines, Grenada, Barbados, the Cayman Islands and Turks & Caicos in breach of applicable statutory and contractual obligations concerning interconnection.
A similar allegation was made against TSTT.
In addition, it was alleged that Cable and Wireless plc and its four subsidiaries but not TSTT conspired to cause delay to Digicel.
Trial in the English High Court began in May 2009 and closed in November 2009.
On 15 April 2010, the UK High Court dismissed all of the claims in the seven markets and the overarching conspiracy claim with the exception of a minor breach of a short letter agreement with Digicel in Turks & Caicos.
The Court ruled that this breach caused no delay to Digicel and thus no loss.
The Court has ordered Digicel to pay Cable & Wireless Communications costs incurred in defending the claim on an enhanced indemnity basis: and to pay 87.5% of TSTTs costs assessed on a standard basis.
120 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 42 Subsidiaries and joint ventures The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the financial statements.
Issued share Ownership Local capital percentage Class of Country of Area of currency million % shares incorporation operation Continuing operations Subsidiaries Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd J$ 16,817 82 Ordinary Jamaica Jamaica 1 Cable & Wireless Panama, SA Balboa 316 49 Ordinary Panama Panama 2 Companhia fide Telecomunicacoes fide Macau, SARL Pataca 150 51 Ordinary Macau Macau and China Cable & Wireless Barbados Ltd B$ 72 81 Ordinary Barbados Barbados Cable and Wireless West Indies Ltd GBP 5 100 Ordinary England Caribbean 2,3 Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Ltd Rufiyaa 190 52 Ordinary Maldives Maldives 4,5 Monaco Telecom SAM Euro 2 49 Ordinary Monaco Monaco 6 Cable & Wireless Limited GBP 656 100 Ordinary England England Sable International Finance Limited GBP 100 Ordinary Cayman England Cable & Wireless International Finance BV GBP 1 100 Ordinary Netherlands England Joint ventures Cable & Wireless Trademark Management Ltd GBP 50 Ordinary England N A 4 T elecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Ltd T$ 283 49 Ordinary Trinidad Trinidad and and Tobago Tobago 1 The Cable & Wireless Communications Group regards this company as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders agreement.
2 This company has a financial year end of 31 December due to the requirements of the shareholders agreement.
3 From October 2009, this entity is a subsidiary formerly a joint venture.
4 This company is audited by a firm other than KPMG and its international member firms.
5 The Cable & Wireless Communications Group holds an economic interest of 55% in Monaco Telecom SAM via a contractual arrangement.
6 Formerly Cable and Wireless plc.
On 18 June 2004 the Group acquired 55% of Monaco Telecom, a Monaco based telecommunications service provider, from Vivendi Universal.
Simultaneously with the acquisition, Cable & Wireless Communications transferred legal ownership of 6% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to an unrelated third party.
The Group contractually retained voting and economic rights in the shares as part of the arrangement.
In addition, the 6% interest is subject to certain put and call options that, together with the retained voting and economic rights, provide full management control of Monaco Telecom to the Group.
The Group has also entered into a shareholders agreement with the Principality of Monaco, which contains, among other provisions, a prohibition on either the Group or the Principality subject to certain limited exceptions selling their shares in Monaco Telecom for five years, mutual pre-emption rights on transfer of shares and certain other limited rights in favour of the Principality.
The Principality has a put option entitling it to put its 45% shareholding in Monaco Telecom to the Group at certain times after 1 January 2008.
The exercise price under the put option is fair market value, taking into account the nature of the minority stake in Monaco Telecom.
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and trade investments will be attached to the Companys Annual Return, to be filed with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
43 Financial risk management Treasury policy The Cable & Wireless Communications Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
Day to day management of treasury activities is delegated to Treasury, within specified financial limits for each type of transaction and counterparty.
To the extent that subsidiaries undertake treasury transactions, these are governed by Group policies and delegated authorities.
Material subsidiary positions are monitored by Treasury.
Where appropriate, transactions are reported to the Board.
All subsidiaries are required to report details of their cash and debt positions to Treasury on a monthly basis.
The key responsibilities of Treasury include funding, investment of surplus cash and the management of interest rate and foreign currency risk.
The majority of the Groups cash resources and borrowings are managed centrally by Treasury.
The Cable & Wireless Communications Group may use derivatives including forward foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and options, where appropriate, in the management of its foreign currency and interest rate exposures.
The use of these instruments is in accordance with strategies agreed from time to time by Treasury and subject to policies approved by the Cable & Wireless Communications Group Board.
Derivatives are not used for trading or speculative purposes and derivative transactions and positions are monitored and reported by Treasury on a regular basis and are subject to policies adopted by the Board.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 121 Financial statements Exchange rate risk When the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business was part of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group, the Cable & Wireless Communications Groups transactions were reported in Sterling and all nonSterling cash flows were subject to foreign exchange risk.
As a result, at 31 March 2009, the Cable & Wireless Communications Group had in place forward exchange contracts to sell US$225 million.
The Cable & Wireless Communications Group did not apply hedge accounting to these contracts and as such they were revalued to fair value through the income statement.
During 2008 09, the US dollar strengthened significantly, outside the Groups planning range and below its recent historical trading range.
As a result, the Group increased its forward cover compared with prior periods to lock in the Sterling proceeds from US dollar repatriation and the draw down of a new $415 million bank facility.
As the US dollar continued to strengthen, this resulted in exceptional losses of US$98 million as the contracts were exercised during 2008 09 or marked to market at 31 March 2009.
In 2009 10, movements in the fair value of open contracts relating to repatriation from the prior year resulted in an exceptional finance gain of US$19 million.
From demerger, the Group is reporting in US dollars, as this is the predominant transaction currency of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
The Group trades in many countries and a proportion of its revenue is generated in currencies other than US dollars, notably the Euro, Sterling and Jamaican dollar.
The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates in relation to non-US dollar currency payments, dividend income from foreign currency subsidiaries, reported profits of foreign currency subsidiaries and the net asset carrying value of non-US dollar investments.
Exchange risk is managed centrally by the Central operations on a matching cash flow basis including forecast foreign currency cash repatriation inflows from subsidiaries and forecast foreign currency payments.
Where appropriate the Cable & Wireless Communications Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis and uses forward foreign exchange contracts and other derivative and financial instruments to reduce the exposures created where currencies do not naturally offset in the short term.
The Group will undertake hedges to minimise the exposure to individual transactions that create significant foreign exchange exposures for the Group where appropriate.
Where cost-effective and possible, foreign subsidiaries are financed in their domestic currency to minimise the impact of translation of foreign currency denominated borrowings.
As part of the overall policy of managing the exposure arising from foreign exchange movements relating to the net carrying value of overseas investments, the Group may, from time to time, elect to match certain foreign currency liabilities against the carrying value of foreign investments.
The carrying amounts of the Groups cash and cash equivalents, financial assets at fair value through the income statement, available-forsale financial assets and borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Financial Financial assets Loans assets Loans US$m US$m US$m US$m Sterling 408 552 657 676 US dollar and currencies linked to the US dollar 164 685 132 625 Euro 16 32 Other currencies 79 24 4 667 1,237 845 1,305 Interest rate risk The Cable & Wireless Communications Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on its surplus cash balances and variable rate loans although there is a degree of offset between the two.
Treasury may seek to reduce volatility by fixing a proportion of this interest rate exposure whilst taking account of prevailing market conditions as appropriate.
There were no interest rate derivatives in place as at 31 March 2010.
At 31 March 2010 86% of the Groups loans were at a fixed rate.
A reduction in interest rates would have an unfavourable impact upon the fair value of the Groups fixed rate loans.
However, no debt is held for trading purposes and it is intended that it will be kept in place until maturity.
As a result, there is no exposure to fair value loss on fixed rate borrowings and, as such, its effect has not been modelled.
A one percentage point increase in interest rates will have a US$6 million impact on the income received from the surplus cash balances of the Group and a US$2 million impact on the floating rate loans of the Group.
The impact on equity is limited to the impact on the income statement.
Credit risk Cash deposits and similar financial instruments give rise to credit risk, which represents the loss that would be recognised if a counterparty failed to perform as contracted.
Management seeks to reduce this risk by ensuring the counterparties to all but a small proportion of the Groups financial instruments are the core relationship banks, which are rated A1 short-term and or AA-long-term or better by Standard & Poors or equivalent by Moodys and or Fitch.
The credit rating of these counterparties is monitored on a continuing basis.
The types of instrument used for investment of funds are prescribed in Cable & Wireless Communications Group Treasury policies approved by the Board.
These policies contain limits on exposure for the Group as a whole to any one counterparty of approximately US$100 million.
Credit risk on receivables is discussed in note 23.
122 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 43 Financial risk management continued Liquidity risk At 31 March 2010, the Cable & Wireless Communications Group had cash and cash equivalents of US$573 million.
These amounts are highly liquid and are a significant component of the Groups overall liquidity and capital resources.
An analysis of the maturity of the Groups receivables and loans is contained in notes 23 and 28.
Liquidity forecasts are produced on a regular basis to ensure the utilisation of current facilities is optimised, to ensure covenant compliance and that medium-term liquidity is maintained and for the purpose of identifying long-term strategic funding requirements.
The Directors also regularly assess the balance of capital and debt funding of the Group.
Approximately 76% of the Groups cash is invested in short-term bank deposits.
Certain foreign subsidiaries operate in jurisdictions which may restrict the ability to repatriate cash to the Group from time to time.
Where restrictions are severe, local cash balances are excluded from cash and cash equivalents.
44 Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP items 2009 10 2008 09 US$m US$m Total operating profit 468 534 Depreciation and amortisation 348 294 LTIP charge 1 Net other operating income expense 3 3 Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 30 60 Exceptional items 82 100 EBITDA 866 871
