108 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report notes to the Company fInanCIal statements for the period 24 September 2009 to 31 March 2010 1 Statement of accounting policies Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc the Company formerly Cable & Wireless Worldwide Limited, formerly Project Swan No.
1 Limited was incorporated on 24 September 2009.
1.1 Basis of preparation The Companys financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards applicable under generally accepted accounting principles in the United Kingdom and the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
They have been prepared on the historical cost basis where appropriate.
These financial statements set out the position of the Company and not the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group the Group which it heads.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
Under FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, the Company is exempt from the requirement to provide its own financial instruments disclosures on the grounds that they are included in publicly available consolidated financial statements which include disclosures that comply with the IFRS equivalent standard.
1.2 Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
FRS 18 Accounting Policies requires that a description of the impact of any change in estimation techniques should be provided where the change has a material impact on the reported results for the period.
1.3 Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are included in the balance sheet at historical cost less any impairments recognised.
Impairment reviews are carried out whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the subsidiary may not be fully recoverable.
Impairments are determined by comparing the carrying value of the subsidiary to its recoverable amount, being the higher of the subsidiarys fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Fair value represents market value in an active market.
Value in use is determined by discounting future cash flows arising from the subsidiary with reference to the Groups own projections using pretax discount rates which represent the estimated weighted average cost of capital for the Company.
Impairments are recognised in the profit and loss.
1.4 Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities The Company classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the profit and loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets are held.
The Company currently does not classify any financial assets as held-to-maturity investments, availablefor-sale or fair value through the profit and loss.
The basis of determining fair values is set out in note 1.5.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition in accordance with FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair value through the profit and loss.
Debtors Debtors are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable receipts that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Company provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the debtor.
They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than one year after the balance sheet date these are classified as non-current assets.
Debtors are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is determined using the effective interest method less allowance for impairment.
An allowance for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the allowance is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The amount of the allowance is recognised in the profit and loss.
Recognition and measurement Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Company has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
The Company assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 109 Loans Loans are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in profit and loss over the period of the loans using the effective interest method.
Loans are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting date.
Convertible bonds issued by the Company are initially recognised at fair value.
These bonds are separated into a liability and equity component.
The liability component is recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The equity component represents the residual of the fair value of the bond less the liability component.
The liability component is subsequently measured on an amortised cost basis.
1.5 Fair value estimation The nominal value less estimated impairments of receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Company for similar financial instruments.
Discounted cash flows are used to determine the fair value for the majority of remaining financial instruments.
1.6 Tax The charge for tax is based on the result for the period and takes into account tax deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
Deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable to the extent that on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Except where otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision without discounting is made for all timing differences that have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
1.7 Dividends Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier of their approval by the Companys shareholders or their payment.
1.8 Pensions Costs in respect of the Companys contributions to the Group defined contribution pension scheme are charged to the profit and loss on an accruals basis as contributions become payable.
2 Companys profit and loss account The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and has not presented its own profit and loss account.
The profit for the period from incorporation to 31 March 2010 of the Company amounted to nil million.
3 Remuneration of Directors Information covering Directors remuneration, interests in shares, share options and pension benefits is set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 44 to 55.
Demerger At a General Meeting on 25 February 2010, the shareholders of Cable and Wireless plc approved the demerger of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide business.
On 26 March 2010 the demerger date, the Cable&Wireless Worldwide business was transferred to an unrelated company, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, in exchange for the entire share capital of that company.
As a result of the demerger, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc became the ultimate parent company of Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group subsidiaries.
Trading of shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc on the London Stock Exchange commenced on 26 March 2010.
Refer to note 4 of the consolidated financial statements for further information.
110 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the company financial statements for the period 24 September 2009 to 31 March 2010 5 Staff numbers and costs The average monthly number of persons employed by the Company including Directors during the period since incorporation was: 24 September 2009 - 31 March 2010 Average number of persons employed by the Company 3 Directors were not paid for their services to the Company until 26 March 2010.
For the five day period, the Directors employment costs were nil million.
Refer to page 51 of the Directors remuneration report for further information.
6 Fixed asset investments Subsidiary undertakings m Cost At 24 September 2009 Additions 2,673 At 31 March 2010 2,673 Loans At 24 September 2009 Additions 234 At 31 March 2010 234 Net book value At 31 March 2010 2,907 7 Debtors 31 March 2010 m Amounts falling due within one year Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 1 Total debtors 1 There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of debtors at 31 March 2010.
8 Creditors 31 March 2010 m Amounts falling due within one year Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 19 Accruals and deferred income 5 Total creditors 24 There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of creditors at 31 March 2010.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 111 9 Loans 31 March 2010 m Convertible bonds 204 Total non-current loans 204 The convertible bonds due in 2014 of 230 million were issued by Cable and Wireless plc on 24 November 2009 and transferred to the Company on the date of demerger.
These bonds were separated into loans and equity of the Group as 208 million of loans and 22 million of equity.
Directly attributable transaction costs of 4 million were capitalised against the loan component as part of this transaction.
Further details can be found in note 24 of the consolidated financial statements.
10 Called-up share capital and reserves The Company was incorporated on 24 September 2009.
On incorporation, the Companys authorised share capital was 1 consisting of one ordinary share of 1.
On 25 January 2010, the Company issued one ordinary share of 1 and two redeemable preference shares of 25,000 each.
The ordinary share was issued to the subscribers to the memorandum of association and paid up in full in cash.
The preference shares were allotted for cash and remained unpaid by virtue of the holder giving an undertaking to pay up each share to such amount pursuant to sections 583 2 and 583 3 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
On the same date, the existing ordinary shares of 2 were subdivided into 40 ordinary shares of 5 pence each.
On 26 March 2010, the Company issued 2,624,571,984 ordinary shares of 5 pence each at a premium of 97 pence per share, less issue costs of 14 million, to the public shareholders of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc in return for the receipt of the entire share capital of Cable & Wireless UK Holdings Limited.
On 29 March 2010, the share premium relating to the ordinary shares was reduced by 2,471 million by way of a court-approved capital reduction scheme in accordance with section 641 of the Act.
This had the effect of creating a capital reserve of 2,471 million, which may be released, in whole or in part, to distributable reserves of the Company at the discretion and upon the resolution of the Board of Directors or a duly constituted committee of the Board of Directors.
On 25 May 2010, a duly constituted committee of the Board of Directors approved the release of 85 million, being an amount sufficient to allow payment of the proposed dividend.
On 31 March 2010, the preference shares were redeemed pursuant to Article 8 of the Articles.
Allotted, called-up and fully paid 31 March 2010 m 2,624,572,024 ordinary shares of 5 pence each 131 Capital Profit Share Share and other and loss capital premium reserves account Total m m m m m At incorporation on 24 September 2009 Share capital issued on acquisition of Cable&Wireless Worldwide business 131 2,527 2,658 Profit for the period Reduction of capital 2,471 2,471 Equity component of convertible bonds 22 22 At 31 March 2010 131 56 2,493 2,680 112 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the company financial statements for the period 24 September 2009 to 31 March 2010 11 Related party transactions Under FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures, the Company is exempt from the requirement to disclose transactions with entities that are wholly owned.
Transactions with the Cable & Wireless Communications Group post-demerger All transactions entered into are done so at arms length and on commercial terms.
Transactions with key management personnel There were no material transactions with key management personnel except for those relating to remuneration see notes 9 and 31 of the consolidated financial statements and shareholdings.
Transactions with other related parties There are no controlling shareholders of the Company.
There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Company.
12 Subsidiaries and joint ventures The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affects the figures shown in the financial statements.
Ownership Local percentage Class of Country of Nature of currency % shares incorporation business Subsidiaries Cable & Wireless U. K. GBP 100 Ordinary England Telecommunications Cable & Wireless UK Holdings Limited GBP 100 Ordinary England Holding company Cable & Wireless Europe Holdings Limited GBP 100 Ordinary England Holding company THUS Limited GBP 100 Ordinary England Telecommunications Cable & Wireless Global Network Limited GBP 100 Ordinary Ireland Telecommunications Joint ventures Cable & Wireless Trade Mark Management Limited GBP 50 Ordinary England Brand management Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and trade investments will be attached to the Companys Annual Return, to be filed with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
13 Dividends Refer to note 14 in the consolidated financial statements.
14 Commitments The Company had no capital commitments at 31 March 2010.
15 Guarantees and contingent liabilities The Company had provided trading guarantees of 125 million at 31 March 2010.
Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds for contracts concluded in the normal course of business, guaranteeing that the Group companies will meet their obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions.
The nature of contracts includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of materials.
The guarantees contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under the contract.
In addition the Company has, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number of disposals of subsidiary undertakings in prior years.
Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although some uncapped indemnities have been given.
The Company also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including facility sharing agreements and general commercial agreements.
Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 113 extraCts from the Cable & WIreless WorldWIde plC prospeCtus unaudIted The following information was included in the Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc prospectus issued on 2 February 2010, and is repeated here in accordance with Listing Rule 9.2.
This information has been extracted without amendment from pages 70 and 143 to 144 of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc prospectus.
For a full understanding, it should only be read in conjunction with that document.
This prospectus can be obtained from the Company Secretary or from www.
Capitalisation and indebtedness The following table sets out the unaudited capitalisation and indebtedness of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
The financial information in this table as at 30 November 2009 has been extracted without material adjustment from the unaudited accounting records of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
As at 30 November 2009 m Current debt Loans guaranteed 6 Finance leases secured 11 Total current debt 17 Non-current debt Loans guaranteed 1 Loans secured 97 Finance leases secured 15 Total non-current debt 113 Total debt 130 Analysis of debt Total secured 123 Total guaranteed 7 130 Liquidity Cash and cash equivalents 109 Total 109 Current debt 17 Net current cash 92 Non-current debt 113 Net debt 21 As at 31 December 2009, the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group had cash and cash equivalents of 91 million, debt of 116 million of which 81 million was drawn down under its bank facilities and undrawn facilities of 126 million.
114 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Profit forecast for the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group for the year ended 31 March 2010 On 5 November 2009, Cable and Wireless plc published its Interim Results for the six months ended 30 September 2009.
The Interim results contained the following statements in respect of the Cable & Wireless Group: With EBITDA growth of 44% in the first half, the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group business is performing well as we continue to increase margin from our strategic product set and reduce costs in the face of a global recession which has led to lower traditional voice revenue and less discretionary project work.
We continue to expect that the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group 2009 10 EBITDA will be approximately 430 million.
We have reclassified 20 million of cost to achieve the THUS Group synergies from exceptionals to capital expenditure, reflecting a change in how the costs are expected to arise.
We have reduced our expected Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group P&L exceptional costs for 2009 10 by 15 million to 55 million, reflecting the reclassification of THUS Group costs to achieve, partially offset by bringing forward 5 million of exceptional restructuring costs from 2010 11.
Overall, the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Groups cash guidance remains unchanged.
Accordingly, on the basis of preparation, and based on the principal assumptions set out below, the Directors forecast that for the year ending 31 March 2010, the post-exceptional EBITDA as defined below of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group will be approximately 375 million.
The statements above regarding post-exceptional EBITDA in 2009 10 represent a profit forecast under the Prospectus Rules.
The Directors have considered the above statement and continue to believe that it is valid based on the assumptions below.
The Directors do not expect the full year tax profile for the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group to be materially different from that set out in the income statement for the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group for the six months ended 30 September 2009.
Basis of preparation The Directors confirm that the profit forecast described in the section entitled Profit forecast for the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group for the year ended 31 March 2010 the Profit Forecast, has been properly compiled on the basis of the assumptions stated below and using accounting policies which are in accordance with IFRS, as adopted in the EU, and is consistent with those adopted by the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group in the preparation of the accounts.
The Profit Forecast is based upon the audited consolidated results for the six months ended 30 September 2009, the results shown by unaudited management accounts for the three months ended 31 December 2009 and the Directors forecast of the results for the three month period ending 31 March 2010.
Post-exceptional EBITDA represents earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, LTIP credit charge and net other operating income expense.
The Profit Forecast does not include any costs related to the demerger.
The Profit Forecast is stated on the basis of the EBITDA after exceptional items rather than profit before tax due to the extent of existing guidance which has been provided to the market by Cable and Wireless plc on both EBITDA and exceptional items.
Guidance on the EBITDA performance of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group has been provided for a number of years as it represents the measure on which management consistently assess the performance of the business and it is also the measure on which both shareholders and analysts attach greatest significance.
During the course of 2009, Cable and Wireless plc also provided guidance on the level of exceptional items in the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
Accordingly, the Directors consider EBITDA after exceptional items to be the most appropriate basis to present the Profit Forecast.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 115 Principal assumptions The Profit Forecast has been prepared on the basis of the following principal assumptions: Assumptions within the control or influence of the Directors There will be no material acquisitions and disposals during the financial year ending 31 March 2010 other than those already reported.
Assumptions outside the control or influence of the Directors The main assumptions outside the control of the Directors are: there will be no material changes to the general trading and economic conditions in each of the markets or jurisdictions in which the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group operates from that which is currently prevailing and or anticipated by the Directors, which would cause a material change in levels of demand: there will be no material litigation or customer dispute that may arise in the period other than those that are currently prevailing and or anticipated by the Directors: there will be no change to legislation or regulatory environments in the jurisdictions in which the business operates that would materially impact on the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Groups operations, or its accounting policies: there will be no major disruption to the business of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group, its suppliers or customers due to natural disaster, terrorism, extreme weather conditions, industrial disruption, civil disturbance or government action: there will be no material changes in interest, inflation or exchange rates: there will be no material change in the present management or control of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group or its existing operational strategy: and the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group will continue to enjoy the goodwill and confidence of present and potential customers, and of its strategic partners.
