56 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report GOVERNANCE STATEmENT OF DIRECTORS RESpONSIBIlITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the A copy of the financial statements of the Company is Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report posted on the Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc website and the financial statements Group and Company www.
The Directors are responsible for the in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the website.
Information published English company law requires the Directors to prepare on the Companys website is accessible in many countries financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements governing the preparation and dissemination of financial in accordance with International Financial Reporting statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable law.
Further, they have elected to prepare Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and the Company financial statements in accordance with UK Transparency Rules accounting standards and applicable law UK GAAP.
The Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed financial statements are required by law to give a true and on pages 32 to 33, confirm that, to the best of each persons fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of knowledge and belief: the Group and the Company and of the Groups income n The financial statements, prepared in accordance with statement for that period.
IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of required to: the Group: n The financial statements, prepared in accordance with n Select suitable accounting policies and apply them UK GAAP give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, consistently: financial position and profit of the Company: and n Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable n The Directors report contained in the Annual Report and prudent: includes a fair review of the development and performance n For the Group financial statements, state whether they of the business and the position of the Company and have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Group, together with a description of the principal risks by the EU: and and uncertainties that they face.
n For the Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, Disclosure of information to auditors subject to any material departures disclosed and explained Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors in the financial statements.
are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the The Directors are also required by the Disclosure and Companys auditor is unaware, and the Directors have taken Transparency Rules to include a management report all the steps they ought to have taken to make themselves containing a fair review of the business and a description aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
By order of the Board The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Philip Davis the financial position of the Company and the Group and General Counsel and Company Secretary enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the 26 May 2010 Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, with regard to the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
