Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 105 Independent audItors report to the 1 members of Cable & WIreless WorldWIde plC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc for the period from incorporation on 24 September 2009 to 31 March 2010 set out on pages 106 to 112.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 56, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs web-site at www.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2010: have been properly prepared in accordance with UK GAAP as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Directors report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the listing rules we are required to review: The Directors statement, set out on page 39, in relation to going concern: and The part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 40 to 41 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Other matters We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc for the year ended 31 March 2010.
Peter Meehan Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 8 Salisbury Square London EC4Y 8BB 26 May 2010 1 Formerly Cable & Wireless Worldwide Limited, formerly Project Swan No.
