Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 63 notes to the Consolidated finanCial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 1 General information Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc the Company formerly Cable & Wireless Worldwide Limited, formerly Project Swan No.
1 Limited and its subsidiaries together the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group or the Group form an international telecommunications group providing critical communications infrastructure and services for large users of telecommunications worldwide.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union EU as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2010.
The financial statements have been presented as a continuation of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide business which was previously wholly owned by the Cable & Wireless Group now the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
In preparing these IFRS financial statements, the Group has measured its assets and liabilities based on the amounts that were included in the Cable and Wireless plc consolidated financial statements.
Since no consolidated financial statements were previously prepared for the Cable&Wireless Worldwide business, no reconciliations to previous GAAP have been presented.
Group reorganisation and demerger The Cable&Wireless Worldwide business was demerged from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group formerly the Cable & Wireless Group, with effect from 26 March 2010.
As a result of the demerger, the Cable&Wireless Worldwide business was transferred to a new ultimate parent company, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc.
The demerger was effected by a three part transaction which involved the following: The entire share capital of Cable and Wireless plc was cancelled and shareholders were given one ordinary share and one B share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc for every share of Cable and Wireless plc held.
The entire share capital of Cable & Wireless UK Holdings Limited, the parent entity of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide group of companies, was transferred to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, an unrelated company.
In return for the share capital of Cable & Wireless UK Holdings Limited, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc issued one ordinary share in itself of 5 pence to the holder of each Cable & Wireless Communications Plc B share prior to their cancellation as part of this transaction.
Shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc were admitted to the Official List of the Financial Services Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities on 26 March 2010.
See note 4 for further detail on significant aspects and transactions of the demerger.
As Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc did not have the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group companies, the acquisition has been accounted for in accordance with the principles of reverse acquisition as set out in IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
This had the effect that the legal acquirer, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc being treated for accounting purposes to have been acquired by its legal subsidiary, Cable & Wireless UK Holdings Limited, for the purposes of these consolidated financial statements.
The accounting principles that apply and the impact on these consolidated financial statements as a result of adopting this reverse acquisition accounting basis are set out in each applicable note to these consolidated financial statements.
In addition, the income statement of the Group has been prepared as if the continuing operations of the Group were in existence for the whole of the period from 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2010.
Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling as this is the most representative currency of the Groups operations, and rounded to the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments held at fair value.
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis see page 39 of the Directors report for further detail.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be reasonable under the circumstances.
They form the basis of judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a continuing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
Critical judgements and areas where the use of estimates is significant are discussed in note 3.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.
64 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 2.2 Application of recently issued International Financial Reporting Standards The Group considered the implications, if any, of the following amendments to IFRS during the year ended 31 March 2010.
New and amended Standards and Interpretations endorsed by the European Union and effective for the Group at dates from 1 April 2009 adopted by the Group in 2009 10 Title EU effective date Description Impact on the Group Amendments to IAS 1 Annual periods beginning The amendments affect the presentation of owner These are presentation Presentation of Financial Statements: on or after 1 January 2009. changes in equity and introduce the concept of amendments only and did A Revised Presentation comprehensive income.
They do not change not have a material impact on the recognition, measurement or disclosure of the results or position of the specific transactions and events required by Group.
Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1 Annual periods beginning The amendments require some puttable financial These amendments did not Puttable Financial Instruments and on or after 1 January 2009. instruments that impose on the entity an obligation have an effect on the Group.
Obligations Arising on Liquidation to deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation to be classified as equity.
IFRS 8 Annual periods beginning The IFRS requires disclosures in respect of the This is a presentation Operating Segments on or after 1 January 2009. operating segments of the Group.
This standard standard only and did not requires segmental disclosures presented on the have a material impact on the basis upon which management views the Group.
Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 27 Annual periods beginning The amendment removes the concept of preand The amendments did not Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, on or after 1 January 2009. post-acquisition reserves from IFRS.
have a material impact on the Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate Group.
Amendments to IFRS 7 Annual periods beginning This amendment contains further disclosure This is a disclosure standard Improving Disclosures about Financial on or after 1 January 2009. requirements to enhance the information available only and did not have a Instruments to investors about fair value measurement and material impact on the Group.
liquidity risk associated with an entitys financial instruments.
IFRIC 12 Annual periods beginning The interpretation gives guidance on the The Group does not have Service Concession Arrangements on or after 29 March 2009. accounting by operators for public-to-private any public-to-private service service concession arrangements.
IFRIC 14 Annual periods beginning IFRIC 14 clarifies three issues: This interpretation did not IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit on or after 1 January 2009. how entities should determine the limit placed have a material impact on the Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements by IAS 19 Employee Benefits on the amount of Group.
and their Interaction a surplus in a pension plan they can recognise as an asset: how a minimum funding requirement affects that limit: and when a minimum funding requirement creates an onerous obligation that should be recognised as a liability in addition to that otherwise recognised under IAS 19.
IFRIC 16 Annual periods beginning This Interpretation provides guidance on the This amendment did not Hedges of a Net Investment on or after 1 October 2008. nature of the hedged risk and the amount of the have a material impact on the in a Foreign Operation hedged item for which a hedging relationship Group.
may be designated, where in the group a hedging instrument can be held and which amounts should be reclassified from equity to the income statement as reclassification adjustments on disposal of the foreign operation.
Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Annual periods ending These amendments allow the reassessment The amendments did not Embedded Derivatives on or after 30 June 2009. of embedded derivatives on reclassification of have a material impact on the financial instruments out of the fair value through Group.
Improvements to IFRS 2008 Various dates, earliest is The Improvements to IFRS contains miscellaneous These improvements did not annual periods beginning necessary but non-urgent amendments to IFRS.
have a material impact on the on or after 1 January 2009.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 65 New and amended Standards and Interpretations endorsed by the European Union and not yet adopted by the Group Expected adoption date and Title IASB or EU effective date if later Description impact on the Group Revised IAS 27 Annual periods beginning The revisions to IAS 27 specify that changes in a The Group will adopt for Consolidated and Separate on or after 1 July 2009. parents ownership interest in a subsidiary that do 2010 11.
This amendment is Financial Statements not result in the loss of control must be accounted consistent with current Group for as equity transactions.
Amendments to IAS 32 Annual periods beginning The amendment requires that rights, options or The Group will adopt for Classification of Rights Issues on or after 1 February 2010. warrants to acquire a fixed number of the entitys 2010 11.
These amendments own equity instruments for a fixed amount of any are not expected to have a currency are equity instruments if the entity offers material impact on the Group.
the rights, options or warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of the same class of its own nonderivative equity instruments.
Amendments to IAS 39 Annual periods beginning The amendment clarifies how existing hedge The Group will adopt for Financial Instruments: Recognition and on or after 1 July 2009. accounting principles should be applied to the 2010 11.
These amendments Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items designation of a one-sided risk in a hedged item are not expected to have a and to inflation in a hedged item.
material impact on the Group.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Annual periods beginning These amendments clarify the scope of IFRS 2 The Group will adopt for Group Cash-settled Share-based on or after 1 January 2010. and its interaction with other standards.
These amendments Payment Transactions also address how an entity should account for are not expected to have a some share-based payments in its own financial material impact on the Group.
statements if its parent or another entity in the Group will pay for goods or services that it has received.
Revised IFRS 3 Annual periods beginning The main changes in the revised IFRS 3 include the These changes will be Business Combinations on or after 1 July 2009. separate accounting of acquisition related costs, effective for businesses changes to business combinations achieved in purchased by the Group stages and changes to the accounting for business after 31 March 2010.
As combinations where less than 100% of the equity such, no assessment can be is acquired.
IFRIC 17 Annual periods beginning This interpretation applies to non-cash dividends The Group will adopt for Distribution of Non-cash Assets on or after 1 July 2009. excluding those controlled by the same party 2010 11.
This interpretation to Owners before and after the transaction.
It clarifies the is not expected to have a recognition and measurement of non-cash material impact on the Group.
IFRIC 18 Annual periods beginning The IFRIC clarifies how existing IFRS are applied The Group will adopt for Transfers of Assets from Customers on or after 1 November 2009. to agreements in which an entity receives an asset 2010 11.
This interpretation from a customer which it then uses to connect the is not expected to have a customer to a network to provide ongoing access material impact on the Group.
Improvements to IFRS 2009 Various dates, earliest is The Improvements to IFRS contains miscellaneous The Group will adopt for annual periods beginning on necessary but non-urgent amendments to IFRS.
These improvements or after 1 July 2009. are not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
66 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 2.2 Application of recently issued International Financial Reporting Standards continued New and amended Standards and Interpretations not yet adopted by the European Union and the Group Expected adoption date subject to European Union endorsement and impact on Title IASB effective date Description the Group IFRS 9 Annual periods beginning This IFRS simplifies the classification, recognition The Group will adopt for Financial Instruments on or after 1 January 2013. and measurement requirements for financial assets, 2013 14.
This IFRS replaces financial liabilities and some contracts to buy or sell parts of IAS 39 and is not non-financial items.
expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Revised IAS 24 Annual periods beginning The revisions provide an exemption from The Group will adopt for Related Party Disclosures on or after 1 January 2011. disclosure requirements for transactions between 2011 12.
These revisions state-controlled entities and removes some are not expected to have a inconsistencies.
Amendments to IFRIC 14 Annual periods beginning The amendments permit entities to treat an early The Group will adopt for Prepayments of a Minimum Funding on or after 1 January 2011. payment of a contribution to cover minimum 2011 12.
These amendments Requirement funding requirements as an asset.
are consistent with current Group policy.
IFRIC 19 Annual periods beginning This IFRIC provides guidance on accounting for The Group will adopt for Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with on or after 1 July 2010. debt to equity swaps where a debtor extinguishes 2011 12.
This IFRIC is not Equity Instruments the liability fully or partially by issuing equity expected to have material instruments to the creditor.
Improvements to IFRS 2010 Various dates, earliest is The Improvements to IFRS contains miscellaneous The Group will adopt annual periods beginning necessary but non-urgent amendments to IFRS.
These on or after 1 January 2011. improvements are not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
2.3 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
The financial statements of the Groups main trading subsidiaries and joint ventures have been prepared to align with the Groups reporting date.
a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by and forming part of the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, the existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are considered.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively takes control until the date that control ceases.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned with the policies adopted by the Group to ensure consistency.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued at the date of exchange plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
b Joint ventures Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
Joint ventures are entities over which the Group exercises joint control.
The Groups investment in joint ventures may include goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
Accounting policies of joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The Groups share of its joint ventures post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement.
Its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in equity.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture exceeds its investment including any other unsecured long-term receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups investment.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 67 2.4 Segmental reporting IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires disclosures in respect of the operating segments of the Group according to the management approach.
This approach reflects the type and extent of information presented to the chief operating decision-maker of the Group the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group Board.
The Board considers the results of the business as a whole when assessing the performance of the Group and making decisions about the allocation of resources.
Accordingly, the Group discloses a single reportable operating segment.
The results of this operating segment are reported in note 5 in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Board.
2.5 Foreign currency translation a Functional currency Amounts included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
b Foreign currency translation Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
c Foreign operations The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Groups presentation currency of Sterling are translated as follows: i assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date: ii income and expenses are translated at rates closely approximating the rate at the date of the transactions: and iii resulting exchange differences are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
On disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to equity.
Where investments are matched in whole or in part by foreign currency loans, the exchange differences arising on the retranslation of such loans are also recorded as movements in the Groups translation reserve and any excess taken to the income statement.
There are no Group entities operating in a hyperinflationary economy.
2.6 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes labour and overhead costs arising directly from the construction or acquisition of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated costs of dismantling and removing assets and restoring sites on which they are located are included in the cost of property, plant and equipment.
The corresponding obligation is recognised as a provision in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that the future economic benefits will flow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
All other subsequent costs primarily repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Interest costs relating to borrowings for major capital projects those that take six months or more to complete are capitalised as part of the cost of assets when it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the entity and the costs can be measured reliably.
The interest costs included are only those that are incurred up to the time that those projects are ready for service.
68 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 2.6 Property, plant and equipment continued Depreciation is not recognised on freehold land or assets under construction.
On other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is recognised on the difference between the cost of an item and its estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: Lives Cables up to 20 years Network equipment 3 to 25 years Ducting 40 years Freehold buildings 40 years Leasehold buildings up to 40 years or term of lease if less Asset residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date.
An assets carrying amount is written down to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount through sale or use.
Gains and losses on the sale of property, plant and equipment are determined by reference to the proceeds and net book values.
These gains and losses are recognised in the income statement.
Engineering spares held for use by the Group over a period exceeding one year are included in assets under construction.
They are stated at cost and include an appropriate allocation of labour and overheads.
The cost is determined on a weighted average basis.
Allowance is made for deterioration and obsolescence.
2.7 Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary or joint venture.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures is included in the carrying value of those investments.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
b Other intangible assets Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of identifiable and unique software products by the Group are recognised as intangible assets.
Expenditures that enhance and extend the benefits of computer software programs beyond their original specifications and lives are recognised as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software.
Expenditure is only capitalised if costs can be measured reliably, the product is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development and to use the asset.
Intangible assets relating to licences and customer contracts obtained as part of the Groups business combinations are recorded initially at their fair values.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation on a straight-line basis over the following periods: Lives Software 3 to 5 years Licences 25 years or less if the licence term is shorter Customer contracts 4 to 15 years Other 3 to 5 years 2.8 Financial instruments Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement, receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets are held.
The Group does not currently classify any assets as fair value through the income statement or held-to-maturity investments.
The basis of determining fair values is set out in note 2.9.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair value through the income statement.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 69 Financial assets at fair value through the income statement This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through the income statement at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term or if so designated by management.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading.
Assets classified as financial assets at fair value through the income statement are presented as current assets if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realised within one year of the reporting date.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category at inception or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the reporting date.
Purchases and sales of assets are recognised on the trade-date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Receivables Receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the receivable.
Receivables are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than one year after the reporting date where they are classified as non-current assets.
Receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the statement of financial position.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is determined using the effective interest method less valuation allowance if necessary.
A valuation allowance for receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the allowance is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
Financial assets recognition and measurement Financial assets at fair value through the income statement are recognised and subsequently carried at fair value.
Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised and subsequently carried at fair value.
Receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Gains and losses both realised and unrealised arising from changes in the value of financial assets held at fair value through the income statement are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether it is impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets the cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
This loss is measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised on these instruments are not reversed through the income statement if the fair value of the security increases in a later period.
Derivative financial instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each reporting date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Gains and losses on derivative instruments that are not designated as hedge instruments are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Group does not hedge net investments in foreign operations and does not hold any hedging instruments.
Financial liabilities Loans Loans are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the loans using the effective interest method.
70 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 2.8 Financial instruments continued Convertible bonds bonds that can be converted into share capital at the option of the holder issued by the Group are initially recognised at fair value.
The bonds are separated into liability and equity components on initial recognition.
The liability component is initially recognised at the fair value of a similar liability without an equity conversion option.
The equity component represents the fair value of the bond less the liability component.
Any directly attributable transaction costs are allocated to the liability and equity components in proportion to their initial carrying amounts.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the liability component of the bond is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The equity component is not remeasured subsequent to initial recognition.
Loans are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting date where they are classified as non-current liabilities.
Puttable instruments Puttable instruments on non-controlling interests issued as part of a business combination are accounted for by the Group as a financial liability at fair value.
The liability is based on the present value of the redemption amount as if the puttable instrument had been exercised at the reporting date.
Movements in the value of the liability together with dividends paid to non-controlling interests are recognised as adjustments to goodwill with the unwind of the discount on the fair value calculation being recognised in the income statement.
2.9 Fair value estimation for financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as publicly traded derivatives or trading and available-for-sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the reporting date.
The quoted market price used for traded financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
The appropriate quoted market price for traded financial liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses a variety of methods which include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models which reflect the specific instrument.
The nominal value of receivables less any valuation allowance and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities measured at amortised cost is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Discounted cash flows are used to determine the fair value for the majority of remaining financial instruments.
2.10 Impairment of assets excluding financial instruments Assets that have indefinite useful lives are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
All other non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
The Group determines any impairment by comparing the carrying values of each of the Groups assets or cash generating units to which it belongs to their recoverable amounts which is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Fair value represents market value in an active market.
Value in use is determined by discounting future cash flows arising from the asset.
Future cash flows are determined with reference to the Groups own projections using pre-tax discount rates which represent the estimated weighted average cost of capital for the business.
The approach, assumptions and results of the impairment test are set out in note 15.
Impairment reviews involve management making assumptions and estimates, which are highly judgemental and susceptible to change.
2.11 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is the price paid less any rebates, trade discounts or subsidies.
It also includes delivery charges and import duties, but does not include value added taxes or advertising and administration costs.
Cost is based on the first-in, first-out FIFO principle.
For inventories held for resale, net realisable value is determined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less costs to sell.
For materials and consumables, provision is made for obsolete and slow moving inventories as required.
2.12 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and at bank, short-term deposits, money market funds and government securities.
They are highly liquid monetary investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the statement of financial position at fair value.
Bank overdrafts are included within loans in current liabilities on the statement of financial position.
2.13 Share capital Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or standalone options are recognised in equity as a deduction from the issue proceeds.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 71 2.14 Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment in which the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the underlying liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in payables.
These payments are split between capital and interest elements using the annuity method.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases comprising a lease of land and a lease of buildings within a single contract are split into the two component parts.
The component part for buildings is then tested to determine whether the lease is a finance or operating lease and treated accordingly.
Leases of land and all other leases are classified as operating leases and are not recognised in the statement of financial position.
Payments made under operating leases, net of lease incentives or premiums received, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
2.15 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale When the value of non-current assets is expected to be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing usage, they are classified as non-current assets held for sale.
With the exception of deferred tax assets, assets arising from employee benefits and financial instruments, these assets are classified as current and are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Disposal groups are groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of together as a group in a single transaction.
They are recognised as held for sale at the reporting date and are separately disclosed as current assets and liabilities on the statement of financial position.
Measurement differences arising between the carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal are treated as impairment charges and separately disclosed.
2.16 Employee benefits Defined contribution pensions A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions to a third party.
The Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense as they are incurred.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Defined benefit obligations A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
These schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or Trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The asset or liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of each defined benefit pension plan represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date.
Assets are only recognised to the extent that the present value of the economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan exceed the fair value of the plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations.
Defined benefit obligations for each scheme are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of these obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid.
The corporate bonds used have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses, arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions, in the period in which they occur in the statement of comprehensive income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employee remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In these cases, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Current service costs and any past service costs, together with the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities less the expected return on plan assets, are included within operating costs.
The IAS 19 surplus or deficit of defined benefit funds is adjusted to reflect the future economic benefits available in the form of a cash refund or a reduction in future contributions, allowing for minimum funding contributions in accordance with IFRIC 14.
Any adjustment to the surplus is recorded directly in equity.
72 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 2.16 Employee benefits continued Share-based compensation The Group operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense over the vesting period.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, service, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in estimates about the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original non-market estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to the action leading to the employees termination.
Termination benefits falling due more than a year after reporting date are discounted to present value.
Bonus plans The Group recognises a liability where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The plan rewards executive directors of the Group and certain senior employees in the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
The plan is accounted for as an other long term employee benefit in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The amount recognised as a liability represents the estimated present value of the obligation at the reporting date.
The LTIP creates a reward pool over a five year period from 1 April 2006 or until a vesting event, if earlier depending on the extent to which the business has grown in value from its base valuation at the start of the period this period was changed from four to five years in July 2009.
Base valuations are adjusted over the performance period i to reflect additional capital notionally treated as borrowed by the business, ii to reflect capital notionally treated as returned by the business: and iii increased by the notional weighted average cost of capital of the business which will be at least 8% per annum compounded.
If the business value is lower than its adjusted base valuation at the end of the performance period, there will be no reward pool.
To the extent that the business value exceeds its adjusted base valuation at the end of the performance period, 10% of the excess growth in value goes into the reward pool.
Part of the reward pool was paid to participants up to the end of year three 31 March 2009, with a portion payable less payments made at end of year three to participants at the end of year four 31 March 2010 and the balance in full at the end of year five 31 March 2011.
Measurement of the size of the reward pool is carried out every six months to correspond with the Groups reporting periods.
However, apart from awards held by participants who ceased employment as good leavers, no awards vested until the end of year three.
In the event of a potential payment to an individual in excess of 20 million, the deferral period would be extended until 31 March 2012 or for a period of up to one year following a vesting event, if earlier.
2.17 Tax Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, except where the difference arises from: the initial recognition of goodwill: or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, affecting neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 73 Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
2.18 Provisions Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
They are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are presented in the statement of financial position at the present value of the estimated future outflows expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The discount rate is the pre-tax rate reflecting the assessment of the settlement date.
Provision charges and reversals are recognised in the income statement.
Discount unwinding is recognised as a finance expense.
Provisions are recognised for unavoidable lease payments in onerous contracts as the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties being sublet.
Redundancy provisions, relating to both continuing and discontinued operations, comprise employee termination payments.
Legal provisions comprise legal fees and, where appropriate, expected settlement costs.
2.19 Revenue recognition Revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services provided to customers.
It includes sales to joint ventures but does not include sales by joint ventures or sales between Group companies.
Revenue is recognised only when payment is probable.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are provided.
In respect of services invoiced in advance, amounts are deferred until provision of the service.
Amounts payable by and to other telecommunications operators are recognised as the services are provided.
Charges are negotiated separately and are subject to continual review.
Revenue generated through the provision of these services is accounted for gross of any amounts payable to other telecommunications operators for interconnect fees.
The Group earns revenue from the transmission of content and traffic on its network originated by third party providers.
The Group assesses whether revenue should be recorded gross as principal or net as agent, based on the features of such arrangements including the following factors: whether the Group holds itself out as an agent: whether the Group has latitude for establishing the price, directly or indirectly, for example by providing additional services: provision of customer remedies: whether the Group has the primary responsibility for providing the services to the customer or for fulfilling the order: and assumption of credit risk.
Revenue from sales of telecommunication equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer.
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple revenue generating activities generally the sale of telecom equipment and ongoing service is allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently based on the estimated fair value of the components.
When the fair value of components can not be assessed the revenue is spread over the term of the service.
Revenue arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised evenly over the periods in which the service is provided.
2.20 Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
2.21 Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items which derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are identified as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
Further detail on exceptional items is set out in note 6 and in the relevant note for each item.
2.22 Transactions with holders of non-controlling interests Transactions to acquire or dispose of ownership interests in the Groups subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
In these cases, the carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in the Groups relative interest in the subsidiary.
Any difference between the amount by which the noncontrolling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity attributable to the owners of the parent.
74 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, a number of estimates and assumptions have been made relating to the reporting of results of operations and the financial position of the Group.
Results may differ significantly from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
The Directors consider that the following discussion addresses the Groups most critical accounting estimates and judgements, which are those that are most important to the presentation of its consolidated financial position and results.
These particular policies require subjective and complex judgements, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are uncertain.
3.1 Valuation of assets for purchase accounting Where the Group undertakes business combinations, the cost of acquisition is allocated to identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities acquired and assumed by reference to their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition.
The remaining amount is recorded as goodwill.
Any value assigned to the identifiable assets is determined by reference to an active market, independent appraisal or estimate by management based on cash flow projections.
The latter situation includes estimates and judgements regarding expectations for the economic useful lives of the products and technology acquired.
In this situation, where appropriate, third party valuation specialists are involved.
3.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment The Group assigns useful lives and residual values to property, plant and equipment based on periodic studies of actual asset lives and the intended use for those assets.
Changes in circumstances such as technological advances, prospective economic utilisation and physical condition of the assets concerned could result in the actual useful lives or residual values differing from initial estimates.
Where the Group determines that the useful life of property, plant and equipment should be shortened or residual value reduced, it depreciates the net book value in excess of the residual value over the revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing depreciation expense.
Any change in an assets life or residual value is reflected in the Groups financial statements when the change in estimate is determined.
3.3 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets The Directors assess the impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or otherwise as required by accounting standards.
Factors that are considered important and which could trigger an impairment review include the following: obsolescence or physical damage: significant changes in technology and regulatory environments: significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results: significant changes in the use of its assets or the strategy of the overall business: significant negative industry or economic trends: and significant decline in the market capitalisation relative to net book value for a sustained period.
In addition, the Directors test goodwill at least annually for impairment.
The identification of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of the recoverable amount for assets or cash generating units requires significant judgement.
Note 15 sets out the assumptions and judgements used during these assessments.
3.4 Revenue recognition Judgement is required in assessing the application of revenue recognition principles and the specific guidance in respect of Group revenue.
This includes the presentation of revenue as principal or as agent in respect of income received from transmission of content provided by third parties.
3.5 Receivables allowance The valuation allowance for trade receivables reflects the Groups estimates of losses arising from the failure or inability of the Groups customers to make required payments.
The allowance is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer credit worthiness and the Groups historical write-off experience.
Changes to the allowance may be required if the financial condition of the Groups customers improves or deteriorates.
An improvement in financial condition may result in lower actual write-offs.
Historically, changes to the estimate of losses have not been material to the Groups financial position and results.
3.6 Customer and supplier commitments The nature of the telecommunications industry is such that estimates are often required to be made in relation to customer or supplier commitments, the final outcome of which may not be known for some time.
The Group uses estimates of price or usage to determine the revenue and expense recognised in any period.
These estimates are periodically adjusted to reflect actual pricing or usage as such information becomes available or is agreed.
As issues arise or are resolved, accruals are created or released as appropriate - the net impact of this is included in operating profit within the relevant line item.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 75 3.7 Interconnection with other operators As part of the normal course of business, the Group interconnects with other telecommunications operators.
In certain instances it uses estimates to determine the amount of revenue receivable from or expense payable to these other operators.
The prices at which these services are charged are sometimes regulated and may be subject to retrospective adjustment.
Estimates are used in assessing the likely impact of these adjustments.
Adjustments to interconnect estimates are taken to operating profit in the period in which the adjustments are made.
3.8 Taxation The tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges or credits.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items where the tax treatment cannot be finally determined until a resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, if necessary, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material income statement and or cash flow variances.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and is often dependent on the efficiency of the administrative and legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result there can be substantial differences between the tax charge in the income statement and tax payments.
3.9 Recognition of deferred tax assets The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the future, against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted.
Recognition therefore involves judgement regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
3.10 Provisions A provision is recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation in respect of a past event as explained in the accounting policy in note 2.18.
Judgement is required to quantify such amounts.
3.11 Pensions The Group provides several defined benefit pension schemes for its employees.
The asset or liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date.
The expected cost of providing these defined benefit pensions will depend on an assessment of such factors as: the life expectancy of the members: the length of service: the rate of salary progression: the rate of return earned on assets in the future: the rate used to discount future pension liabilities: and future inflation rates.
The assumptions used by the Group are set out in note 29 and are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which may not necessarily be borne out in practice but have been comparable to the median estimates in this regard used by other FTSE 100 companies.
Changes to these assumptions could materially affect the size of the defined benefit schemes liabilities and assets disclosed in note 29.
3.12 Fair value estimation The basis of determining fair values is set out in note 2.9.
Where market values are not available, fair values are based on valuation methodologies which require inputs and forecasts to be made.
Judgement is required in determining the appropriate assumptions underlying those inputs and forecasts.
The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each reporting date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
76 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 3.13 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The charge calculated in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits requires estimates of the valuation of the Group to determine the obligation for the LTIP.
The estimates require the use of a number of assumptions which, by their nature, are subjective.
Please see pages 46 to 47 of the Remuneration report for further information.
4 Demerger At a General Meeting on 25 February 2010, the shareholders of Cable and Wireless plc approved the demerger of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
On 26 March 2010 the demerger date, the Cable&Wireless Worldwide businesses were transferred to an unrelated company, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, in return for the entire share capital of that company see note 2.1 for details of the demerger transactions.
As a result of the demerger, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc became the ultimate parent company of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide subsidiaries.
Trading of shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc on the London Stock Exchange commenced on 26 March 2010.
The significant aspects of the demerger transaction were: long term intercompany debt owed to the Cable & Wireless Group now the Cable & Wireless Communications Group of 931 million 31 March 2009 976 million was capitalised prior to demerger: the convertible bond issued by Cable and Wireless plc and subsequently transferred to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc was transferred to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, along with proceeds of 230 million: the Cable & Wireless Communications Group agreed to transfer cash of 79 million primarily to settle the Cable&Wireless Worldwide portion of the 2009 10 final dividend of the Cable & Wireless Group now Cable & Wireless Communications Group on 1 April 2010.
This is classified in other receivables at 31 March 2010: and plan assets and pension obligations of the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund relating to Worldwide employees with a net IAS 19 value of 141 million were transferred to the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
Prior to demerger, the Cable & Wireless Group provided funding to entities in the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
These loans were interest bearing, but were not expected to be repaid, and were recorded within the financial statements of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc as part of its investment in Cable&Wireless Worldwide subsidiaries.
On demerger, these loans were capitalised and not repaid.
Due to the requirements of IFRS, the balance of these loans with the Cable & Wireless Group now Cable & Wireless Communications Group, were required to be shown as a non-current liability until demerger and then credited to equity post-demerger.
The interest expense on the funding balance was recognised through the income statement.
The balance was not secured on any of the Groups assets and was denominated in Sterling.
5 Segment information Reportable segments The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group is an international telecommunications service provider.
It specialises in the provision of communication infrastructure and services to large users of telecommunications services across the UK and worldwide.
Across the UK and worldwide the Group operates as a single operating segment.
The Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc Board considered the results of the business as a whole when assessing the performance of the business and making decisions about the allocation of resources.
Accordingly, the Group had one reportable operating segment.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 77 The results from continuing operations, in the format as provided to the Board for the years ended 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 are presented below: 2009 10 2008 09 m m Revenue 2,265 2,268 Cost of sales 1,190 1,323 Gross margin 1,075 945 Pre-exceptional operating costs 644 619 1 EBITDA 431 326 LTIP charge 14 17 Depreciation and amortisation 268 212 Net other operating expense 1 Group operating profit 148 97 Exceptional operating costs see note 6 207 76 Total operating loss profit 59 21 Loss on sale of non-current assets 1 1 Net finance expense 31 85 Non-operating exceptional items see note 11 3 Loss before income tax 94 65 Income tax credit 95 33 Profit loss for the year 1 32 1 EBITDA is based on management reporting and is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, LTIP charge, net other operating income expense, losses on sale of non-current assets and exceptional items see note 40.
There are no differences in the measurement of the reportable segments results and the Groups results.
The additions to non-current assets during the year excluding financial assets, deferred tax assets and defined benefit pension assets were 279 million 2008 09 484 million.
Additional information Below is a summary of revenue and gross margin by market channels.
Gross margin includes revenue and those costs directly attributable to specific revenue streams or customers.
The gross margin does not include the costs of running and maintaining the network, including depreciation, which is the primary asset used across all market channels.
Further, the management, legal and operating structure of the Group is not organised around these market channels.
These analyses are not used by the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group Board to allocate resources across the Group as a large proportion of the expenses of the Group are not customer specific.
Accordingly, the Directors believe these market channels are not operating segments for the purposes of IFRS 8.
The analysis of gross margin by market channel is presented below as additional, non-GAAP information: UK UK UK Enterprise Public Sector Global Mid-market UK Carrier Total Year ended 31 March 2010 m m m m m m Revenue 837 285 552 242 349 2,265 Cost of sales 391 117 320 124 238 1,190 Gross margin 446 168 232 118 111 1,075 UK UK UK Enterprise Public Sector Global Mid-market UK Carrier Total Year ended 31 March 2009 m m m m m m Revenue 827 268 592 212 369 2,268 Cost of sales 422 121 397 129 254 1,323 Gross margin 405 147 195 83 115 945 78 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 5 Segment information continued Group-wide information The information on products and services, non-current assets and major customers across the Group required by IFRS 8 are presented below.
Non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and defined benefit pension assets can be classified by country as follows: 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m United Kingdom 1,868 1,858 All other countries 62 51 Total 1,930 1,909 The revenue from external customers can be analysed by product as follows: 2009 10 2008 09 m m Data and IP 978 812 Hosting and applications 240 224 Traditional voice including legacy 1,047 1,232 Total 2,265 2,268 Revenue by country can be classified as follows: 2009 10 2008 09 m m United Kingdom 2,069 2,067 All other countries 196 201 Total 2,265 2,268 Revenue is allocated to a country based on the location of the customer contract.
It does not follow necessarily that the international telecommunications traffic transiting the Groups networks originates in that location.
The Group does not have access to information on the original source or ultimate destination of international telecommunications traffic.
The Group does not have any customers from which revenue exceeds 10% of Group revenue.
6 Operating costs An analysis of the operating costs incurred by the Group, classified by the nature of the cost, is presented below: 2009 10 2008 09 PrePreexceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total m m m m m m Outpayments and direct costs 1,190 1,190 1,323 1,323 Employee and other staff expenses 300 181 481 305 39 344 Operating lease rentals networks 46 46 39 39 property 59 7 66 51 17 68 Other administrative expenses 74 10 84 57 6 63 Network costs 131 9 140 126 14 140 Property and utility costs 48 48 58 58 Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 1,848 207 2,055 1,959 76 2,035 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 223 223 174 174 Amortisation of intangible assets 45 45 38 38 Operating costs 2,116 207 2,323 2,171 76 2,247 Operating costs are stated net of credits or charges arising from the release or establishment of accruals.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 79 Exceptional items Exceptional items relate to the demerger 153 million and the ongoing programme of restructuring the Groups operations including the integration of the THUS Group including redundancy, vacant property and onerous network costs 31 million and other integration projects 23 million.
Exceptional items within operating costs are disclosed below, while further information on other exceptional items is given in note 11.
2009 10 2008 09 Note m m Exceptional items within operating costs Employee costs excluding pension costs i 38 39 Pension costs ii 143 Property costs iii 7 17 Network and other costs iv 9 20 Costs of demerger v 10 Total exceptional operating costs 207 76 i Exceptional employee costs principally related to redundancy costs arising from the restructuring of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Groups operations excluding demerger and THUS Group post acquisition integration.
These costs were net of a 2 million provision release 2008 09 2 million and a redundancy related pension curtailment credit of 1 million 2008 09 credit of 4 million.
ii The exceptional pension cost results from the initial recognition of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide retirement plan defined benefit pension scheme and unfunded scheme as part of the demerger refer to note 29 for further information.
iii Exceptional property costs relate to vacant property provisions recognised and were net of 8 million 2008 09 14 million of provision releases.
iv Exceptional network costs in 2009 10 relate to the provision for network costs from business transformation initiatives and other network costs associated with the integration of the THUS Group.
In 2008 09, network and other costs related to 14 million of network costs and 6 million of other costs.
v Exceptional demerger costs in 2009 10 relate to professional fees and other costs associated with demerger and establishing a head office function.
Auditors remuneration 2009 10 2008 09 m m Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates: Statutory audit services in respect of the Groups accounts 1.0 0.8 Audit services in respect of prior years in respect of the Groups accounts Audit of the Groups annual accounts 1.0 0.8 Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates: Statutory audit services in respect of other statutory accounts 0.5 0.7 Audit services in respect of prior years in respect of other statutory accounts Audit related regulatory reporting 0.2 0.1 Audit and audit related services 1.7 1.6 Tax services 0.2 0.4 Services related to corporate finance transactions 2.9 Other services 0.2 0.5 5.0 2.5 Fees paid to KPMG for audit and other services to the Company are not disclosed in its individual accounts as the Group accounts are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Services relating to corporate finance transactions are largely in relation to the demerger and have been offset against the share premium account as part of the demerger transaction.
7 Other operating income There was no other operating income in 2009 10.
In 2008 09, other operating income of 1 million related to the sale of a database and gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
80 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 8 Other operating expense In 2009 10 and 2008 09 other operating expense of 1 million related to losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
9 Employee and other staff expenses Costs of employees and contract staff of the Group The pre-exceptional employee and other staff expenses are set out below: 2009 10 2008 09 m m Wages and salaries 282 288 Social security costs 29 27 Share-based payments 5 6 Long Term Incentive Plan 14 17 Pension expense credit : defined benefit plans 4 2 management charge credit for the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund pension plan 4 10 other defined contribution plans 14 12 Temporary labour and recruitment 4 7 356 349 Less: Staff costs capitalised 56 44 Staff costs 300 305 Exceptional employee and other staff expenses of 181 million 2008 09 39 million are set out in note 6.
Average number of employees The average number of persons, including Executive Directors, employed by the Group in continuing operations during the year was: 2009 10 2008 09 Commercial 1,572 1,699 Customer services 2,742 1,998 Network operations 1,275 1,170 Support 923 502 Other 63 236 Total 6,575 5,605 Key managements remuneration Key management includes Directors and any senior employees that have regular access to inside information and have the power to make managerial decisions affecting the future development and business prospects of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
Included in employee costs are key management expenses as follows: 2009 10 2008 09 m m Salaries and other short-term employment benefits 3 3 Post-employment benefits Termination benefits Share-based payments 1 1 Long Term Incentive Plan 8 8 Total 12 12 Included in salaries and other short term employment benefits in the table above are aggregate Directors emoluments of 2 million 2008 09 2 million.
10 Losses on the sale of non-current assets In 2009 10 and 2008 09 the losses on disposal of non-current assets principally arose on the recycling of foreign currency translation reserve balances on liquidation of subsidiaries.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 81 11 Finance income and expense 2009 10 2008 09 PrePreexceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total m m m m m m Finance income Interest on cash and deposits 3 3 Interest on receivables 2 2 Total finance income 2 2 3 3 Finance expense Interest on bank loans 9 9 6 6 Interest on funding loan with the Cable & Wireless Communications Group 14 14 74 74 Finance charges on leases 2 2 2 2 Capitalised financing costs written off 3 3 Unwinding of discounts on provisions 8 8 6 6 Total finance expense 33 3 36 88 88 Exceptional finance expense of 3 million relates to accelerated amortisation of previously capitalised borrowing costs associated with the 200 million revolving credit facility repaid during the year.
12 Income tax credit 2009 10 2008 09 m m Current tax charge UK tax at 28% Overseas tax 1 Adjustments relating to prior years 4 Total current tax charge 1 4 Deferred tax credit Origination and reversal of temporary differences 96 37 Total deferred tax credit 96 37 Total income tax credit 95 33 There were no tax charges relating to exceptional items or items of other comprehensive income.
The differences between the total tax shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax to the loss before tax is as follows: 2009 10 2008 09 m m Continuing operations Tax on loss at UK corporation tax rate of 28% 26 18 Effect of overseas tax rates 1 1 Effect of disallowed expenditure 12 13 Effect of changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets 82 31 Adjustments relating to prior years 4 Tax credit 95 33 82 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 13 Earnings per share Basic earnings per ordinary share is based on the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding.
As a result of the demerger Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc became the new parent of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide businesses.
Therefore, the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding has been calculated using the number of ordinary shares issued by Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc to the shareholders of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc at the date of the demerger 26 March 2010 and adjusted for: movements in the number of ordinary shares of Cable and Wireless plc in the period prior to 19 March 2010 and Cable & Wireless Communications Plc for the period from 19 March 2010 to demerger: and movements in the number of ordinary shares outstanding from the demerger date to 31 March 2010 using the actual number of ordinary shares of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc outstanding during that period.
2009 10 2008 09 Profit loss for the financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders m 1 32 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding millions 2,544 2,486 Dilutive effect of share options millions 24 26 Number of ordinary shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share millions 2,568 2,512 Basic earnings per share pence per share 0.0 1.3 Diluted earnings per share pence per share 0.0 1.3 14 Dividends declared and paid In respect of the year ended 31 March 2010, the Directors have proposed a dividend of 3.00 pence per share, totalling 79 million, for approval by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 21 July 2010.
These financial statements do not reflect the proposed dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ended 31 March 2011.
The Cable & Wireless Worldwide Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust waived its right to dividends on the shares held in the trust.
15 Impairment review The Group assesses the impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or otherwise as required by accounting standards.
Factors that are considered important, which could trigger an impairment review, are set out in note 3.3.
Goodwill Year ended 31 March 2010 and 2009 A review of the carrying value of goodwill has been performed at each year end.
In performing these reviews, the recoverable amount of goodwill has been determined by reference to the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use of the continuing operations of the related businesses.
The value in use was the higher of these two measures in both years and no impairments were required in any of the periods presented.
At 31 March 2010, the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group allocated goodwill to one group of cash generating units as this represented the lowest level within the entity at which goodwill was monitored.
This is because it generated revenue through an integrated network for which the Group is unable to identify relevant cash flows separately.
Goodwill of 800 million was allocated this group of cash generating units CGUs at 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 - 784 million.
A discounted cash flow analysis was performed using the Board approved five year business projection which was extended using a terminal value growth rate of 1% and a pre-tax discount rate of 9% 31 March 2009 - 10%.
The terminal growth rate was determined using long term historical growth rates of the group of CGUs, which have been benchmarked to long term average growth rates of the industry.
The discount rate reflects the current market assessment of the risk free rate and equity risk premium of the Group and have been benchmarked against published industry data.
The other key assumptions on which the projected cash flows are based relate to EBITDA growth and the level of capital expenditure required to maintain the network at its current level.
These assumptions were determined using a combination of long-term trends, industry forecasts and inhouse estimates.
The value in use would not support the carrying value of the goodwill if earnings decreased or maintenance capital expenditure increased by more than 60 million per year: or the discount rate increased by more than 3 percentage points.
Property, plant and equipment and other intangibles Year ended 31 March 2010 and 2009 There were no events or changes in circumstances during the year to indicate that the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets had been impaired.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 83 16 Intangible assets Licences and Customer operating contracts and Goodwill Software agreements relationships Total m m m m m Cost At 1 April 2008 431 665 21 130 1,247 Business combinations 350 5 15 370 Additions 16 16 Exchange differences 3 3 6 At 31 March 2009 784 684 26 145 1,639 Business combinations 17 17 Additions 25 25 Disposals 4 19 23 Exchange differences 1 1 At 31 March 2010 800 705 7 145 1,657 Amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2008 619 17 31 667 Charge for the year 21 2 15 38 Exchange differences 2 1 1 At 31 March 2009 638 20 46 704 Charge for the year 25 2 18 45 Disposals 4 19 23 Exchange differences 1 1 At 31 March 2010 658 3 64 725 Net book value At 31 March 2010 800 47 4 81 932 At 31 March 2009 784 46 6 99 935 84 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 17 Property, plant and equipment 2009 10 2008 09 Land and Plant and Assets under Land and Plant and Assets under buildings equipment construction Total buildings equipment construction Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1 April 315 5,186 55 5,556 302 4,849 73 5,224 Additions 4 250 254 1 73 172 246 Movements in asset retirement obligations 1 1 2 3 5 8 Business combinations 11 191 202 Disposals 2 30 32 30 207 3 240 Transfers between categories 12 224 236 11 178 189 - Exchange differences 2 7 9 17 97 2 116 At 31 March 322 5,376 69 5,767 315 5,186 55 5,556 Depreciation At 1 April 262 4,346 4,608 269 4,297 4,566 Charge for the year 9 214 223 6 168 174 Disposals 2 28 30 30 207 237 Exchange differences 1 7 8 17 88 105 At 31 March 268 4,525 4,793 262 4,346 4,608 Net book value at 31 March 54 851 69 974 53 840 55 948 Included in the net book value of property, plant and equipment at 31 March 2010 is 38 million 31 March 2009 19 million of assets held under finance leases.
Additions during the year include own work capitalised during the construction of certain assets of 56 million 2008 09 44 million.
18 Investments in joint ventures 2009 10 2008 09 m m Gross carrying amount At 1 April Cost 5 12 Share of post-acquisition reserves 2 17 3 5 Transfer to subsidiary undertaking 8 At 31 March 3 3 Impairment allowance At 1 April and 31 March 3 3 Net carrying amount at 31 March Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 85 There are no results of joint ventures in the year 2008 09 - nil.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
The carrying amount of the investments comprise the cost of the investment together with the Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss less any impairment allowances.
There were no significant restrictions on joint ventures ability to transfer funds to the Group.
The joint ventures had no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group was exposed, nor has the Group any significant contingent liabilities in relation to its interests in joint ventures.
The Groups joint ventures did not discontinue any operations during any of the periods presented.
On 1 April 2008 the Group gained control of Apollo Submarine Cable Systems Limited which was previously accounted for as a joint venture see note 34.
On the demerger from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group, the Cable & Wireless brand was transferred to a joint venture entity owned by and for the continuing use of the Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable&Wireless Worldwide Groups see note 36.
19 Available-for-sale financial assets 2009 10 2008 09 m m At 1 April 11 Additions 1 Reclassified to cash and cash equivalents 10 Business combinations 10 At 31 March 1 11 At 31 March 2010 available-for-sale financial assets primarily comprised cash held as collateral and equity investments 31 March 2009 cash held as collateral and equity investments.
These assets are measured at fair value based on observable market data.
During the year, the cash held as collateral was reclassified to cash as the collateral was no longer required.
20 Trade and other receivables 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Gross trade receivables 457 506 Valuation allowance 33 31 Net trade receivables 424 475 Other receivables 86 52 Prepayments and accrued income 177 156 Taxation and social security receivables 4 2 Trade and other receivables current 691 685 Other receivables 5 5 Prepayments and accrued income 19 21 Other receivables non-current 24 26 Total trade and other receivables 715 711 The maximum exposure to credit risk for receivables is equal to their carrying value.
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other receivables presented.
Concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade receivables are small as the Group customer base is large and unrelated.
Receivables predominantly relate to Governments and corporate entities as well as other telecoms operators.
Credit risk procedures vary depending on the size or type of customer.
These procedures include such activities as credit checks, payment history analysis and credit approval limits.
Based on these procedures, management assessed the credit quality of those receivables that are neither past due nor impaired as low risk.
There have been no significant changes to the composition of receivables counterparties within the Group that indicate this would change in the future.
There has been an economic downturn in markets in which the Group operates.
This would indicate an increased credit risk on receivables that are neither past due nor impaired.
However, management have assessed this risk and, after providing additional valuation allowance where necessary, continue to support the assessment of credit quality as low risk.
86 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 20 Trade and other receivables continued An ageing analysis of the current net trade and other receivables that are not impaired is as follows: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Trade Trade and other and other receivables Total trade receivables Total trade excluding Interconnect and other excluding Interconnect and other interconnect receivables receivables interconnect receivables receivables m m m m m m Not yet due 230 89 319 179 76 255 Overdue 30 days or less 34 11 45 52 27 79 Overdue 31 to 60 days 12 9 21 20 4 24 Overdue 61 to 90 days 10 6 16 11 9 20 Overdue 91 days to 180 days 9 26 35 18 29 47 Overdue 181 days or more 4 70 74 102 102 Current net trade and other receivables 299 211 510 280 247 527 Due to the nature of the telecommunications industry, balances relating to interconnection with other carriers often have lengthy settlement periods.
Generally, interconnection agreements with major carriers result in receivables and payables balances with the same counterparty.
Industry practice is that receivable and payable amounts relating to interconnection revenue and costs for a defined period are agreed between counterparties and settled on a net basis.
Included within trade and other receivables are amounts relating to interconnection with other carriers of 211 million 31 March 2009 247 million.
In most circumstances, the Group also has a corresponding payable to the receivable counterparty.
An analysis of movements in the trade receivables valuation allowance for the period is as follows: 2009 10 2008 09 m m At 1 April 31 40 Bad debts written off 13 9 Increase decrease in allowance 15 1 Exchange differences 1 At 31 March 33 31 All trade transactions with joint ventures arose in the normal course of business and primarily related to fees for use of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Groups products and services, network and access charges.
There were no material transactions with joint ventures during the year ended 31 March 2010.
21 Inventories Inventories represent equipment, consumables and accessories held for sale.
It also includes capacity on sub-sea cable systems currently in the course of construction and held for resale of 15 million 2008 09 - nil.
Inventories of 17 million 31 March 2009 3 million are presented net of an allowance of nil 31 March 2009 2 million made against slow moving or obsolete items.
The cost of equipment, consumables and accessories held for sale that were expensed within operating costs in 2009 10 was 11 million 2008 09 6 million.
22 Cash and cash equivalents 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Cash at bank and in hand 51 74 Short-term deposits 175 70 Cash and cash equivalents 226 144 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 87 Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank, short-term bank deposits and money market funds.
Short-term bank deposits consist primarily of money market deposits, which can be readily converted to cash at short notice.
The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits at 31 March 2010 was 0.37% 31 March 2009 0.45%.
At 31 March 2010 these deposits had an average maturity of 15 days 31 March 2009 5 days.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for cash and cash equivalents is equal to the carrying value.
23 Trade and other payables 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Trade payables 398 438 Other taxation and social security costs 58 36 Accruals 236 308 Deferred income 317 289 Other payables 4 20 Trade and other payables current 1,013 1,091 Accruals 6 Other payables 1 Trade and other payables non-current 1 6 Total trade and other payables 1,014 1,097 There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other payables presented.
24 Loans and obligations under finance leases 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Loans Sterling 200 million revolving credit facility repaid in 2010 95 Sterling 230 million convertible bonds due 2014 204 US dollar loans repayable at various dates up to 2010 7 8 Other currency loans repayable at various dates up to 2010 3 3 214 106 Loans current 10 8 Loans non-current 204 98 Finance leases Obligations under finance leases 32 22 Obligations under finance leases current 15 10 Obligations under finance leases non-current 17 12 Loans and obligations under finance leases current 25 18 Loans and obligations under finance leases non-current 221 110 There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of loans and obligations under finance leases presented.
88 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 24 Loans and obligations under finance leases continued Loans The contractual cash flow profile of loans including interest payable at rates prevailing at the reporting date is as follows: 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Loans Due in less than one year 31 9 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 22 14 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 278 106 Total loans 331 129 Less future finance charges on loans 117 23 Total loans 214 106 Sterling revolving credit facilities The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Sterling 200 million revolving credit facility 99 million drawn down at 31 March 2009, 95 million net of directly attributable costs was repaid during the year.
During the year, the Group obtained a Sterling 300 million revolving credit facility repayable in 2013 of which nil was drawn down at 31 March 2010.
Up to 100 million of this facility may be utilised by letters of credit to the benefit of the trustees of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Retirement Plan see note 29.
The facility also contemplates that the Group may enter into permitted bilateral facilities with the lenders of up to 75 million, subject to certain conditions.
The facility is secured by way of guarantee from Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc and other Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group companies and security over assets of Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
Convertible bonds The convertible bonds due in 2014 of 230 million were issued by Cable and Wireless plc on 24 November 2009.
These bonds were subsequently transferred to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc on 19 March 2010 before being transferred to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc the ultimate parent of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group on 26 March 2010 as part of the demerger.
The convertible bonds were separated into their loan and equity components being 208 million of loan and 22 million of equity.
Directly attributable transaction costs of 4 million were capitalised against the loan component as part of this transaction.
Each bond entitles the holder to convert the amount of such bond into fully paid ordinary shares of 5 pence each at a rate of 90,090 shares for each 100,000 held at an initial conversion price of 111 pence per ordinary share.
Unless previously redeemed, converted or purchased and cancelled, the convertible bonds will be redeemed on 24 November 2014 at their principal amount.
The bonds carry a coupon of 5.75% per annum payable semi-annually in arrears with the exception of a long first coupon in June 2010 and a short last coupon on the maturity date.
The convertible bonds are senior debt obligations.
They contain a negative pledge which provides that, so long as any of the convertible bonds remain outstanding, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc and its principal subsidiaries will not create or permit to subsist security upon their respective assets to secure, guarantee or indemnify any other debt instruments which are listed or capable of being listed.
US dollar and other currency loans The US dollar loan is secured by way of a guarantee from Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc and other Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group companies.
The other currency loan is secured over assets and receivables of Cable & Wireless Networks India Private Ltd. Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 89 Obligations under finance leases The repayment profile of obligations and the present value of future minimum finance lease repayments under non-cancellable finance lease agreements is as follows: Net finance lease Minimum finance liabilities lease payments 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Due in less than one year 15 10 16 11 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 10 7 11 7 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 5 3 7 3 Due in more than five years 2 2 2 2 Total 32 22 36 23 Less future finance charges on finance leases 4 1 Present value of finance lease liabilities 32 22 Interest rates Interest is payable on loans and obligations under finance leases falling due after more than five years at a rate of 10%.
The weighted average effective interest rates at the reporting date were as follows: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Interest Interest Type Currency rate Currency rate % % Sterling secured 300 million facility repayable in 2013 Floating GBP 4.0 Sterling secured 200 million facility repaid in 2010 Floating GBP 4.0 Convertible bonds repayable in 2014 Fixed GBP 5.8 US dollar loans repayable at various dates up to 2010 Floating USD 3.6 USD 3.6 Other currency loans repayable at various dates up to 2010 Floating Other 3.9 Other 5.7 Obligations under finance leases Fixed GBP 6.7 GBP 7.1 25 Financial liabilities at fair value At 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009, the Group had a liability of 1 million relating to a put option in respect of a subsidiary, Cable & Wireless Networks India Private Ltd. 26 Financial instruments The fair value hierarchy for instruments measured at fair value is as follows: At 31 March 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Note m m m m Assets measured at fair value: Equity investments 19 1 1 Liabilities measured at fair value: Put option relating to Cable & Wireless Networks India Private Ltd 25 1 1 Level 1- Fair values measured using quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 - Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 - Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
90 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 27 Deferred tax The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are as follows: Capital allowances on Financial non-current position assets Tax losses Pensions Other offset Total m m m m m m Deferred tax assets 19 2 1 5 17 Deferred tax liabilities 1 1 3 5 At 1 April 2008 18 2 3 17 Amounts credited to the income statement 34 2 1 37 At 31 March 2009 52 4 2 54 Deferred tax assets 55 4 5 54 Deferred tax liabilities 3 2 5 At 31 March 2009 52 4 2 54 Amounts credited charged to the income statement 95 1 2 96 At 31 March 2010 147 3 150 Deferred tax assets 150 3 3 150 Deferred tax liabilities 3 3 At 31 March 2010 147 3 150 The expected utilisation of deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 March 2010 is as follows: Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m Within one year 18 2 1 2 After one year 135 57 2 3 153 59 3 5 Offset 3 5 3 5 Total 150 54 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following temporary differences gross : Capital allowances available on non-current assets Tax losses Pensions Other Total m m m m m As at 31 March 2009 3,753 18,126 13 57 21,949 As at 31 March 2010 3,546 21,537 167 190 25,440 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 91 Tax losses recognised and unrecognised expire as follows: 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Within 1 year 8 13 Within 3 years 5 13 Within 5 years 5 15 Within 10 years 88 81 After more than 10 years 11 48 Other tax losses are not subject to expiry.
The 21,537 million 31 March 2009 - 18,126 million gross losses include a UK capital loss of 5,197 million 31 March 2009 - 5,192 million.
Other losses principally arose in overseas holding companies of 15,547 million 31 March 2009 - 12,096 million in which the opportunity to realise benefits therefrom is considered remote and in overseas trading companies of 695 million 31 March 2009 - 736 million where no deferred tax asset is recognised due to uncertainty as to the availability of future taxable profits.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and branches where the Group controls the timing of remittance and remittance is not contemplated, and for those interests in joint ventures where it has been determined that no additional tax will arise.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments where no deferred tax liability is recognised is nil 31 March 2009 - nil.
Following the change in the UK tax treatment of dividends on 1 July 2009, no tax is expected to arise on distributions from group entities and no temporary difference exists, except where withholding tax or other foreign tax could arise on the remittance.
28 Provisions 2009 10 2008 09 Network Network and asset and asset Redundancy retirement Redundancy retirement Property costs obligations Other Total Property costs obligations Other Total m m m m m m m m m m At 1 April 68 7 112 12 199 61 5 64 11 141 Additions from business combinations 7 7 1 34 1 36 Additional provisions 15 16 5 43 79 31 23 25 17 96 Amounts used 15 15 8 32 70 16 19 11 17 63 Unused amounts reversed 8 2 7 17 14 2 6 22 Effect of discounting 4 1 5 3 6 9 Exchange differences 2 2 At 31 March 71 6 110 16 203 68 7 112 12 199 Provisions current 16 6 5 16 43 16 7 8 12 43 Provisions non-current 55 105 160 52 104 156 Property Provision has been made for the lower of the best estimate of the unavoidable lease payments or cost of exit in respect of vacant properties.
Unavoidable lease payments represent the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties being sublet.
The provision is expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
This is expected to occur within the next 20 years.
Property provisions released during the year were as a result of the sub-letting of previously vacant properties or lease exits where dilapidations and other exit costs were less than previously provided for.
Redundancy In the periods presented, redundancy provisions included the total employee related costs of redundancies announced prior to the reporting date.
Amounts provided for and spent during the periods primarily related to the restructuring of the Groups business subsequent to the acquisition of THUS Group plc in October 2008.
The provision is expected to be used within one year.
92 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 28 Provisions continued Network and asset retirement obligations In the periods presented, provision was made for the best estimate of the unavoidable costs associated with redundant leased network capacity.
These provisions are expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Provision was also made for the best estimate of the asset retirement obligation associated with office sites, technical sites, domestic and sub-sea cabling.
This provision was expected to be used at the end of the life of the related asset on which the obligation arose.
Amounts utilised in the periods presented related predominantly to cash expenditure against unavoidable costs associated with redundant network capacity.
Other Other provisions included the costs of integration of the THUS Group, business transformation initiatives and specific legal claims against the Group.
29 Retirement benefits obligations The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group operates pension schemes for its current and former UK and overseas employees.
These schemes include both defined benefit schemes, where retirement benefits are based on employees remuneration and length of service, and defined contribution schemes, where retirement benefits reflect the accumulated value of agreed contributions paid by, and in respect of, employees.
Contributions to the defined benefit schemes are made in accordance with recommendations from independent actuaries who value the schemes.
Demerger Prior to demerger, a number of the Groups current and former employees participated in the defined benefit portion of the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund CWSF, operated by the Cable & Wireless Group now Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
Amounts related to the defined benefit net expense or credit in the CWSF prior to the transfer were recharged to the Group by the Cable & Wireless Communications Group as Cable&Wireless Worldwide did not have a legal obligation to the CWSF for these amounts.
These amounts have been recorded as though they were defined contribution expenses.
As a result of the demerger see note 4, a portion of the assets and pension obligations of the CWSF were transferred to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Retirement Plan CWWRP, a new plan operated by the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
The obligations transferred to the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group were determined based on members last known employer.
The plan assets to be transferred to the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group will be determined by reference to the obligations transferred.
Under IAS 19, this results in defined benefit plan assets of 1.2 billion and defined benefit pension obligations of 1.3 billion being transferred to the Group on 26 March 2010.
Due to the timing of this transfer, no information regarding movements in the CWWRP from 26 March 2010 to 31 March 2010 has been presented as this does not result in material or useful information.
Similarly, no comparative information has been presented.
Defined contribution schemes The pension cost for the year for the Group schemes accounted for on a defined contribution basis was 18 million 2008 09 2 million.
Of this amount, a net expense of 4 million 2008 09 net credit of 10 million related to expenses and credits recognised in respect of management charges as a result of membership of the CWSF allocated historically to the Group.
A further 14 million expense 2008 09 12 million expense represented other defined contributions made in respect of Cable&Wireless Worldwide members of the CWSF.
The pre-exceptional defined contribution pension cost has been included in employee benefit expenses note 9.
Defined benefit schemes As part of the demerger, Cable&Wireless Worldwide established the CWWRP to administer the plan assets and pension obligations transferred to the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group from the CWSF.
This plan provides defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements for current and former employees of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
These arrangements are provided on the same basis as under the CWSF, operated by the Cable & Wireless Group now Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
The CWRRP has been closed to new defined benefit members since its inception in 2010.
No new defined benefit members have entered the CWSF since 1998.
The assets of the CWWRP include an appropriate share of the bulk annuity policy that was purchased by the Trustee of the CWSF in 2008 09.
These annuity policies are treated as pension assets and match the respective pensioner obligations which have been transferred to the CWWRP.
The terms of the CWWRP Trust Deed allow the Trustee or the Company to call for a valuation at any time.
The first funding valuation of the CWWRP is due to take place in 2010 11.
In the meantime, the Group will make contributions to the CWWRP at the rate of 28.5% of pensionable earnings which applied in the CWSF prior to demerger.
The contribution rate includes an allowance of 3% of pensionable earnings for administration expenses, excluding the Pension Protection Fund PPF levy.
The PPF levy for 2009 10 was 0.3 million.
The Group therefore paid a total contribution rate of 28.5% towards the CWSF in respect of its current and former employees in 2009 10, or 9.4 million.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 93 In July 2009, an interim funding agreement was reached with the CWSF Trustee whereby additional contributions were to be paid to the CWSF in anticipation of the 31 March 2010 actuarial valuation.
This agreement was replaced with two interim funding agreements, one for CWSF and one for CWWRP, on demerger.
As a result, the Group will pay 11 million into the CWWRP in October 2010 and a further 25 million in April 2011.
In addition, the Group made a 5 million cash contribution to the CWWRP on 31 March 2010.
A 100 million contingent funding agreement was agreed with the CWWRP Trustee in connection with the demerger, under which the Trustee can call for a letter of credit or cash escrow in certain circumstances, such as material deterioration in the financial performance of the business.
Other schemes The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group operates the THUS Group plc Pension Scheme.
An independent actuarial valuation of the THUS Group plc Pension Scheme carried out with an effective date of 31 December 2008 showed a deficit of 2 million on a funding basis.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide made a one-off 1 million contribution on 31 March 2010 in order to fully fund this scheme on an ongoing basis.
The Group also operates defined benefit arrangements in Hong Kong and Ireland, unfunded liabilities in the UK relating to pension provision for former directors and other senior employees in respect of their earnings in excess of the previous Inland Revenue salary cap, and other small defined benefit and defined contribution pension arrangements in the UK.
IAS 19 valuation Cable & Wireless Worldwide Retirement Plan CWWRP and other schemes IAS 19 valuations of the defined benefit pension schemes operated by the Group have been updated to 31 March 2010 by qualified independent actuaries.
Lane Clark & Peacock LLP prepared the valuation for the CWWRP and unfunded arrangements in the UK.
Towers Watson & Co prepared the valuation for the THUS Group scheme, and reviewed the IAS 19 valuations prepared for all other schemes.
The main financial assumptions applied and an analysis of the schemes assets at 31 March 2010 are as follows: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Other Other CWWRP schemes schemes Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Assets Assumption m % m % m % Inflation assumption 3.6 3.2 2.3 Salary increases 4.1 4.1 4.0 Pension increases 2.3 3.5 3.4 3.0 Discount rate 5.5 5.4 5.7 Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets Annuity policies 332 5.5 Equities 510 8.3 73 7.8 54 7.5 Bonds and gilts 115 5.4 53 5.1 40 4.7 Property 69 6.8 6.8 Cash and swaps 170 3.9 4 4.0 2 3.0 1,196 130 96 The assumptions regarding mortality rates in retirement for the CWWRP include allowances for future mortality, improvements in line with medium cohort projections of the 1992 mortality series tables published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, subject to a minimum annual rate of improvement of 1.5%.
These are the mortality rates used for calculating the defined benefit obligation in the statement of financial position for the year ended 31 March 2010.
Based on these assumptions, the life expectancy of pensioners aged 60 are as follows: On 31 On 31 On 31 March March March 2010 2020 2030 years years years Male 27.8 29.3 30.8 Female 29.1 30.7 32.3 Assumptions used are best estimates from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The assumptions shown above for Other schemes represent a weighted average of the assumptions used for the individual schemes.
94 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 29 Retirement benefits obligations continued A one year increase in the life expectancy assumptions would have increased the CWWRP liabilities by approximately 31 million as at 31 March 2010.
The corresponding increase in the value of assets due to the change in the estimated value of the annuity policy is 8 million.
A 0.25% pa decrease in the discount rate used to value the scheme liabilities would have increased the liabilities by around 77 million.
The corresponding increase in the value of assets due to the change in the estimated value of the annuity policy is 13 million.
A 0.25% pa change in the assumed rate of salary increases would have changed the liabilities by around 5 million.
Excluding the annuities, which are measured at the value of the obligation to which they relate, the overall expected rate of return for each pension scheme is a weighted average of the expected asset return for each asset class.
The expected asset return for each asset class has been set as a best estimate of the long-term return that will be achieved for the particular asset class in the country in question having regard to investment yields on the measurement date.
The CWWRP is closed to new entrants.
Under the projected unit credit method used for the valuation of liabilities, the current service cost is expected to increase when expressed as a percentage of pensionable payroll as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
The assets and liabilities of the defined benefit pension schemes operated by the Group are presented below: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Other Other CWWRP schemes Total schemes m m m m Total fair value of plan assets 1,196 130 1,326 96 Present value of funded obligations 1,332 159 1,491 110 Excess of liabilities for funded obligations 136 29 165 14 Present value of unfunded obligations 2 2 Net deficit 136 31 167 14 Liabilities Defined benefit pension plans in deficit 136 31 167 14 Assets Defined benefit pension plans in surplus Included within the Other schemes liabilities is an amount of nil 2008 09 - nil to cover the cost of former Directors pension entitlements.
When defined benefit funds have an IAS 19 surplus, they are recorded at the lower of that surplus and the future economic benefits available in the form of a cash refund or a reduction in future contributions.
In addition, the Group may be required to recognise an additional liability to the extent that it is committed to a funding plan which may in the future push the scheme into an irrecoverable surplus.
The effect of these adjustments described as asset ceiling adjustments was nil as at 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009.
The amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of defined benefit schemes are as follows.
Due to the timing of the transfer, no information regarding movements in the CWWRP from 26 March 2010 to 31 March 2010 has been presented.
2009 10 2008 09 Other Other CWWRP schemes Total schemes m m m m Current service cost 3 3 2 Interest cost 7 7 4 Past service cost on demerger 141 2 143 Expected return on plan assets 6 6 4 Losses on curtailment or settlement excluding demerger 5 Total net expense 141 6 147 7 The pre-exceptional defined benefit expense has been included in employee benefit expenses note 9.
The actual return on the other scheme defined benefit plan assets was a gain of 31 million 2008 09 loss of 4 million.
The main factor in this increase is the experience gains which arose from an increase in asset values in the period due to improving financial market conditions.
The initial recognition of the CWWRP has been recorded as a past service cost of 141 million and treated as an exceptional item see note 6.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 95 This amount equates to the difference between the estimated IAS 19 value of the plan assets and pension obligations transferred as part of the demerger.
It is recognised as a past service cost since this obligation relates entirely to service periods prior to the transfer to the CWWRP.
The total amount recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the current financial year and cumulatively to 31 March 2010 was a loss of 20 million 2008 09 loss of 7 million and loss of 36 million 2008 09 loss of 16 million respectively.
Changes in the fair value of defined benefit assets were as follows: 2009 10 2008 09 CWWRP Other Total Other m m m m Fair value of assets as at 1 April 96 96 29 Expected return 6 6 4 Actuarial gains losses recognised in equity 25 25 8 Contributions by employer 5 7 12 3 Employee contributions 1 1 1 Assets acquired 63 Assets transferred on demerger note 4 1,191 1,191 Benefits paid 4 4 2 Exchange differences on foreign plans 1 1 6 Fair value of assets as at 31 March 1,196 130 1,326 96 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows: 2009 10 2008 09 CWWRP Other Total Other m m m m Obligation at 1 April 110 110 32 Current service cost 3 3 2 Interest cost 7 7 4 Actuarial losses gains recognised in equity 45 45 1 Employee contributions 1 1 1 Obligations acquired 63 Obligations transferred on demerger note 4 1,332 2 1,334 Settlements curtailments 6 Benefits paid 4 4 3 Exchange differences on foreign plans 3 3 6 Obligation at 31 March 1,332 161 1,493 110 Experience gains for the period are as follows: 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 CWWRP Other Other Other Other Other m m m m m m Plan assets 1,196 130 96 29 29 27 Defined benefit pension plan obligations 1,332 161 110 32 31 32 Deficit 136 31 14 3 2 5 Experience gains losses on plan assets 25 8 4 3 Experience gains on plan liabilities 3 2 96 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 29 Retirement benefits obligations continued The best estimate of defined benefit contributions for 2010 11 is: CWWRP Other Total m m m Employer contributions 21 6 27 Employee contributions 2 1 3 Based on an employer contribution rate of 28.5% of pensionable earnings plus contributions due under the interim funding agreement and the estimated PPF levy payable in the year ending 31 March 2010.
30 Share capital and other reserves The ultimate parent company of the Group, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, was incorporated on 24 September 2009.
As discussed in note 2.1, during the period Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc became the ultimate parent of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
This transaction has been accounted for using the principles of reverse acquisitions.
The main principles used in the presentation of share capital and other reserves for the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group were as follows: The equity instruments of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc were initially recognised at their fair value on the date of the demerger.
The movements in share capital prior to 26 March 2010 reflect the movements in the share capital of Cable & Wireless UK Holdings the former parent of the companies that form part of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
However, share capital for these prior year share issues has been restated using the nominal value of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares at 5 pence each in order to present the movements as though the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group had been in existence in its current form since 1 April 2008.
The difference arising on this restatement has been included in the share premium.
Any difference between the fair value of these instruments on the date of the demerger and the historical cost of the instruments on issue in Cable & Wireless UK Holdings were recorded in retained earnings.
See note 10 to the financial statements of the Company for further information on the shares issued by the Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc since its incorporation.
Number of shares m Issued, called-up and fully paid ordinary shares of 5 pence each At 1 April 2008 2,539,624,386 127 Issued under recapitalisation 83,947,638 4 At 31 March 2009 2,623,572,024 131 Issued under recapitalisation 1,000,000 At 31 March 2010 2,624,572,024 131 The Company did not repurchase any shares in 2008 09 or 2009 10.
The Company did not have any Treasury shares outstanding during the year 2008 09 - nil.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, each share other than those held in treasury entitles the holder to one vote at General Meetings of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc.
The Companys shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution but the payment cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
There are no restrictions on the repayment of capital other than those imposed by law.
For further information refer to pages 37 to 38 of the Directors report.
On 26 March 2010 Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc issued 2,624,572,024 ordinary shares of 5 pence each receiving in consideration the business and brand of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide business.
This resulted in share capital of 131 million and share premium of 2,527 million net of issue costs of 14 million.
On 29 March a court approved reduction in share capital took place reducing the share premium balance to 56 million.
The Group defines capital as share capital, share premium, other reserves including capital reserve, fair value reserve and foreign currency translation reserve and retained earnings.
It does not have any externally imposed requirements for managing capital, other than those imposed by company law.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 97 The Group manages its net assets in such a way as to optimise the weighted average cost of debt and equity taking into account: a the liquidity required in the light of the projected funding requirements of the Groups operating businesses with an appropriate level of contingency: b the level of financial strength required to maintain the Groups terms of trade taking account of its operational cash generation: c the relative post-tax cost of debt and equity: and d the extent to which external debt finance is, or is likely to be, available to the Group on acceptable terms.
The Articles of Association of the Company permit borrowing up to three times the adjusted capital and reserves of the Group.
The Group ensures that sufficient funds and distributable reserves are held to allow payments of projected dividends to shareholders.
This process is managed through the Groups budget and longer term forecasting process.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve contains exchange differences on the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency different to the presentation currency of the Group.
31 Share-based payments Prior to the demerger, a number of Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group employees participated in share-based payment schemes of the Cable & Wireless Group now Cable & Wireless Communications Group, an unrelated company.
As part of the demerger, the majority of these schemes were rolled over into Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group equivalent share-based payment schemes.
Awards made prior to demerger were granted over Cable and Wireless plc shares.
Therefore, some of the information relating to these awards may not be comparable.
Share option schemes The Group does not currently have any outstanding share option awards over its own shares 2008 09 - nil.
There are 1,573,793 outstanding share option awards relating to options granted by Cable and Wireless plc to senior Cable&Wireless Worldwide employees prior to demerger which the Group is obliged to settle.
These options were originally issued over Cable and Wireless plc shares at exercise prices between 100-149 pence 1,285,941 options and 150-199 pence 287,852 options.
All options have vested in full.
Post-demerger, these options have been redesignated as an option over a stapled unit of one share in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc and one share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc an unrelated company.
The liability for these stapled unit options is classified as an other payable and amounts to nil million.
Other equity instrument awards Performance Share Plan PSP Under the PSP, Executive Directors and other senior executives can receive awards of performance shares at nil cost.
The vesting of performance shares is subject to relative Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc TSR performance conditions see performance conditions for share-based awards on pages 46 and 47.
A dividend award supplement operates on the PSP.
Dividends that would have been paid on the performance shares which vest will be regarded as having been re-invested in additional shares.
Prior to demerger, PSP awards by Cable&Wireless Worldwide employees were subject to relative TSR performance of Cable and Wireless plc.
Post-demerger, these have been adjusted to be an award over Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc ordinary shares of an equivalent value.
TSR is the main performance measure used in share plans where performance conditions apply as it provides an objective external measure of financial performance.
The Remuneration Committee will also consider the underlying financial performance of the Company at the end of the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee considers that it is important to measure and reward relative performance against an appropriate set of companies.
The Companys relative TSR performance is assessed against a comparative group comprising the FTSE Global Telecoms Sector Index FTSE GTSI, which provides a global benchmark of independently selected industry peers.
Awards vest depending upon the Companys TSR ranking relative to the comparative group at the end of a single three year performance period.
Restricted share plan RSP The RSP provides for awards of restricted shares to Executive Directors and selected employees, primarily as a retention or a recruitment tool.
Generally, restricted shares awarded under this plan vest over periods of one to three years.
Restricted shares are also used to award matching shares with performance conditions to Executive Directors who invested their own funds into Company shares.
Attainment of these matching shares is dependent on the Executive Director continuing to hold the invested shares and on meeting the required TSR performance conditions if applicable.
100% of any shares awarded under this plan vest after three years.
98 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 31 Share-based payments continued Prior to demerger, RSP awards held by Cable&Wireless Worldwide employees were made in respect of shares in Cable and Wireless plc.
Postdemerger, these awards have been adjusted to be an award over Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc ordinary shares of an equivalent value.
Stock appreciation rights plan SARs The SARs plan is used to replicate exactly the plans described above, but rewards are delivered as a cash equivalent.
It is used in exceptional cases for countries in which tax or legal issues preclude the use of real shares or share options.
Cable & Wireless Worldwide Share purchase plan SPP The Company also offers its employees, who are chargeable to income tax under Section 15 Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003, the Cable&Wireless Worldwide share purchase plan which is a Revenue approved share incentive plan.
Under the SPP, employees can contribute up to a value of 1,500 or 10% of salary each tax year whichever is the lower, to buy partnership shares in the Company, and the Company will offer a match of one share for each partnership share purchased.
Share awards The equity instrument awards of the Group can be summarised as follows: Awards granted to employees of Cable&Wireless Worldwide during 2009 10 and 2008 09 Awards of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares Awards of Cable and Wireless plc shares Awards of Cable and Wireless plc shares granted between 26 March 2010 and 31 March 2010 granted between 1 April 2009 and 26 March 2010 granted during 2008 09 Weighted Weighted Weighted average Features average Features average Features fair value incorporated fair value incorporated fair value incorporated Award Shares pence share schemes Shares pence share in schemes Shares pence share in schemes PSP 11,685,032 70 TSR RSP 1,916,304 86 434,488 129 581,059 150 SARs 589,039 142 479,406 136 SPP scheme matching shares 1,709,051 140 1,306,472 156 The Monte Carlo pricing model assumptions used in the pricing of the PSP grants based on Cable and Wireless plc shares in 2009 10 and 2008 09 were: 2009 10 2008 09 Weighted average share price pence per share 140 142 Dividend yield 6.2% 5.5% Expected volatility 33.2% 31.0% Risk-free interest rates 1.8% 3.0% Expected life in years 2.9 years 3 years A summary of the outstanding share awards at 31 March 2010 is as follows: 31 March 2010 Weighted Weighted average Number of average remaining life shares fair value rounded to 1 Award outstanding pence share nearest year PSP 18,427,248 70 3 RSP 2,191,054 86 1 SARs 867,684 92 2 1 The fair value of share awards made in respect of shares in Cable and Wireless plc has been adjusted in line with the conversion of share awards into Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc awards.
This adjustment was based on the proportion of value of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc to the combined value of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc and Cable & Wireless Communications Plc for the five trading days post-demerger.
The total expense relating to share-based payments which are equity settled transactions was 8 million 2008 09 6 million.
In 2009 10, this expense included 3 million related to early vesting of share purchase plan awards on demerger, which is shown in exceptional items in note 6.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 99 32 Reconciliation of net funds Funds are defined as cash at bank and in hand, money market funds and short-term deposits.
Debt is defined as loans, bonds and finance lease obligations.
A reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds is as follows: 2009 10 2008 09 m m Increase in cash during the year 79 123 Increase decrease in debt and lease financing 97 25 Cash outflow inflow in net funds 18 148 Finance leases entered into during the year 21 12 Net debt of businesses acquired 119 Exchange differences 3 1 Movement in net funds in the year 36 16 Net funds at 1 April 16 Net debt funds at 31 March 20 16 Analysis of changes in net funds: Finance leases entered At 1 April into during Exchange At 31 March 2009 Cash flow the year movements 2010 m m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 74 26 3 51 Short-term deposits 70 105 175 Cash and cash equivalents 144 79 3 226 Debt due within one year 18 1 8 25 Debt due after one year 110 98 13 221 Total debt 128 97 21 246 Total net funds 16 18 21 3 20 33 Commitments, guarantees and contingent liabilities Commitments The Group had capital commitments at the end of the financial year relating to the purchase of plant and equipment of 118 million 31 March 2009 86 million.
No provision has been made for these commitments.
In addition, the Group has a number of operating commitments arising in the ordinary course of the Groups business.
The most significant of these relate to network operating and maintenance costs.
In the event of default of another party, the Group may be liable to additional contributions under the terms of the agreements.
The Group leases land and buildings and networks under various lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalations, clauses and renewal rights.
The operating lease expenditure related to the year ended 31 March 2010 is disclosed in note 6.
The aggregate future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are: 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m No later than one year 121 114 Later than one year but not later than five years 198 230 Later than five years 263 209 Total minimum operating lease payments 582 553 100 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Guarantees and contingent liabilities Guarantees at the end of the financial year for which no provision has been made in the financial statements are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Trading guarantees 513 400 Other guarantees 59 73 Total guarantees 572 473 Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds for contracts concluded in the normal course of business, guaranteeing that the Group will meet its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions.
The nature of contracts includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of materials.
The guarantees expire either following the completion of the relevant guaranteed obligations or following the expiry of the relevant contract.
Historically, Cable and Wireless plc provided guarantees to third parties in respect of trading contracts between these third parties and the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
At 31 March 2010, these guarantees amounted to 378 million 31 March 2009 462 million and are included in the table above.
The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group has agreed a fee schedule with the Cable & Wireless Communications Group for the benefit of these guarantees post-demerger.
Further, the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group has indemnified the Cable & Wireless Communications Group for these guarantees.
Other guarantees include guarantees for financial obligations principally in respect of borrowings, property and other leases and letters of credit.
34 Business combinations and acquisitions of non-controlling interests There were no subsidiaries acquired during 2009 10.
THUS Group On 1 October 2008, Cable & Wireless obtained control of THUS Group plc THUS Group for a total consideration of 343 million.
The consideration comprised 336 million to acquire the entire share capital of THUS Group and 7 million of direct costs.
The acquisition is summarised below: Provisional amounts at Final amounts at 31 March 2009 30 September 2009 m m Consideration paid 343 343 Goodwill arising on acquisition 341 358 Fair value of net assets acquired 2 15 Cash outflows on acquisition 343 343 Less: cash acquired 13 13 Net cash outflow on acquisition 330 330 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 101 The Directors made a provisional assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities at 31 March 2009.
This assessment was updated at 30 September 2009 to adjust for new information regarding the previously assessed balances.
The fair values, both provisional and final, were as follows: Provisional Adjusted fair Alignment of fair value at value at accounting Fair value 31 March 30 September Book value policy adjustments 2009 Adjustments 2009 m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 282 80 202 202 Purchased goodwill 50 50 - Customer contracts and relationships 15 15 15 Trademarks and other intangibles 8 3 5 5 Trade and other receivables 130 5 29 106 4 102 Inventories 7 7 Deferred tax 56 56 Defined benefit pension scheme 4 4 Cash and cash equivalents 13 13 13 Available-for-sale financial assets 10 10 10 Trade and other payables 111 64 28 203 6 209 Loans and other borrowings 113 113 113 Provisions 33 33 7 40 Total 336 152 182 2 17 15 Goodwill arising on the acquisition of THUS Group included the value of expected synergies resulting from the integration into the existing Cable&Wireless Worldwide business, the value of the workforce and other intangible assets that did not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets as they were unable to be separately identified.
In 2008 09, THUS Group contributed 237 million to Group revenue and a loss of 17 million to Group profit from the date of acquisition.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2008 the contribution to Group revenue would have been 518 million and the contribution to Group profit would have been a loss of 34 million.
Apollo On 1 April 2008 the Group gained full management control of Apollo Cable Submarine Systems Limited Apollo which was previously accounted for as a joint venture.
Goodwill arising on this business combination amounted to 9 million.
The net liabilities acquired were 9 million including 4 million of cash and cash equivalents.
In 2008 09, Apollo contributed 7 million to revenue and nil to profit after tax.
On 13 November 2008 the Group increased its effective interest in Apollo from 55% to 60% for consideration of nil.
This transaction resulted in nil of minority interest transferred to retained earnings and a nil increase in other reserves.
35 Related party transactions Transactions with the Cable & Wireless Communications Group prior to demerger Cable & Wireless Communications Group companies were related parties of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group and its subsidiaries as they were wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Cable & Wireless Group.
The following sales and purchases and respective balances have arisen from transactions between the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group and Cable & Wireless Communications Group companies.
2009 10 2008 09 m m Sales to Cable & Wireless Communications Group companies 8 7 Purchases from Cable & Wireless Communications Group companies 6 6 Management charge credit for the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund pension plan 4 10 Interest on funding balance with the Cable & Wireless Communications Group 14 74 31 March 31 March 2010 2009 m m Trade payables with Cable & Wireless Communications Group companies 3 3 Other receivables with Cable & Wireless Communications Group companies 79 37 Funding loan with the Cable & Wireless Communications Group 976 102 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Other receivables relates to an amount of 79 million that was received from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group on 1 April 2010 to settle the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Groups portion of the 2009 10 final dividend of the former Cable & Wireless Group.
In accordance with the demerger terms, Cable & Wireless Communications Group has agreed to transfer 22 million shares held by the Cable&Wireless Employee Share Ownership Trust to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Employee Share Ownership Trust.
This transfer will occur in May 2010.
The shares received will be included in equity.
On demerger, the Cable & Wireless brand was transferred to a joint venture entity owned by and for the continuing use of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group and the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
See note 36 for further information.
The Group has also provided indemnities to the Cable & Wireless Communications Group for trading guarantees.
See note 33 for further information.
Transactions with key management personnel There were no material transactions with key management personnel except for those relating to remuneration see notes 9 and 31, and shareholdings.
Transactions with other related parties There are no controlling shareholders of the Group.
There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Company.
Other than the parties disclosed above, the Group has no other material related parties.
36 Licences In a number of countries the Group holds licences to operate.
These licences take a variety of forms and their terms, rights and obligations vary significantly.
The Group assumes that it will renew licences as they expire.
Previous history indicates this is the most likely outcome.
There were no significant changes to the terms of the Groups licences and operating agreements in the periods presented.
On the demerger from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group, the Cable & Wireless brand was transferred to a joint venture entity owned by and for the continuing use of the Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable&Wireless Worldwide Groups.
As part of this transfer, Cable&Wireless Worldwide received a royalty free licence granting full rights to use the Cable & Wireless brand held by the joint venture in the Groups jurisdictions.
37 Legal proceedings and agreements In the ordinary course of business, the Group is involved in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and reviews.
The facts and circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated in determining whether it is more likely than not that there will be a future outflow of funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a specific case is necessary or sufficient.
Accordingly, significant management judgement relating to contingent liabilities is required since the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict.
The Group does not expect the ultimate resolution of the actions to which it is a party to have a significant adverse impact on the financial position of the Group.
Under the Separation Agreement, Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable&Wireless Worldwide also agree to provide each other with certain customary indemnities on a reciprocal basis in respect of liabilities which the Cable & Wireless Communications Group may incur but which relate exclusively to the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group and vice versa and in respect of an agreed proportion of liabilities which do not relate exclusively to one Group or the other.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 103 38 Subsidiaries and joint ventures The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the financial statements.
Voting rights and ownership Local percentage Class of Country of Nature of currency % shares incorporation business Subsidiaries Cable & Wireless U. K. GBP 100 Ordinary England Telecommunications Cable & Wireless UK Holdings Limited GBP 100 Ordinary England Holding company Cable & Wireless Europe Holdings Limited GBP 100 Ordinary England Holding company THUS Limited GBP 100 Ordinary England Telecommunications Cable & Wireless Global Network Limited GBP 100 Ordinary Ireland Telecommunications Joint venture Cable & Wireless Trade Mark Management Limited GBP 50 Ordinary England Brand management Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and trade investments will be attached to the Companys Annual Return, to be filed with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
39 Financial risk management Treasury policy The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
Day to day management of treasury activities is delegated to Treasury, within specified financial limits for each type of transaction and counterparty.
To the extent that subsidiaries undertake treasury transactions, these are governed by Group policies and delegated authorities.
Material subsidiary positions are monitored by Treasury.
Where appropriate, transactions are reported to the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group Board.
The key responsibilities of Treasury include funding, investment of surplus cash and the management of interest rate and foreign currency risk.
The majority of the Groups cash resources and borrowings are managed centrally by Treasury.
The Group may, from time to time, use derivatives such as forward foreign exchange contracts in the management of its foreign currency and interest rate exposures.
The use of these instruments would be in accordance with strategies agreed from time to time by Treasury, subject to policies approved by the Board.
Derivatives are not used for trading or speculative purposes and all derivative transactions and positions are monitored and reported to the Board on a regular basis.
The Group currently does not hold any hedging instruments.
Exchange rate risk The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group trades in several countries, however, the majority of the Groups revenue is earned in Sterling.
The Groups main foreign currency exposure relates to movements in exchange rates for foreign currency receipts and payments.
Exchange risk is measured on the basis of net current or future foreign currency payments.
Where appropriate the Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis and uses forward foreign exchange contracts and other derivative instruments to reduce the exposures created where currencies do not naturally offset in the short-term.
The Group will undertake hedges to minimise the exposure to individual transactions that create significant foreign exchange exposures for the Group where appropriate.
The reported results of the Group are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.
The carrying amounts of the Groups cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial assets and borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Financial Financial assets Borrowings assets Borrowings m m m m Sterling 178 204 138 95 US dollar and currencies linked to the US dollar 31 7 1 8 Euro 10 8 Other currencies 8 3 8 3 227 214 155 106 104 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Interest rate risk At 31 March 2010 95% of the Groups borrowings were at a fixed rate.
A reduction in interest rates would have an unfavourable impact upon the fair value of the Groups fixed rate borrowings.
However, no debt is held for trading purposes and it is intended that it will be kept in place until maturity.
As a result, there is no exposure to fair value loss on fixed rate borrowings and, as such, it has not been modelled.
The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on its surplus cash balances.
The Treasury function may seek to reduce volatility by fixing a proportion of this interest rate exposure whilst taking account of prevailing market conditions as appropriate.
There were no interest rate derivatives in place as at 31 March 2010.
A one percentage point lowering of interest rates will have a 2 million impact on the income received from the surplus cash balances of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group and a nil impact on borrowings with floating interest rates.
The impact on equity is limited to the impact on the income statement.
Credit risk Cash deposits and similar financial instruments give rise to credit risk, which represents the loss that would be recognised if a counterparty failed to perform as contracted.
Management seeks to reduce this risk by ensuring the counterparties to all but a small proportion of the Groups financial instruments are entities rated A1 short-term and or AA or better long-term by Standard & Poors or equivalent by Moodys and or Fitch.
The credit rating of these counterparties is monitored on a continuing basis.
The types of instrument used for investment of funds are prescribed in Group treasury policies approved by the Board.
These policies contain limits on exposure to any one counterparty.
Credit risk on receivables is discussed in note 20.
Liquidity risk At 31 March 2010, the Group had cash and cash equivalents of 226 million.
These amounts are highly liquid and are a significant component of the Groups overall liquidity and capital resources.
An analysis of the maturity of Groups financial instruments is contained in notes 20 and 22 to 24.
Liquidity forecasts are produced on a regular basis to ensure the utilisation of current facilities is optimised, to ensure covenant compliance and that medium-term liquidity is maintained and for the purpose of identifying long-term strategic funding requirements.
The Directors also regularly assess the balance of capital and debt funding of the Group.
The majority of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Groups cash is held centrally and is predominantly invested in short-term bank deposits.
40 Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP items 2009 10 2008 09 m m Total operating loss profit 59 21 Depreciation and amortisation 268 212 LTIP charge 14 17 Net other operating expense 1 Exceptional items 207 76 EBITDA 431 326
