COMMUNICATING WITH SHAREHOLDERS Communicating with Shareholders Suggestions and Questions Any suggestions on how communications with shareholders can be improved are welcomed, so please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team and give them your suggestions.
They will also be very happy to answer questions that you may have, either about Monks or the plans described on page 48.
Literature in Alternative Formats It is possible to provide copies of the literature in alternative formats, such as large print or on audio tape.
Please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team for more information.
co. uk Client Relations Team Contact Details You can contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team by Trust magazine available at telephone, email, fax or post: www.
com Client Relations Team Trust Magazine Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited Calton Square Trust is the Baillie Gifford investment trust magazine which is 1 Greenside Row published three times a year.
It provides an insight to our investment EDINBURGH EH1 3AN approach by including interviews with our fund managers, as well as containing investment trust news, investment features and articles Tel: 0800 027 0133 about the trusts managed by Baillie Gifford, including Monks.
Trust We may record your call plays an important role in helping to explain our products so that E-mail: trustenquiries@bailliegifford.
com readers can really understand them.
For a copy of Trust, please Website: www.
com contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team.
Fax: 0131 275 3955 An online version of Trust can be found at www.
Please note that Baillie Gifford is not permitted to give financial Guides to Investment Trusts advice.
If you would like advice or if you have any questions Baillie Gifford has produced three educational guides on investment about the suitability of these plans for you, please ask an trusts.
The first Understanding Investment Trusts is designed to authorised intermediary.
explain how investment trusts work on a general level.
There is also a guide on Investing for children which explains how investment trusts can be used to invest on behalf of a child.
The third guide has been written by two of the UKs leading investment writers, it gives a detailed overview of emerging markets and explains the various ways you can invest in them.
If you would like copies of any of these guides, please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team.
Monks on the Web Up-to-date information about Monks, including a monthly commentary, recent portfolio information and performance figures, can be found on the Companys page of the Managers website at www.
You can also find a brief history of Monks, an explanation of the effects of gearing and a flexible performance reporting tool.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 49 Directors Registered Office Registrar Independent Auditors Chairman: Computershare Computershare  LLP JGD Ferguson Investor Services PLC Investor Services PLC Chartered Accountants and 2nd Floor PO Box 82 Statutory Auditors CC Ferguson Vintners Place The Pavilions Erskine House EM Harley 68 Upper Thames Street Bridgwater Road PO Box 90 DCP McDougall London EC4V 3BJ Bristol BS99 7NH 6873 Queen Street Tel: 0870 707 1170 Edinburgh EH2 4NH Company registration No.
236964 Managers and Secretaries Baillie Gifford & Co Calton Square 1 Greenside Row Edinburgh EH1 3AN Tel: 0131 275 2000 Website: www.
