C h a r i n g Whitehall C r Whitcomb St o s s Waterloo Pl Oxendon St Haymarket St Alban s St Regent St R d a o Northumberland Ave Cockspur Ct Cockspur St NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Piccadilly Notice of Annual General Meeting Circus Notice is hereby given that the eighty-first Annual General Meeting of The Monks Investment Trust PLC will be held at the Institute of Directors, 116 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5ED on Tuesday, 3 August Charing The National 2010, at 11.00 am for the following purposes: Cross Portrait Gallery The National Ordinary Business Gallery Charing To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as Institute Cross Trafalgar of Directors ordinary resolutions.
To receive and adopt the Financial Statements of the Company for Institute of the year to 30 April 2010 with the Reports of the Directors and of Contemporary the Independent Auditors thereon.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to 30 April 2010.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Institute of Directors, 4.
To re-elect Ms CC Ferguson as a Director.
116 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5ED on 3 August 2010 at 11.00 am.
To re-elect Mr DCP McDougall as a Director.
If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the meeting, please call us on 0800 027 0133.
To reappoint  LLP as Independent Auditors.
Baillie Gifford may record your call.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Independent Auditors.
d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the Company in general meeting, the authority hereby conferred To consider and, if thought fit, pass resolution 8 as a special shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting resolution: of the Company to be held in respect of the financial year 8.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, but without ending 30 April 2011, save that the Company may, prior to prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Shares under hereof, the Company be authorised, in accordance with section such authority which will or might be completed or executed 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to make market wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
of ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the Company Shares, provided that: By order of the Board BAILLIE GIFFORD & CO a the maximum aggregate number of Shares hereby authorised Managers and Secretaries to be purchased is being approximately 14.99% of the 30 June 2010 issued ordinary share capital on the date on which this resolution is passed: b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 5p exclusive of expenses : c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall not be more than the higher of: i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the London Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange: and THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 45 Duncannon St L e i c t S e e g n r S Charles II St Cha les II t a r O Pall Mall Strand s t e r S q NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notes 1.
As a member you are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise 7.
The return of a completed proxy form or other instrument of proxy will not all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at the AGM.
A proxy prevent you attending the AGM and voting in person if you wish.
need not be a member of the Company but must attend the AGM to 8.
Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan, represent you.
You may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy Childrens Savings Plan or the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA who wish is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
You can only to vote and or attend the meeting must complete and return the enclosed appoint a proxy using the procedure set out in these notes and the notes reply-paid Form of Direction.
You may not use any electronic address provided either 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 in this notice or any related documents including the circular and proxy and Section 311 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company specifies that form to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those to be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and for expressly stated.
the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may 2.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy, together cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a Company no later than 48 hours excluding non-working days prior to the certified copy thereof, must be received by post or during normal business commencement of the AGM or any adjourned meeting.
Changes to the hours only by hand at the Registrars of the Company at Computershare Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
com no later than 48 hours excluding non- 10.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under working days before the time of the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a 3.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be described in the CREST Manual and or by logging on to the website appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual www.
CREST personal members or other CREST General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of 4.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST proxies in notes 1 and 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy rights described in those notes can only be exercised by shareholders of the Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK Company.
& Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required 12.
The members of the Company may require the Company to publish, on for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, its website, without payment a statement which is also passed to the regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an auditors setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, accounts, including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit.
The in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys Company will be required to do so once it has received such requests registrar ID 3RA50 no later than 48 hours excluding non-working days from either members representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of the before the time of the meeting or any adjournment.
For this purpose, the Company or at least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp hold shares in the Company on which there has been paid up an average applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the sum per member of at least 100.
Such requests must be made in writing Companys registrar is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in and must state your full name and address and be sent to the Company at the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh, EH1 3AN.
to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the 13.
Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including information appointee through other means.
required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, is available from 5.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting the Companys page of the Managers website at service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not www.
make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Members have the right to ask questions at the meeting in accordance with Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006. input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member 15.
As at 11 June 2010 being the last practicable date prior to the publication concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or of this notice the Companys issued share capital consisted of 261,014,859 sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as the Company as at 11 June 2010 were 261,014,859 votes.
shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the 16.
Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights of the Company CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members who appoints a person other than the Chairman of the meeting as his proxy and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are will need to ensure that both he and his proxy complies with their respective referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning disclosure obligations under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
