DIRECTORS REPORT The Board believes it is appropriate for Mr Ferguson to be Chairman Operational Financial Risk failure of the Managers accounting systems or those of other third party service providers could lead to an of the Audit Committee as he is considered to be independent and there are no conflicts of interest.
inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a misappropriation of assets.
The Board reviews the Managers Report on The Association of Investment Companies AIC has published its own Internal Controls and the Reports by other third party providers are Code of Corporate Governance which provides a framework of best reviewed by the Managers on behalf of the Board.
The Board is of the opinion that the Company has complied with the principles of the AIC Code, in Discount Volatility the discount at which the Companys shares all material respects, except that Mr JGD Ferguson is Chairman of trade can widen.
The Board monitors the level of discount and the the Audit Committee.
Company has authority to buy back its own shares.
The Board Gearing Risk the Company may borrow money for investment The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
purposes sometimes known as gearing.
If the investments fall in It has a number of matters reserved for its approval including value, any borrowings will magnify the extent of this loss.
If strategy, investment policy, currency hedging, gearing, treasury borrowing facilities are not renewed, the Company may have to sell matters, dividend and corporate governance policy.
A separate investments to repay borrowings.
strategy session is held annually.
The Board also reviews the All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and gearing financial statements, investment transactions, revenue budgets and levels are discussed by the Board and Managers at every meeting.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board to The majority of the Companys investments are in quoted securities enable it to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge that are readily realisable.
Employees The Board currently comprises four Directors all of whom are nonThe Company has no employees.
The executive responsibility for investment management has been delegated to the Companys Managers and Secretaries, Social and Community Issues Baillie Gifford & Co, and, in the context of a Board comprising only As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or community non-executive Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
The Company however believes that it is in the Independent Director is Mr DCP McDougall.
shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and governance factors when selecting and retaining investments.
Details of the Companys The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and policy on socially responsible investment are set out on page 22. experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, Dividends including their relevant experience, can be found on page 18.
The Board recommends a final dividend of 0.50p per ordinary There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent share which, together with the interims already paid, makes a total professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Terms of Appointment If approved, the recommended final dividend on the ordinary shares Letters which specify the terms of appointment are issued to new will be paid on 6 August 2010 to shareholders on the register at the Directors.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection on close of business on 9 July 2010.
The ex-dividend date is 7 July 2010. request.
The Companys Registrar offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan see page 47 and the final date for elections for this dividend is 16 July 2010.
A Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
Corporate Governance Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election every three years and Directors who are also directors of another investment trust The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high managed by Baillie Gifford, or who have served for more than nine standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines how years, submit themselves for re-election annually.
the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2008 the Combined Code were applied throughout Independence of Directors the financial year.
All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of the Managers and free of any business or other relationship which Compliance The Company has complied throughout the year under review with could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code except The Directors recognise the importance of succession planning for that a Nomination Committee has not been established and Mr JGD company boards and the Boards composition is reviewed annually.
Ferguson, Chairman of the Board, is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board is of the view that length of service will not necessarily compromise the independence or contribution of Directors of an As the Board comprises only non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered to be independent, a Nomination Committee is investment trust company, where continuity and experience can be a benefit to the Board.
The Board concurs with the view expressed considered unnecessary.
The appointment of new Directors is considered by the Board as a whole and the Board conducts an in the AIC Code that long serving directors should not be prevented from being considered independent.
annual review of its composition having regard to the present and future needs of the Company.
Mr McDougall was a senior partner of Baillie Gifford & Co until he retired on 30 April 1999.
He is a director of Pacific Horizon 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2010
