DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors are seeking shareholders approval at the Annual Disclosure of Information to Auditors General Meeting to renew the authority to purchase up to 14.99% The Directors confirm that so far as each of the Directors is aware of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at the date of passing there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors of the resolution, such authority to expire at the Annual General are unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps that they might Meeting of the Company to be held in respect of the year ending reasonably be expected to have taken as Directors in order to make 30 April 2011. themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the maximum price excluding expenses that may be paid on the Independent Auditors exercise of the authority must not exceed the higher of: Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as independent i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the London auditors to the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the five business days their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
immediately preceding the date of purchase: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the Recommendation highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
The Directors unanimously recommend you vote in favour of the The minimum price exclusive of expenses that may be paid is resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting as it is 5p per share.
Purchases of shares will be made within guidelines their view that the resolutions are in the best interests of shareholders established, from time to time, by the Board.
The Company does as a whole.
not have any warrants or options in issue.
Your attention is drawn to Resolution 8 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Creditor Payment Policy JGD FERGUSON Chairman It is the Companys payment policy to obtain the best terms for all 15 June 2010 business.
In general, the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is its policy to abide by these terms.
The Company had no trade creditors at either 30 April 2009 or 30 April 2010.
