FURTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Further Shareholder Information Monks is an investment trust.
Investment trusts offer Analysis of Shareholders investors the following: At 30 April 2010 At 30 April 2009 participation in a diversified portfolio of shares: Number % Number % constant supervision by experienced professional managers: Institutions 89,877,043 34.4 97,711,696 37.1 and Intermediaries 126,587,158 48.5 117,306,874 44.5 the Company is free from capital gains tax on capital profits Individuals 22,702,282 8.7 28,744,772 10.9 realised within its portfolio although investors are still liable for Baillie Gifford capital gains tax on profits when selling their investment.
They can be bought by placing an order with a stockbroker, by asking a professional adviser to do so, or through the Baillie Gifford register to receive communications from the Company, including savings vehicles see page 48 for details.
If you are interested the Annual Report, in electronic format: in investing directly in Monks, you can do so online.
There are a update bank mandates and change address details: number of companies offering real time online dealing services use online dealing services: and find out more by visiting the investment trust pages at pay dividends directly into your overseas bank account in your www.
Sources of Further Information on the Company To take advantage of this service, please log in at The price of shares is quoted daily in the Financial Times www-uk.
com investor and enter your Shareholder and can also be found on the Companys website at Reference Number and Company Code this information can be www.
co. uk, Trustnet at found on the last dividend voucher or your share certificate.
co. uk and on other financial websites.
Divided Reinvestment Plan Key Dates Computershare operate a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which Ordinary shareholders normally receive two dividends in respect can be used to buy additional shares instead of receiving your of each financial year.
An interim dividend is paid in January and dividend via cheque or into your bank account.
For further a final dividend is paid in August.
The AGM is normally held at information log on to www-uk.
com investor and the start of August.
follow the instructions or telephone 0870 707 1694.
Capital Gains Tax Electronic Proxy Voting For Capital Gains Tax indexation purposes, the market value of If you hold stock in your own name you can choose to vote by an ordinary share in the Company as at 31 March 1982 as returning proxies electronically at www.
com adjusted for the five for one share split in July 2001 was 14.1p.
If you have any questions about this service please contact Share Register Enquiries Computershare on 0870 707 1170.
Computershare Investor Services PLC maintains the share register CREST Proxy Voting on behalf of the Company.
In the event of queries regarding If you are a user of the CREST system including a CREST shares registered in your own name, please contact the Registrars Personal Member, you may appoint one or more proxies or on 0870 707 1170.
This helpline also offers an automated selfgive an instruction to a proxy by having an appropriate CREST service functionality available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week message transmitted.
For further information please refer to the which allows you to: CREST Manual.
hear the latest share price: The financial statements have been approved by the Directors confirm your current share holding balance: of The Monks Investment Trust PLC.
Baillie Gifford Savings confirm your payment history: and Management Limited is the ISA Manager of the Baillie Gifford order Change of Address, Dividend Bank Mandate and Stock Investment Trust ISA, and the Manager of the Baillie Gifford Transfer forms.
Investment Trust Share Plan and Childrens Savings Plan.
Baillie You can also check your holding on the Registrars web site at Gifford Savings Management Limited is wholly owned by Baillie www-uk.
They also offer a free, Gifford & Co.
Both are authorised and regulated by the Financial secure share management website service which allows you to: Services Authority.
Baillie Gifford only provides information about its products and does not provide investment advice.
The staff of view your share portfolio and see the latest market price of Baillie Gifford and Monks Directors may hold shares in Monks and your shares: may buy or sell such shares from time to time.
calculate the total market price of each shareholding: view price histories and trading graphs: THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 47
