NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Principal Accounting Policies A summary of the principal accounting policies, which are unchanged e Income from the prior year and have been applied consistently, are set out below.
i Income from equity investments, is brought into account on the date on which the investments are quoted ex-dividend or, where a Basis of Accounting no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under receive payment is established.
Equity investment income includes the historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation of fixed distributions from Collective Investment Schemes, other than those asset investments and derivatives which are recorded at fair value, and that relate to equalisation which are treated as capital items.
on the assumption that approval as an investment trust will continue to be granted.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance ii Interest from fixed interest securities including the zero coupon with The Companies Act 2006, applicable UK accounting standards element of the swap rate linked note is recognised on an effective and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements yield basis.
of Investment Trust Companies issued in January 2009. iii Unfranked investment income and overseas dividends include the In order to better reflect the activities of the trust and in accordance with taxes deducted at source.
guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses iv Franked investment income is stated net of tax credits.
the profit and loss account between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented in the Income Statement.
v Underwriting commission and interest receivable on deposits are recognised on an accruals basis.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Companys balance sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of vi If scrip is taken in lieu of dividends in cash, the net amount of the the instrument.
cash dividend declared is credited to the revenue account.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the The Directors consider the Companys functional currency to be sterling cash dividend foregone is recognised as capital.
as the Companys shareholders are predominantly based in the UK and the Company is subject to the UKs regulatory environment.
f Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis and are charged b Investments through the revenue column of the Income Statement except where they Investment purchases and sales are recognised on a trade date basis.
relate directly to the acquisition or disposal of an investment, in which Expenses incidental to acquisition are included in purchase cost and case they are added to the cost of the investment or deducted from the expenses incidental to sale are deducted from proceeds of sale.
and losses on investments are recognised in the Income Statement as capital items.
g Long Term Borrowings and Finance Costs Long term borrowings are carried in the balance sheet at amortised Investments are designated as held at fair value through profit or loss cost, representing the cumulative amount of net proceeds after issue, on initial recognition and are measured at subsequent reporting dates plus accrued finance costs.
The finance costs of such borrowings are at fair value.
The fair value of listed investments is bid value, or in allocated to the revenue column of the Income Statement at a constant the case of FTSE 100 constituents, at last traded prices issued by rate on the carrying amount.
Issue costs are written off at a constant rate the London Stock Exchange.
Listed investments include Open Ended over the life of the borrowings.
Gains and losses on the repurchase or Investment Companies OEICs authorised in the UK: these are valued early settlement of debt is wholly charged to capital.
at closing prices and are classified in the list of investments according to the principal geographical area of the underlying holdings.
The fair h Deferred Taxation value of unlisted investments uses valuation techniques, determined by Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences which have the Directors, based upon latest dealing prices, stockbroker valuations, originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date, calculated at the net asset values and other information, as appropriate.
tax rates expected to apply when the timing differences reverse, based on what has been enacted or substantively enacted, relevant to the c Derivatives benefit or liability.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent The Company may use derivatives for the purpose of efficient portfolio that it is more likely than not that there will be taxable profits from which management including reducing, transferring or eliminating risk in its underlying timing differences can be deducted.
investments and protection against currency risk and to achieve capital growth.
Such instruments are recognised on the date of the contract that i Dividend Distributions creates the Companys obligation to pay or receive cash flows and are Interim dividends are recognised in the period in which they are paid measured as financial assets or liabilities at fair value at subsequent and final dividends are recognised in the period in which the dividends reporting dates, while the relevant contracts remain open.
The fair value are approved by the Companys shareholders.
is determined by reference to the open market value of the contract.
j Foreign Currencies Where the investment rationale for the use of derivatives is to hedge Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the rate ruling specific risks pertaining to the Companys portfolio composition, hedge at the time of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities and fixed accounting will only be adopted where the derivative instrument asset investment in foreign currencies are translated at the closing rates relates specifically to a single item, or group of items, of equal and of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Forward foreign exchange opposite financial exposure, and where the derivative instrument has contracts are valued at the forward rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
been explicitly designated as a hedge of such item s at the date of Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rate subsequent to initial recognition.
In all other circumstances changes in the fair value the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the of derivative instruments are recognised immediately in the Income Income Statement as capital or revenue as appropriate.
Statement as capital or revenue as appropriate.
k Capital Reserve d Cash and Liquid Resources Gains and losses on realisation of investments, changes in the fair Cash and liquid resources includes cash in hand, deposits held at call value of investments held, exchange differences of a capital nature with banks and other short term highly liquid investments with original and the amount by which the market value of assets and liabilities maturities of three months or less.
differs from their book value are dealt with in this reserve.
Purchases of the Companys own shares for cancellation are also funded from this reserve.
