COST-EFFECTIVE WAYS TO BUY AND HOLD SHARES IN MONKS Cost-effective Ways to Buy and Hold Shares in Monks Online Management Service You can also open and manage your Share Plan and or ISA online, BIG through our secure Online Management Service OMS which can be WITH KIDS accessed through the Baillie Gifford website www.
Our Childrens Savings Plan is proving a big hit with children, parents, godparents, grandparents, aunts and uncles alike.
Thats probably because OMS enables you to apply for, open and administer a Baillie Gifford it allows you to take such a grown-up, long-term, view of the investment world.
Quite simply, our Childrens Savings Plan is designed for you to invest for children under 18 and offers access to global stockmarkets Investment Trust Share Plan or Investment Trust ISA online.
As well as through investment trusts with special opportunities to invest in regions such as China, Japan and the Far East.
Here at Baillie Gifford we are always working extremely hard to understand the long-term themes of the future and being able to view the details of your plan online, the service also to profit from them over time.
For example, we believe that China really will emerge as an economic superpower, that resources will become harder to nd and will be concentrated in the emerging nations and that alternative energy is both allows you to: a practical and a political must.
Weve been picking stocks intelligently for the last 100 years thats why were confident that the fund you choose for the child you care about offers real potential for income or capital growth.
Take a closer look at the plan at www.
com and were get current valuations: sure youll nd out why were so big with kids.
Please remember, your investment can be affected by changing stock market conditions and by currency exchange rates.
The value of your investment and any income from it can fall as well as rise, and you may not get back the amount invested.
Minimum investment make lump sum investments: limits apply.
com switch between investment trusts except where there is more than We may record your call.
Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited BGSM is the manager of the Baillie Gifford Childrens Savings Plan and is wholly owned by Baillie Gifford & Co, which is the manager and secretary of the investment trusts offered within the plan.
Your personal data is held and used by BGSM in accordance with data protection legislation.
We may use one holder : your information to send you information about Baillie Gifford products, funds or special offers and to contact you for business research purposes.
We will only disclose your information to other companies within the Baillie Gifford group and to agents appointed by us for these purposes.
You can withdraw your consent to receiving further marketing communications from us and to being contacted for business research purposes at any time.
You also have the right to review and amend your data at any time.
set up a direct debit to make regular investments: and The Share Plan and ISA brochure available Childrens Savings Plan brochure available update certain personal details.
co. uk Further information Baillie Gifford & Co offers a number of plans that enable you to buy If you would like more information on any of the plans described, and hold shares in Monks cost-efficiently.
Purchases and sales are please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team.
See contact normally subject to a dealing price spread and Government stamp details on page 49. duty of 0.5% is payable on purchases.
Risks The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
No initial charge Monks is listed on the stock market.
As a result, the value of the shares, No annual wrapper charge and any income from those shares, is not guaranteed and could go Normally cheaper than dealing through a stockbroker down as well as up.
You may not get back the amount you invested.
Invest a lump sum from 250 or monthly from just 30 As Monks invests in overseas securities, changes in the rates of No maximum investment limits exchange may also cause the value of your investment and any Stop and start saving at any time with no charge income it may pay to go down or up.
Twice weekly dealing usually Tuesday and Friday A withdrawal charge of just 22 Monks can borrow money to make further investments sometimes known as gearing.
The risk is that when this money is repaid by the The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA Company, the value of the investments may not be enough to cover the Tax-efficient investment borrowing and interest costs, and the Company will make a loss.
If the Companys investments fall in value, any borrowings will increase the No set-up charge amount of this loss.
Monks can buy back and cancel its own shares.
The Flat rate annual management charge currently of 32.50 VAT risks from borrowing are increased when the Company buys back and Lump sum investment from 2,000 currently up to a maximum of cancels its shares.
10,200 each year Save monthly from 100 Monks can make use of derivatives.
Where derivatives are used to compensate for possible unfavourable currency and market A withdrawal charge of just 22 movements there is a risk that potential gains may be restricted in a ISA Transfers rising market.
Where derivatives are used for investment purposes Transfer existing ISAs from other plan managers into the Baillie there could be a high risk of loss to the Company due to the large Gifford ISA and quick price movements of these contracts.
Consolidate your plans into a managed global investment The generation of income is less important than Monks aim of Minimum transfer value 2,000 achieving capital growth.
You should not expect a significant, or steady, annual income from the shares.
The Baillie Gifford Childrens Savings Plan The favourable tax treatment of ISAs may change.
An excellent way for parents, grandparents or other adults to invest for a child Details of other risks that apply to investment in these savings vehicles No initial charge are contained in the product brochures.
No annual wrapper charge The option of a designated account or a bare trust in favour of the child Flexible investment options: lump sum from 100 or monthly saving from just 25 A withdrawal charge of just 22 48 ANNUAL REPORT 2010
