Glossary of Terms and Definitions Price Earnings Ratio Actual Gearing The ratio is calculated by dividing the middle-market price Total Assets as below less all cash and fixed interest assets per share by the earnings per share.
The calculation assumes excluding convertibles divided by shareholders funds.
no change in earnings but in practice the multiple reflects the stock markets view of a companys prospects and profit Asset Cover growth potential.
The value of a companys net assets available to repay a certain security.
Asset cover is usually expressed as a Prior Charges multiple and calculated by dividing the net assets available The name given to all borrowings including debentures, loan by the amount required to repay the specific security.
and short term loans and overdrafts that are to be used for investment purposes, reciprocal foreign currency loans, Discount currency facilities to the extent that they are drawn down, The amount by which the market price per share of an index-linked securities, and all types of preference or investment trust is lower than the net asset value per share.
preferred capital and the income shares of split capital trusts, The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the irrespective of the time until repayment.
net asset value per share.
Reverse Convertible Security also known as an EquityDividend Cover linked note Earnings per share divided by dividends per share expressed A type of bond where the redemption proceeds are linked to as a ratio.
the capital performance of an underlying equity.
This type of bond generally receives a steady stream of income due to Dividend Yield the payment of a high coupon rate.
The investor is fully The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the share exposed to the downside performance of the underlying price.
equity but has only limited upside participation.
The high coupon rate compensates the investor for the limited Net Asset Value participation in the upside of the underlying equity.
The bond The value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this is normally cash settled at maturity.
purpose included current and long-term liabilities.
The net asset value divided by the number of shares in issue produces Total Assets the net asset value per share.
Total Assets less current liabilities before deducting prior charges as defined above.
Potential Gearing Total Assets including all debt being used for investment Total Expense Ratio purposes divided by shareholders funds.
Ratio of expenses as percentage of average shareholders funds calculated as per the industry standard Lipper Fitzrovia Premium method.
The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust exceeds the net asset value per share.
The Total Return premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the net Total Return involves reinvesting the net dividend in the asset value per share.
month that the share price goes xd.
The NAV Total Return involves investing the same net dividend in the NAV of the trust on the date to which that dividend was earned, eg quarter end, half year or year end date.
Winding-up Date The date specified in the Articles of Association for windingup a company.
