Glossary of Terms and Definitions Price Earnings Ratio Actual Gearing The ratio is calculated by dividing the middle-market price Total Assets as below less all cash divided by shareholders per share by the earnings per share.
no change in earnings but in practice the multiple reflects the stock markets view of a companys prospects and profit Asset Cover The value of a companys net assets available to repay a growth potential.
Asset cover is usually expressed as a Prior Charges multiple and calculated by dividing the net assets available The name given to all borrowings including debentures, long by the amount required to repay the specific security.
term loans and short term loans and overdrafts that are to be used for investment purposes, reciprocal foreign currency B Ordinary Shares B Ordinary shares carry the same rights as the Ordinary loans, currency facilities to the extent that they are drawn shares.
The difference is that B Ordinary shareholders receive down, index-linked securities, and all types of preference or their dividends by means of a capitalisation issue as opposed preferred capital and the income shares of split capital trusts, to a cash dividend.
With effect from the payment of the final irrespective of the time until repayment.
dividend in 2007, the capitalisation issue received by B Total Assets Ordinary shareholders has been made every time a dividend The total assets less current liabilities as shown on the is paid on the Ordinary shares.
B Ordinary shareholders also Balance Sheet with the addition of Prior Charges as defined have the right to convert their shares into Ordinary shares above.
More details regarding this are shown on page 73.
Total Expense Ratio Ratio of expenses as percentage of average shareholders Discount funds calculated as per the industry standard Lipper Fitzrovia The amount by which the market price per share of an method.
investment trust is lower than the net asset value per share.
The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the Total Return net asset value per share.
Total Return involves reinvesting the net dividend in the month that the share price goes xd.
The NAV Total Return Dividend Cover involves investing the same net dividend in the NAV of the Earnings per share divided by dividends per share expressed trust on the date to which that dividend was earned, eg as a ratio.
quarter end, half year or year end date.
Dividend Yield Winding-Up Entitlements The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the share On a winding up of the Company, any surplus assets price.
available after payment of all debts and satisfaction of all liabilities of the Company shall be applied in repaying the Net Asset Value Ordinary and B Ordinary shareholders the amounts paid up The value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this on such shares.
Any surplus shall be divided among the purpose included current and long-term liabilities.
The net holders of Ordinary and B Ordinary shares pari passu asset value divided by the number of shares in issue produces according to the amount paid up on such shares respectively.
the net asset value per share.
Voting Rights Potential Gearing In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Total Assets including all debt being used for investment Company, on a show of hands, every member or duly purposes divided by shareholders funds.
appointed proxy present at a general meeting of the Company has one vote: and, on a poll, every member present Premium in person or by proxy shall have 89 votes for every 25p The amount by which the market price per share of an nominal amount of Ordinary or B Ordinary shares held.
investment trust exceeds the net asset value per share.
The premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value per share.
