Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 91 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Cairn Energy PLC Cairn or the Group for the year ended 31 December 2010 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 21 March 2011.
The Group is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom whose shares are publically traded.
The registered office is located at 50 Lothian Road, Edinburgh, Scotland.
Cairn prepares its accounts on a historical cost basis.
Where there are assets and liabilities calculated on a different basis, this fact is disclosed in the relevant accounting policy.
Cairn has changed its accounting policy for the valuation of inventory.
The Groups policy is now to do so at the lower of cost or net realisable value: previously, inventories of oil and condensate were valued at estimated selling price.
See Note 35a for further details and the impact of this change on comparatives.
b Accounting standards Cairn prepares its accounts in accordance with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The Groups financial statements are also consistent with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB as they apply to accounting periods ended 31 December 2010.
For the year ending 31 December 2010, Cairn has adopted the following standards and interpretations: Title Change to accounting policy Impact on initial application Amendment to IFRS 2 Group-Settled Amendments to the definitions of No impact on the financial position Share-based Payment Arrangements share-based payment transactions, or performance of the Group.
Refer the scope of IFRS 2 and accounting to Note 35 b for the impact on the for group cash-settled share-based Company.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised Significant changes to accounting for Changes in accounting policy are business combinations including the prospective and therefore there is non-capitalisation of acquisition costs, no impact on the financial position recognition of contingent liabilities at or performance of the Group.
fair values and re-measurement of deferred consideration at subsequent reporting dates.
IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held-for-sale Clarifies the disclosures required for Disclosures given in Note 3 to these and Discontinued Operations non-current assets, disposal groups accounts comply with revised standard.
classified as held-for-sale and discontinued operations.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments Segment assets and liabilities need only No impact on the financial position be reported when they are included in or performance of the Group.
measures used by the chief operating decision maker.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Amendments to the classification of No impact on the financial position or convertible instruments.
performance of the Group or Company.
IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows Explicitly states that only expenditure No impact on the financial position or that results in a recognised asset can performance of the Group.
be classified as investing activities.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Changes in ownership interests of a A disposal of a non-controlling interest in Financial Statements amended subsidiary undertaking which do not subsidiary undertakings is now recognised result in a change of control are to be in equity with neither a gain arising in profit recognised through equity.
or loss, nor goodwill being recorded in the Balance Sheet.
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets Clarification that the largest unit for Goodwill arising on the acquisition of the allocating goodwill acquired in a business Groups Mediterranean assets has been combination is the operating segment impaired.
See Note 16. before segments are combined into a single reportable segment.
92 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued b Accounting standards continued Other amendments to IFRS effective during the year but with no impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group were as follows: t IAS 17 Leases: t IAS 18 Revenue: t IAS 38 Intangible Assets: t Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: t IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements: t IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate: t IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners: and t IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers.
The following new standards and interpretations, which are not yet effective and which are not expected to impact on the Groups financial position or performance, have been issued by the IASB: t IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement: t IAS 24 Revised Related Party Disclosures: t Improvements to IFRS 7 Transfers of Financial Assets: t Amendment to IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets: t Amendment to IAS 32 Classification of Rights Issues: and t IFRIC 19 Extinguishment of Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments.
c Presentation currency The functional currency of Cairn Energy PLC, the ultimate parent company of the Group, is Sterling.
These accounts have been presented in US Dollars $, the functional currency of most companies within the Group.
It is deemed to be more appropriate to present the financial statements in line with the functional currency of the majority of the Group.
The Groups policy on foreign currencies is detailed in Note 1 q. d Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts include the results of Cairn Energy PLC and its subsidiary undertakings to the Balance Sheet date.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Income Statement and Statement of Cash Flows from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal as appropriate.
Cairn allocates the purchase consideration of any acquisition to assets and liabilities on the basis of fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the assets and liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
Any goodwill arising is recognised as an asset and is subject to annual review for impairment.
Goodwill is written off where circumstances indicate that the value of the underlying cash generating unit including the asset may no longer support the carrying value of goodwill.
Any such impairment loss arising is recognised in the Income Statement for the year.
Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future periods.
Negative goodwill is credited immediately to the Income Statement.
Cairn has used the exemption granted under s408 of the Companies Act 2006 that allows for the non-disclosure of the Income Statement of the parent company.
The profit attributable to the Company for the year ended 31 December 2010 was $150.2m 2009: loss of $57.0m.
e Joint Ventures Cairn participates in several unincorporated Joint Ventures which involve the joint control of assets used in the Groups oil and gas exploration and producing activities.
Cairn accounts for its share of assets, liabilities, income and expenditure of Joint Ventures in which the Group holds an interest, classified in the appropriate Balance Sheet and Income Statement headings.
Cairns principal licence interests are jointly controlled assets.
A list of Cairns interests in unincorporated Joint Ventures is given on page 25. f Revenue and other income Revenue from operating activities Revenue represents Cairns share of oil, gas and condensate production, recognised on a direct entitlement basis, and tariff income received for third party use of operating facilities and pipelines in accordance with agreements.
Other income Income received as operator from Joint Ventures is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with Joint Venture agreements and is included within Other operating income in the Income Statement.
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method on an accruals basis and is recognised within Finance income in the Income Statement.
Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 93 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued g Intangible exploration appraisal assets and property, plant & equipment development producing assets Cairn follows a successful efforts based accounting policy for oil and gas assets.
Costs incurred prior to obtaining the legal rights to explore an area are expensed immediately to the Income Statement.
Expenditure incurred on the acquisition of a licence interest is initially capitalised on a licence-by-licence basis.
Costs are held, un-depleted, within intangible exploration appraisal assets until such time as the exploration phase on the licence area is complete or commercial reserves have been discovered.
Exploration expenditure incurred in the process of determining oil and gas exploration targets is capitalised initially within intangible exploration appraisal assets and subsequently allocated to drilling activities.
Exploration appraisal drilling costs are initially capitalised on a well-by-well basis until the success or otherwise of the well has been established.
The success or failure of each exploration appraisal effort is judged on a well-by-well basis.
Drilling costs are written off on completion of a well unless the results indicate that hydrocarbon reserves exist and there is a reasonable prospect that these reserves are commercial.
Following appraisal of successful exploration wells, if commercial reserves are established and technical feasibility for extraction demonstrated, then the related capitalised intangible exploration appraisal costs are transferred into a single field cost centre within property, plant & equipment development producing assets after testing for impairment see below.
Where results of exploration drilling indicate the presence of hydrocarbons which are ultimately not considered commercially viable, all related costs are written off to the Income Statement.
All costs incurred after the technical feasibility and commercial viability of producing hydrocarbons has been demonstrated are capitalised within property, plant & equipment development producing assets on a field-by-field basis.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only where it either enhances the economic benefits of the development producing asset or replaces part of the existing development producing asset.
Any remaining costs associated with the part replaced are expensed.
Net proceeds from any disposal of an intangible exploration appraisal asset are initially credited against the previously capitalised costs.
Any surplus proceeds are credited to the Income Statement.
Net proceeds from any disposal of development producing assets are credited against the previously capitalised cost.
A gain or loss on disposal of a development producing asset is recognised in the Income Statement to the extent that the net proceeds exceed or are less than the appropriate portion of the net capitalised costs of the asset.
Depletion Cairn depletes separately, where applicable, any significant components within property, plant & equipment development producing assets, such as fields, processing facilities and pipelines, which are significant in relation to the total cost of a development producing asset.
Cairn depletes expenditure on property, plant & equipment development producing assets on a unit-of-production basis, based on proved and probable reserves on a field-by-field basis.
In certain circumstances, fields within a single development area may be combined for depletion purposes.
Impairment Intangible exploration appraisal assets are reviewed regularly for indicators of impairment following the guidance in IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources and tested for impairment where such indicators exist.
In such circumstances the exploration appraisal asset is allocated to property, plant & equipment development producing assets within the same operating segment and tested for impairment.
Any impairment arising is recognised in the Income Statement for the year.
Where there are no development producing assets within an operating segment, the exploration appraisal costs are charged immediately to the Income Statement.
Impairment reviews on property, plant & equipment development producing assets are carried out on each cash-generating unit identified in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Cairns cash-generating units are those assets which generate largely independent cash flows and are normally, but not always, single development areas.
At each reporting date, where there are indicators of impairment, the net book value of the cash-generating unit is compared with the associated expected discounted future net cash flows.
If the net book value is higher, then the difference is written off to the Income Statement as impairment.
Discounted future net cash flows for IAS 36 purposes are calculated using an estimated short and long-term oil price of $75 bbl 2009: short and long-term oil price of $65 bbl, or the appropriate gas price as dictated by the relevant gas sales contract, escalation for prices and costs of 3%, and a pre-tax discount rate of between 10% and 12% 2009: 3% and 10% respectively.
Forecast production profiles are determined on an asset-by-asset basis, using appropriate petroleum engineering techniques.
Where there has been a charge for impairment in an earlier period, that charge will be reversed in a later period where there has been a change in circumstance to the extent that the discounted future net cash flows are higher than the net book value at the time.
In reversing impairment losses, the carrying amount of the asset will be increased to the lower of its original carrying value or the carrying value that would have been determined net of depletion had no impairment loss been recognised in prior periods.
94 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued h Property, plant & equipment other Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment and depreciated over their expected useful economic lives as follows: Annual Depreciation rate % method Tenants improvements 10 33 straight line Vehicles and equipment 25 50 straight line Depreciation is charged over the shorter of the economic life or the remaining term of the lease.
i Intangible assets other Intangible assets have finite useful lives, are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment, and amortised over their expected useful economic lives as follows: Annual Amortisation rate % method Software costs 25 50 straight line Goodwill arising on business combinations is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
See Note 1 d. j Investments The Companys investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less provisions resulting from impairment.
The recoverable value of investments is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in use is based on the discounted future net cash flows of the oil and gas assets held by the subsidiary.
Discounted future net cash flows for IAS 36 purposes are calculated using an estimated short and long-term oil price of $75 bbl 2009: short and long-term oil price of $65 bbl or the appropriate gas price as dictated by the relevant gas sales contract, escalation for prices and costs of 3%, and a discount rate of 7% 2009: 3% and 10% respectively.
k Inventory Inventories of oil and condensate held at the Balance Sheet date are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value based on the estimated selling price.
l Assets and liabilities held-for-sale Non-current assets and disposal groups and related liabilities are classified as held-for-sale where it is highly probable that their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
Where a disposal group classified as held-for-sale represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operation, it is presented as a discontinued operation in the Income Statement.
A sale is considered highly probable where buyers have been identified and the sale transaction is expected to be complete within one year from the date of classification.
Assets held-for-sale are measured at the lower of cost or fair value less cost to sell.
Any depletion, depreciation or amortisation charges against the asset cease at the date of classification.
m Financial instruments A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity.
Financial assets are categorised as financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss, held-to-maturity investments, loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets.
The Group holds financial assets which are classified as either available-for-sale financial assets or loans and receivables, with the exception of derivative financial instruments which are held at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities generally substantiate claims for repayment in cash or another financial asset.
Financial liabilities are categorised as either fair value through profit or loss or held at amortised cost.
All of the Groups financial liabilities are held at amortised cost, with the exception of derivative financial instruments which are held at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial instruments are generally recognised as soon as the Group becomes party to the contractual regulations of the financial instrument.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency options to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss.
The derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 95 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued m Financial instruments continued Derivative financial instruments continued Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year are taken directly to the Income Statement.
The Group did not apply hedge accounting for derivative financial instruments held during the current and prior year.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are not classified as loans and receivables.
Movements in the fair value during the year are recognised directly in equity and are disclosed in the Statements of Comprehensive Income.
The cumulative gain or loss that arises on subsequent disposal of available-for-sale financial assets will be recycled through the Income Statement.
Loans and other receivables Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment.
Trade and other receivables are recognised when invoiced.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables where the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
The carrying amounts of loans and other receivables are tested at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective material evidence of impairment, for example overdue trade debt.
Any impairment losses are recognised through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the Income Statement or Balance Sheet in accordance with where the original receivable was recognised.
Bank deposits Bank deposits with an original maturity of over three months are held as a separate category of current asset and presented on the face of the Balance Sheet.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purposes of the Group Statements of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Trade payables and other non-derivative financial liabilities Trade payables and other creditors are non-interest bearing and are measured at cost.
Interest bearing bank loans and borrowings All interest bearing bank loans and borrowings represent amounts drawn under the Groups revolving credit facilities, classified according to the length of time remaining under the respective facility.
Loans are initially measured at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest payable is accrued in the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method.
Finance leases Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to the Income Statement, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs see below.
The Group has reviewed the terms and conditions of the lease arrangements and determined that all risks and rewards of ownership lie with the Group and has therefore accounted for the contracts as finance leases.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they are incurred except for borrowing costs incurred on borrowings directly attributable to development projects which are capitalised within the property, plant & equipment development producing asset.
n Equity Equity instruments issued by Cairn are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs, allocated between share capital and share premium.
96 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued o Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
The current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in Joint Ventures where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
A deferred income tax liability is not recognised if a temporary difference arises on initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised, except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary timing difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in Joint Ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where they arise within the same entity and tax jurisdiction and the Group intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
p Decommissioning At the end of the producing life of a field, costs are incurred in removing and decommissioning production facilities.
Cairn recognises the full discounted cost of dismantling and decommissioning as an asset and liability when the obligation arises.
The decommissioning asset is included within property, plant & equipment development producing assets with the cost of the related installation.
The liability is included within provisions.
Revisions to the estimated costs of decommissioning which alter the level of the provisions required are also reflected in adjustments to the decommissioning asset.
The amortisation of the asset, calculated on a unit-of-production basis based on proved and probable reserves, is included in the Depletion and decommissioning charge in the Income Statement, and the unwinding of the discount on the provision is included within Finance costs.
q Foreign currencies In the accounts of individual Group companies, Cairn translates foreign currency transactions into the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing at the transaction date.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated into the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing at the Balance Sheet date.
Exchange differences arising are taken to the Income Statement except for those incurred on borrowings specifically allocable to development projects, which are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
The Group maintains the accounts of the parent and subsidiary undertakings in their functional currency.
Where applicable, the Group translates parent and subsidiary accounts into the presentation currency, $, using the closing rate method for assets and liabilities which are translated into $ at the rate of exchange prevailing at the Balance Sheet date and rates at the date of transactions for Income Statement accounts.
Cairn takes exchange differences arising on the translation of net assets of Group companies whose functional currency is non $ directly to reserves.
Rates of exchange to $1 were as follows: 31 December Average 31 December Average 2010 2010 2009 2009 Sterling 0.641 0.647 0.619 0.639 Indian Rupee 44.712 45.662 46.410 48.265 Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 97 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued r Employee benefits Pension schemes Cairn operates defined contribution pension schemes in the UK and India.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of Cairn and its subsidiaries.
Cairn also operates insured benefit schemes for certain Indian and Bangladeshi employees as required under local legislation.
In accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits these are treated as defined contribution schemes.
The pension cost charged represents contributions payable in the year in accordance with the rules of the schemes.
Share schemes The cost of awards to employees under Cairns LTIP and share option plans, granted after 7 November 2002, are recognised over the three year period to which the performance relates.
The amount recognised is based on the fair value of the shares as measured at the date of the award.
The shares are valued using either the Black Scholes or binomial model, further details of which are given in Note 27.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance and or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award the vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Companys best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The Income Statement charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense as recognised at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense as if the terms had not been modified.
An additional expense is recognised for any modification, which increases the total fair value of the share-based payment arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
Shares acquired to meet awards under these shares schemes are held by the ESOP Trust.
The accounts of the ESOP Trust are aggregated into these financial statements.
The costs of awards to employees, in the form of cash but based on share performance phantom options are recognised over the period to which the performance relates.
The amount recognised is based on the fair value of the liability arising from the transaction.
Termination benefits Cairn recognises a liability for termination benefits at the point where the Group is committed to making the payments in return for employee redundancy.
s Operating lease commitments Cairn charges rentals payable under operating leases to the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
The Group has reviewed the terms and conditions of the lease arrangements and determined that all risks and rewards of ownership lie with the lessor and has therefore accounted for the contracts as operating leases.
t Exceptional items The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the Income Statement, those material items of income and expense which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better the trends in financial performance.
u Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions Judgements In the process of applying Cairns accounting policies, the Group has made the following judgements, which have the most significant accounting impact in the consolidated financial results: Assets held-for-sale and discontinued operations Cairn has entered into an agreement with Vedanta to sell a controlling interest in its subsidiary, Cairn India Limited.
Shareholder approval has been unanimously received and the deal will complete on approval from GoI and Joint Venture partners.
At 31 December 2010 Cairn believed that all necessary approvals would be received within a time-frame which would allow this transaction to complete on its original terms.
Therefore all assets and liabilities of the Cairn India Group have been classified as a disposal group held-for-sale.
The results of the Cairn India Group have been included within discontinued operations.
98 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued u Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions continued Key estimations and assumptions The Group has used estimates and assumptions in arriving at certain figures within the financial statements.
The resulting accounting estimates may not equate with the actual results which will only be known in time.
Those areas believed to be key areas of estimation are noted below, with further details of the assumptions contained in the relevant note.
Oil and gas reserves Cairn estimates oil and gas reserves on a proved and probable entitlement interest basis.
Gross reserve estimates are based on forecast production profiles over the remaining life of the field, determined on an asset-by-asset basis, using appropriate petroleum engineering techniques.
Net entitlement reserve estimates are subsequently calculated using the Groups current oil price and cost recovery assumptions.
Estimated reserve quantities are given in the Reserves table on page 141.
Impairment testing Discounted future net cash flows for IAS 36 purposes are calculated using commodity price, cost and discount rate assumptions on forecast production profiles.
See Notes 1 d, 1 g, 1 j and 1 m for further details.
Depletion Depletion charges are calculated on a field-by-field basis using oil and gas reserve estimates and future capital cost assumptions.
Depletion ceases on assets held-for-sale at the date of classification.
See Note 1 g and 1 l. Decommissioning estimates The Groups provision for decommissioning oil and gas assets is based on current estimates of the costs for removing and decommissioning producing facilities, the forecast timing of settlement of decommissioning liabilities and the appropriate discount rate.
Share-based payments Charges for share-based payments are based on the fair value at the date of the award.
The shares are valued using appropriate modelling techniques and inputs to the models include assumptions on leaver rates, trigger points, discounts rates and volatility.
Deferred tax The tax base used in the calculation of deferred tax on the Groups Indian assets changed during the year to reflect the classification of the assets and liabilities of the Cairn India Group as a disposal group held-for-sale rather than as assets held for continued use.
Details on further estimates and assumptions used in calculating deferred tax liabilities are given in Note 1 o.
2 REVENUE AND OTHER INCOME 2010 2009 $m $m Interest receivable Note 9 1.7 0.6 Other operating income Joint Venture operator fee income 0.8 1.1 - - Total income 2.5 1.7 - - 3 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AND ASSETS HELD-FOR-SALE On 16 August, Cairn announced the conditional agreement with Vedanta, for the sale of a maximum 51% of the fully-diluted share capital of Cairn India.
Shareholder approval from both parties has been obtained and, although regulatory approval and Joint Venture partner approval is required to complete the proposed transaction, as at 31 December 2010 Cairn believed the necessary approvals would be received and has classified the assets and liabilities of the Cairn India Group as a disposal group held-for-sale.
The size of the interest in Cairn India sold by Cairn may be reduced down to 40% of the fully-diluted share capital of Cairn India.
Immediately following completion, Cairn is expected to have a residual interest of between approximately 10.6% and 21.6% of the fully-diluted share capital of Cairn India, while Vedanta will hold a controlling 51% interest.
Cairn is expected to receive a cash consideration of between $6.6bn 40% sold and $8.5bn 51% sold, depending on both the number of shares comprised within the fully-diluted share capital of Cairn India at completion and the size of the interest in Cairn India sold to Vedanta pursuant to the proposed transaction.
On 20 December 2010, Santos International Holdings Pty Limited agreed to purchase the entire share capital of Cairn Energy Sangu Field Limited, which holds 37.5% interest in the producing Sangu gas field, offshore Bangladesh, and a 50% interest in Block 16 exploration acreage for a consideration of $0.8m.
As a result of this transaction Cairn no longer has operations in Bangladesh.
Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 99 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 3 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AND ASSETS HELD-FOR-SALE continued The results of the Cairn India Limited Group and of Cairn Energy Sangu Field Limited operations are presented as discontinuing operations and summarised below: Cairn Energy Cairn Energy Cairn India Sangu Field Cairn India Sangu Field Limited Limited Total Limited Limited Total 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue 1,594.2 7.1 1,601.3 156.7 13.2 169.9 Cost of sales 438.1 6.1 444.2 158.4 11.4 169.8 - - - - - - Gross profit loss 1,156.1 1.0 1,157.1 1.7 1.8 0.1 Other operating income and expenses 53.6 14.5 68.1 40.5 6.6 47.1 - - - - - - Operating profit loss 1,102.5 13.5 1,089.0 42.2 4.8 47.0 Net finance costs income 53.1 53.1 0.7 0.7 - - - - - - Profit loss before taxation 1,049.4 13.5 1,035.9 41.5 4.8 46.3 Taxation 350.6 350.6 110.5 110.5 - - - - - - Profit loss for the year 1,400.0 13.5 1,386.5 69.0 4.8 64.2 - - - - - - Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 1,111.1 13.5 1,097.6 34.6 4.8 29.8 Non-controlling interests 288.9 288.9 34.4 34.4 - - - - - - Profit loss on ordinary activities for the year 1,400.0 4.2 1,395.8 69.0 4.8 64.2 Loss on disposal 9.3 9.3 - - - - - - 1,400.0 13.5 1,386.5 69.0 4.8 64.2 - - - - - - Earnings per share: Basic cents 78.60 2.20 Diluted cents 78.30 2.19 - - The earnings per share has been calculated on profit available to equity holders of the parent divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares for both basic and diluted amounts as disclosed in Note 12.
100 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 3 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AND ASSETS HELD-FOR-SALE continued The major classes of assets and liabilities classified as held-for-sale as at 31 December 2010 are as follows: Cairn India Limited Other Total $m $m $m Assets Intangible exploration appraisal assets 376.5 1.5 378.0 Property, plant & equipment development producing assets 2,402.2 2,402.2 Property, plant & equipment other 6.6 6.6 Intangible assets other 4.8 4.8 Deferred tax asset 524.8 524.8 Inventory 10.8 10.8 Trade and other receivables 504.4 504.4 Bank deposits 452.6 452.6 Financial instruments 2.9 2.9 Cash and cash equivalents 438.5 438.5 - - - Assets held-for-sale 4,724.1 1.5 4,725.6 - - - Liabilities Trade and other payables 408.2 408.2 Obligations under finance leases 2.0 2.0 Provisions 242.8 242.8 Income tax liabilities 35.8 35.8 Loans and borrowings 673.7 673.7 - - - Liabilities related to disposal unit held-for-sale 1,362.5 1,362.5 - - - Net assets directly associated with disposal unit and assets held-for-sale 3,361.6 1.5 3,363.1 - - - Foreign currency translation reserves of $95.5m relate to discontinued operations.
Other assets held-for-sale represents intangible exploration appraisal assets of $1.5m on the proposed sale of the Groups Nabeul permit in Tunisia.
Included in loans and borrowings of $673.7m are debenture and loan balances.
In October 2010 Cairn India raised $500m through INR Unsecured Non-convertible Debentures, at competitive commercial terms.
$301.9m was drawn at the year end and the balance is available to drawdown subject to certain conditions.
In October 2009, the Cairn India Group completed a $1.6bn re-financing for the Rajasthan project through a combination of $750m international US dollar borrowings USD Facility and a domestic borrowing INR Facility of INR 40bn $850m.
The domestic borrowing programme was given AAA by CARE.
The USD Facility of $750m was provided by a consortium of overseas commercial banks led by Standard Chartered Bank and the International Finance Corporation, a member of the World Bank Group.
Of the full $750.0m facility $371.8m was drawn at 31 December 2010.
Cairn India may cancel and repay the facility at any time.
Under the terms of the facility agreement, security in terms of share pledge over the shares in Cairn Energy Hydrocarbons Limited a 100% indirect subsidiary of Cairn India Limited which holds 50% of the Groups interest in Rajasthan has been provided.
The INR Facility was underwritten by the State Bank of India, who syndicated to other banks and financial institutions, including Canara Bank, Bank of India, Oriental Bank of Commerce, Bank of Baroda, HDFC Bank and Infrastructure Development and Finance Corporation.
Cairn India settled and cancelled the INR facility following the Debenture issue.
Assets held-for-sale as at 31 December 2009 were as follows: 2009 $m Intangible exploration appraisal assets held-for-sale 10.1 Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 101 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 3 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AND ASSETS HELD-FOR-SALE continued As part settlement of the minority buy-back from Dyas in 2009, Cairn agreed to transfer to Dyas a 15% interest in the Louza licence and a 7.5% interest in the Nabeul licence, both offshore Tunisia, and a 15% interest in the Joni-5 block offshore Albania.
The three transfers were subject to approval from the respective Governments which were received during 2010.
On 31 December 2009, Cairn entered into an agreement with Oil Search Limited for the sale of the Groups 12.73% interest in Block PRL-1, Papua New Guinea.
This transaction was subject to Government approval which was received during 2010 and a gain on sale was recognised in the current year see Note 5c.
As none of the required approvals in the above transactions had been received at 31 December 2009 the assets were classified as held-for-sale.
The cash flows attributable to discontinued operations were as follows: Cairn Energy Cairn Energy Cairn India Sangu Field Cairn India Sangu Field Limited Limited Total Limited Limited Total 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 $m $m $m $m $m $m Operating 874.7 1.6 873.1 93.8 2.9 90.9 Investing 1,013.9 1,013.9 559.3 3.5 562.8 Financing 20.7 20.7 150.3 6.0 156.3 - - - - - - Net cash outflow 159.9 1.6 161.5 315.2 0.4 315.6 - - - - - - In addition to the assets and liabilities of the Cairn India disposal unit held-for-sale, the following contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements: Indian service tax One of the subsidiary companies of the Cairn India Group has received five show cause notices from the tax authorities in India for non-payment of service tax as a recipient of services from foreign suppliers.
These notices cover periods from 16 August 2002 to 31 March 2010.
A writ petition has been filed with Chennai High Court challenging the liability to pay service tax as recipient of services in respect of the first show cause notice 16 August 2002 to 31 March 2006 and another challenging the scope of some services in respect of the second show cause notice 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007.
Writ petitions for the first show cause notice were decided in favour of the subsidiary company resulting in a quashing of the demand notice of $10.6m INR 475m.
The writ petition for the second show cause notice is expected to come up for hearing in 2011.
The reply for the third and fourth show cause notice has also been filed before the authorities.
The reply to the fifth show cause notice is in process and will be submitted shortly.
Should future adjudications go against the Cairn India Group, it will be liable to pay the service tax of approximately $28.7m INR 1.3bn plus potential interest to date of approximately $9.5m INR 425m, although this could be recovered in part where it relates to services provided to the Joint Venture of which Cairn India is operator.
Indian tax holiday on gas production Section 80-IB 9 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 allows the deduction of 100% of profits from the commercial production or refining of mineral oil.
The term mineral oil is not defined but has always been understood to refer to both oil and gas, either separately or collectively.
The 2008 Indian Finance Bill appeared to remove this deduction by stating without amending section 80-IB 9 that for the purpose of section 80-IB 9, the term mineral oil does not include petroleum and natural gas, unlike in other sections of the Act.
Subsequent announcements by the Finance Minister and the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas have confirmed that the tax holiday would be available on production of crude oil but have continued to exclude gas.
Cairn India filed a writ petition to the Gujarat High Court in December 2008 challenging the restriction of section 80-IB to the production of oil.
Gujarat High Court did not admit the writ petition on the ground that the matter needs to be first decided by lower tax authorities.
An SLP has been filed before the Supreme Court against the decision of the Gujarat High court.
102 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 3 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AND ASSETS HELD-FOR-SALE continued Indian tax holiday on gas production continued In the event this challenge is unsuccessful, the potential liability for tax and related interest on tax holiday claimed on gas production for all periods to 31 December 2010 is approximately $53.5m.
A demand was raised against one of the Groups subsidiaries which included $11.2m of this amount and this has been provided for in the results for the year.
Cairn does not expect demands to be raised on the remaining $42.3m prior to a Supreme Court ruling.
Further, the tax office in India has disallowed the tax holiday claimed by Cairn India relating to condensate production for the fiscal year ending March 2007 on the basis that it is obtained from natural gas through condensation or extraction thus not included in the definition of mineral oil.
The Company will appeal against this disallowance.
The maximum tax exposure to the Group is $47.4m including related interest.
Similarly, the demand against on of the Groups subsidiaries included $2.9m of this amount which has been provided in the accounts.
4 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS Operating segments For management purposes, the Group is organised into two business units: the Capricorn Group, being Capricorn Oil Limited and its subsidiary undertakings, and the Cairn India Group, each reporting internally to its own chief executive.
There are two reportable operating segments as follows: Cairn India Limited Groups operations are primarily within India.
Capricorn Groups operations focus on new exploration activities in Greenland and the Mediterranean.
The Capricorn Group also includes the Groups interests in Nepal and a share in certain North Indian assets operated by Cairn India Limited.
This segment also included the results of the Groups Sangu asset, operating in Bangladesh which was sold during the year.
Operating segments based on the geographical locations of the Capricorn Groups Greenland, Mediterranean and South Asia operating segments have been aggregated to form the Capricorn reportable segment.
No one individual segment accounts for more than 10% of total segmental assets of the Group.
As a whole, the Capricorn Group accounts for less than 1% of total Group external revenues.
Cairn Energy PLC is disclosed and exists to accumulate the activities and results of Cairn UK Holdings Limited, an intermediate holding company and direct parent of Cairn India Limited, and Cairn Energy PLC company results.
Unallocated expenditure and net assets liabilities including amounts of a corporate nature, not specifically attributable to one of the sub-Groups, are also included within this segment.
Management monitors the results of its business units separately for the purposes of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Following the announcement of the Vedanta transaction on 16 August, the results of the Cairn India Limited Group segment are classified as discontinuing and assets and liabilities classified as held-for-sale.
Under IFRS certain presentational changes and adjustments are required to reflect that the assets and liabilities are classified as held-for-sale at the Balance Sheet date.
Throughout the year, the Board monitored the performance of the Group by reference to the combined results of its separate operating segments, Cairn India and Capricorn, following accounting policies which did not reflect the classification of assets and liabilities of Cairn India as held-for-sale.
The Board does not receive any allocation of assets or liabilities by segment.
Segmental results are therefore disclosed on this basis.
A summary of the adjustments made to reconcile the segmental results to those reported under the Groups accounting policies are included within the segmental information provided.
These adjustments include the reversal of the depletion, depreciation and amortisation charges for the period after the date the transaction was announced and a deferred tax position prepared on the basis that Cairn India was held-for-sale as at the Balance Sheet date.
The combined impact of these adjustments is to increase profit after tax by $638m.
Segment accounting policies have been amended in 2010 to reflect the change in the Groups accounting policy for the valuation of inventory as per Note 35a.
Prior year comparatives have been adjusted to reflect this change in policy.
Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 103 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 4 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued Operating segments continued The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2010 are as follows: Cairn India Capricorn Cairn Energy Total Group Group PLC 2010 $m $m $m $m Revenue from external customers 1,594.2 7.1 1,601.3 Production costs 252.5 6.3 258.8 Pre-award costs 1.9 12.7 14.6 Unsuccessful exploration costs 23.1 211.9 235.0 Depletion and decommissioning charge 351.4 0.9 352.3 - - - - Gross profit loss 965.3 224.7 740.6 Depreciation 3.4 0.5 3.9 Amortisation 3.7 2.1 5.8 Other income and administrative expenses 48.9 22.3 12.1 83.3 Exceptional administrative expenses 37.9 37.9 Impairment 16.0 16.0 Gain on sale of oil and gas assets 3.3 3.3 - - - - Operating profit loss 909.3 300.2 12.1 597.0 Interest income 24.3 1.2 0.5 26.0 Interest expense 46.8 46.8 Other finance income and costs 30.7 1.3 7.6 37.0 - - - - Profit loss before taxation 856.1 297.7 19.2 539.2 Taxation charge credit 94.1 0.3 93.8 - - - - Profit loss after taxation 762.0 297.4 19.2 445.4 Adjustments to reconcile to the financial statements Inventory 17.9 17.9 Depletion, depreciation and amortisation 211.0 211.0 Deferred taxation 444.7 444.7 - - - - Reported profit loss after taxation 1,399.8 297.4 19.2 1,083.2 - - - - Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 1,110.9 297.4 19.2 794.3 Non-controlling interests 288.9 288.9 - - - - Capital expenditure 784.5 464.4 1,248.9 - - - - 104 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 4 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued Operating segments continued The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2009 are as follows: Cairn India Total Group Capricorn Cairn Energy 2009 restated Group PLC restated $m $m $m $m Revenue from external customers 220.7 13.2 233.9 Exceptional revenue provision 64.0 64.0 - - - - 156.7 13.2 169.9 Production costs 48.6 3.9 52.5 Pre-award costs 4.7 14.0 3.7 22.4 Unsuccessful exploration costs 50.2 7.2 57.4 Depletion and decommissioning charge 55.0 5.1 60.1 - - - - Gross loss 1.8 17.0 3.7 22.5 Depreciation 3.4 0.3 3.7 Amortisation 3.2 1.5 4.7 Other income and administrative expenses 33.9 4.4 29.7 68.0 Exceptional administrative costs 29.9 29.9 Impairment 3.2 3.2 Exceptional impairment 135.6 135.6 Exceptional gain on sale of oil and gas assets 15.0 15.0 - - - - Operating loss 42.3 176.9 33.4 252.6 Exceptional gain on disposal of non-controlling interest 199.5 199.5 Interest income 42.6 0.4 0.2 43.2 Interest expense 2.1 0.1 4.4 6.6 Other finance income and costs 8.2 1.4 18.3 25.1 Exceptional finance costs 31.6 31.6 - - - - Loss before taxation 41.6 175.2 143.6 73.2 Taxation credit 70.1 70.1 Exceptional taxation credit charge 40.4 33.6 17.5 56.5 - - - - Profit loss after taxation 68.9 141.6 126.1 53.4 - - - - Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 32.5 139.6 126.1 19.0 Non-controlling interests 36.4 2.0 34.4 - - - - Capital expenditure 796.5 52.2 62.8 911.5 - - - - Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 105 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 4 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued Operating segments continued Geographic information Group Group 2010 2009 Non-current assets $m $m Greenland 261.3 16.8 UK 64.9 66.2 Other 2.6 3.5 India 2,176.0 Tunisia 19.4 Bangladesh 2.7 - - 328.8 2,284.6 - - Non-current assets for this purpose consist of intangible exploration appraisal assets: property, plant & equipment development producing assets: property, plant & equipment other: and, intangible assets other.
5 OPERATING PROFIT LOSS a Operating profit loss from continuing operations is stated after charging crediting : 2010 2009 $m $m Pre-award costs 12.7 17.7 Unsuccessful exploration costs 211.9 7.2 Impairment of goodwill Note 16 4.4 Provision for onerous contracts Note 25 0.5 2.3 Depreciation of property, plant & equipment other 0.4 0.2 Amortisation of intangible assets other 2.1 1.4 Operating lease costs land and buildings 1.9 2.0 other 0.2 0.2 Impairment of intangible exploration appraisal assets Note 13 11.6 135.6 Gain on sale of intangible exploration appraisal assets Note 5c 12.6 Exceptional gain on sale of intangible exploration appraisal assets Note 6 15.0 Auditors remuneration $000 $000 Fees payable to the Groups auditor for the audit of the Groups annual accounts 308 390 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 25 25 Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for other services: for the audit of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 935 854 other services pursuant to legislation 568 88 other services relating to taxation 70 61 all other services 54 174 Fees in respect of the Cairn Energy PLC pension scheme audit 2 2 Other advisors fees in respect of taxation work 307 78 Other advisors fees in respect of other work 304 781 The Group has a policy in place for the award of non-audit work to the auditors which, in certain circumstances, requires Audit Committee approval.
Other advisors comprise accountancy firms other than the Groups auditor.
106 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 5 OPERATING PROFIT LOSS continued b Impairment and exceptional impairment 2010 2009 $m $m Impairment of intangible exploration appraisal assets 11.6 Impairment of goodwill 4.4 Exceptional impairment of intangible exploration appraisal assets 135.6 - - 16.0 135.6 - - At the year end the Group reviews the carrying value of cash generating units within intangible exploration appraisal assets for indicators of impairment or reversal of prior year impairment.
The review at 31 December 2010 determined that indicators existed on a certain asset and, with no remaining producing assets to support the carrying value, this asset was impaired.
Consequently $3.7m has been charged to the Income Statement.
A further $7.9m of impairment was charged in 2010 on certain intangible exploration appraisal assets prior to classification as assets held-for-sale.
At 31 December 2009, the review of intangible exploration appraisal assets for indicators of impairment and subsequent impairment test resulted in a write down of $135.6m which has been classified as an exceptional charge against profit as it results from the assets transferred in the buy back of non-controlling interest in the year.
See Note 6 for further details.
Goodwill relating to the acquisition of the Capricorn Groups Mediterranean assets in prior years has been fully impaired following the unsuccessful drilling programme in 2010 and the decision to sell the Groups remaining Tunisian asset.
See Note 16 for further details.
Refer to details on the reasons for impairments in Notes 13 and 16 and Note 1 g for details of the assumptions used in the impairment calculation.
c Gain on sale of oil and gas assets On 31 December 2009, Cairn entered into an agreement with Oil Search Limited for the sale of the Groups 12.73% interest in Block PRL-1, Papua New Guinea.
This transaction received Government approval during 2010 and a gain of $12.6m was recognised on the sale in the current year.
6 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 2010 2009 $m $m Administrative expenses 35.6 27.8 Impairment of intangible exploration appraisal assets 135.6 Gain on sale of intangible exploration appraisal assets 15.0 Gain on disposal of non-controlling interest in Cairn India Limited 199.5 Taxation 16.1 - - 35.6 67.2 - - Administrative expenses share-based payments At an EGM held on 21 December 2009, Cairns shareholders approved the conversion of phantom options awarded in 2007 and 2008 based on notional Units in the Group into Cairn Energy PLC Share options and LTIPs.
In accordance with IFRS 2, the incremental fair value of the modified awards, calculated at the date of modification, is charged over the remaining vesting period.
A net charge of $35.6m is therefore recognised in the Income Statement as a result of this modification and in order to be comparable with 2009 this has also been included as an exceptional charge.
A charge of $27.8m was generated in 2009.
Further details can be found in Note 27.
Gain on disposal of non-controlling interest in Cairn India Limited and farm-out of exploration appraisal assets On 14 October 2009, Cairn entered into an agreement with Petronas to dispose of a further 2.29% of the Groups holding in Cairn India Limited and farm-out a 10% interest in each of the six Cairn operated Greenland exploration licences.
Total consideration receivable from Petronas was $310.0m of which $241.4m related to the Cairn India Limited shares with the remaining $68.6m allocated across the Greenland assets.
At 31 December 2009 a balance of $63.5m was due to Cairn.
The disposal of the Cairn India Limited shares resulted in a gain of $199.5m and reduced the Companys indirect percentage shareholding in Cairn India Limited to 62.39% at 31 December 2009.
Capital gains tax on the sale of $17.5m was charged to the Income Statement.
Under the Groups accounting policy proceeds on the disposal of intangible exploration appraisal assets were initially credited against previously capitalised costs in the Balance Sheet.
Surplus proceeds remaining were credited to the Income Statement recognising a gain of $15.0m.
Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 107 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 6 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS continued Gain on disposal of non-controlling interest in Cairn India Limited and farm-out of exploration appraisal assets continued Petronas has an option to increase its interest to 20% in any development in these blocks, in return for payment of further consideration to reflect a market valuation of the additional 10% interest at that time.
Impairment of intangible exploration appraisal assets On 30 November 2009, Cairn announced the acquisition of the 9.99% non-controlling interest held by Dyas in Capricorn Oil Limited.
Total consideration for the purchase of the Capricorn shares was $103.7m payable in $91.3m PLC shares, $3.7m cash and the transfer of 15% of Capricorns working interests in the Tunisian and Albanian licences.
Prior to the transfer, an impairment test was performed based on fair value less cost to sell resulting in an impairment charge of $135.6m with an associated deferred tax credit of $33.6m.
7 STAFF COSTS 2010 2009 $m $m Wages and salaries 117.9 106.2 Social security costs and other taxes 2.2 2.1 Pension costs 8.1 7.4 Share-based payments charge 29.4 24.3 Exceptional share-based payments charge Note 6 45.1 35.3 - - 202.7 175.3 - - Staff costs are shown gross before amounts recharged to Joint Ventures and include the costs of share-based payments.
The share-based payments charge includes amounts in respect of both equity and cash-settled phantom options and associated National Insurance Contributions.
Staff costs include costs of discontinued operations.
The average number of full time equivalent employees, including executive directors and individuals employed by the Group working on Joint Venture operations, was: Number of employees 2010 2009 UK 105 88 India 1,079 857 Bangladesh 65 69 Tunisia 4 6 Greenland 6 - - Group 1,259 1,020 - - The average number of full time equivalent employees includes staff employed by discontinued operations during the year.
8 DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS Details of each directors remuneration, pension entitlements, share options and awards pursuant to the LTIP are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 83.
Directors emoluments are also equivalent to the remuneration of key management personnel disclosures in Note 34.
9 FINANCE INCOME 2010 2009 $m $m Bank interest 1.5 0.6 Other interest 0.2 Exchange gain 0.8 - - 2.5 0.6 - - 108 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 10 FINANCE COSTS 2010 2009 $m $m Other finance charges 7.2 4.4 Exchange loss 17.0 - - 7.2 21.4 - - 11 TAXATION ON LOSS PROFIT a Analysis of tax credit expense in year 2009 2010 restated Notes $m $m Current tax: UK corporation tax Tax on profits at 28.00% 2009: 28.00% 2.9 - - 2.9 Foreign Tax Indian Corporate Income Tax on profits for the year at 42.23% 2009: 42.23% 28.5 6.3 Indian Regular Tax on profits for the year at 33.99% 2009: 33.99% 1.3 6.4 Indian Minimum Alternate Tax on profits for the year at 18.27% 2009: 14.53% 208.8 17.5 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 14.4 5.8 Withholding taxes deducted at source 0.1 0.1 - - 250.5 36.1 Exceptional current tax Indian tax on capital gains at 21.12% 2009: 21.12% 17.5 - - Total current tax 253.4 53.6 - - Deferred tax: United Kingdom Temporary differences in respect of non-current assets 0.4 - - 0.4 India Temporary differences in respect of non-current assets 603.9 101.6 Other temporary differences 4.6 - - 603.9 106.2 Exceptional deferred tax Temporary differences in respect of non-current assets 33.6 Other temporary differences 40.4 - - 74.0 - - Total deferred tax 22 604.3 180.2 - - Tax credit on profit 350.9 126.6 - - The tax credit to the income statement is disclosed as follows: Tax credit on continuing operations 0.3 Tax credit on discontinuing operations 350.6 70.1 Exceptional tax credit on continuing operations 16.1 Exceptional tax credit on discontinuing operations 40.4 - - 350.9 126.6 - - Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 109 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 11 TAXATION ON LOSS PROFIT continued b Factors affecting tax credit expense for year A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to profit before income tax at the applicable tax rate to income tax expense at the Groups effective income tax rate is as follows: 2009 2010 restated $m $m Loss from continuing operations before tax 303.6 26.9 Profit loss from discontinuing operations before tax 1,035.9 46.3 - - Profit loss before taxation 732.3 73.2 - - Tax at the weighted average rate of corporation tax of 48.90% 2009: 55.33% 358.1 40.5 Effects of: Minimum Alternate Tax payable 56.8 17.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years current tax 14.4 5.8 Temporary differences not recognised 1.4 62.3 Gain on disposal of investments 1.7 Gain on disposal of non-controlling interest 55.9 Impairment of non-qualifying assets 17.0 Share-based payments 15.5 11.0 Indian tax holiday 205.4 164.0 Non-deductible expenses and non-taxable income 3.3 13.6 Indian tax on capital gain 17.5 Withholding tax 0.1 0.1 Foreign exchange movements 17.4 11.0 Change of rate applied to assets classified as held-for-sale 444.7 Utilisation of brought forward losses 131.9 - - Total tax credit 350.9 126.6 - - The applicable tax rate was the weighted average rate for the year of the UK, Netherlands, Australian, Indian, Jersey, Swiss, Bangladeshi, Tunisian, Sri Lankan, Singaporean and Mauritian tax rates.
There were no major changes in the statutory tax rates applying in each of these jurisdictions, however, the weighted average rate is subject to fluctuations from year to year based on the level of profits and losses which arise to the Group in each jurisdiction.
The reason for the change of rate applied to assets classified as held-for-sale is disclosed in Note 3. c Factors that may affect future corporation tax charges At 31 December 2010, Cairn had losses of approximately $237.1m 2009: $527.3m available for offset against future trading profits chargeable to UK Corporation Tax.
In addition there are surplus management expenses of $192.3m 2009: $141.4m and non-trade deficits of $19.6m 2009: $21.9m available for offset against future investment income.
None of the trading losses, surplus management expenses or non-trade deficits has been recognised for deferred tax as it is not considered sufficiently probable that they will be used.
Under UK tax law, tax losses may generally be carried forward indefinitely.
110 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 12 EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE Basic and diluted earning per share are calculated using the following measures of loss profit: 2010 2009 Notes $m $m Loss for the year continuing operations 303.3 10.8 Profit for the year discontinuing operations attributable to the equity holders of the parent 3 1,097.6 29.8 - - Profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent 794.3 19.0 Less potential increase in non-controlling interests discontinued operations 2.4 0.1 - - Diluted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 791.9 18.9 - - Analysed as: Diluted loss attributable to equity holders of the parent continuing operations 303.3 10.8 Diluted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent discontinued operations 1,095.2 29.7 - - 791.9 18.9 - - The following reflects the share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 2010 2009 000 000 Weighted average number of shares 1,398,761 1,365,117 Less weighted average shares held by ESOP and SIP Trusts 2,127 10,984 - - Basic weighted average number of shares 1,396,634 1,354,133 Dilutive potential ordinary shares: Employee share options 2,151 1,357 - - Diluted weighted average number of shares 1,398,785 1,355,490 - - Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 111 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 13 INTANGIBLE EXPLORATION APPRAISAL ASSETS Cairn India Capricorn Group Group Total Group $m $m $m Cost At 1 January 2009 370.6 265.8 636.4 Exchange differences arising 1.1 1.1 Additions 40.3 51.2 91.5 Transfers to property, plant and equipment development producing assets 19.0 19.0 Disposals 53.2 53.2 Unsuccessful exploration costs 50.2 7.2 57.4 Transfers to assets held-for-sale 10.1 10.1 - - - At 1 January 2010 340.6 246.5 587.1 Exchange differences arising 1.8 1.8 Additions 60.8 460.5 521.3 Disposals 74.1 74.1 Unsuccessful exploration costs 23.1 281.1 304.2 Transfers to assets held-for-sale 376.5 77.2 453.7 - - - At 31 December 2010 274.6 274.6 - - - Impairment At 1 January 2009 73.4 73.4 Impairment 1.9 1.9 Exceptional impairment 135.6 135.6 - - - At 1 January 2010 210.9 210.9 Impairment 11.6 11.6 Disposals 65.8 65.8 Unsuccessful exploration costs 69.2 69.2 Transfers to assets held-for-sale 75.7 75.7 - - - At 31 December 2010 11.8 11.8 - - - Net book value at 31 December 2010 262.8 262.8 - - - Net book value at 31 December 2009 340.6 35.6 376.2 - - - Net book value at 1 January 2009 370.6 192.4 563.0 - - - Cairn India Group assets reclassified as held-for-sale Note 3 of $376.5m in 2010 are those assets which are being held-for-sale pending completion of the Vedanta transaction.
See Note 3 for further details.
In addition $1.5m of costs net of impairment relating to the Nabeul licence were also included within assets held-for-sale.
In 2009 assets held-for-sale included intangible exploration appraisal assets being transferred on the buy back of the non-controlling interest in Capricorn and costs relating to the Groups Papua New Guinea interest.
Prior to the re-classification, these assets were tested for impairment and an impairment charge of $135.6m recognised accordingly.
Full details of the transfer of assets and resulting impairment loss can be found in Note 6.
In April 2010, Cairn completed an exploration well offshore Tunisia in the Louza block.
Although minor evidence of light oil was observed, the expected target reservoir was not developed in the well.
The well has therefore been plugged and abandoned without testing.
As a result, all related costs are charged to the Income Statement as unsuccessful exploration costs.
As $69.2m of these costs were previously impaired, the impairments have been released on relinquishment of the block.
In Greenland the T8-1 well, which encountered gas in thin sands, has been plugged and abandoned.
The T4-1 well, which was targeting a Tertiary objective at a different stratigraphic level to T8-1, failed to encounter any significant hydrocarbons and found only thin reservoir sands, although geochemical analyses continues on selective samples.
As the T8-1 and T4-1 wells did not result in commercial discoveries the well costs, including all associated demobilisation and other costs, of $186.1m were charged to the Income Statement as unsuccessful exploration costs.
The primary objectives of the third Greenland exploration well drilled on the Alpha prospect were not reached and the well has been suspended for future re-entry work depending on the results of further evaluation.
Costs of the Alpha well, totalling $202.6m, remain in exploration appraisal assets.
In December 2010 Cairn disposed of its interests in the Bangladesh licences to Santos.
This triggered a release of previous impairments of $65.8m.
112 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 13 INTANGIBLE EXPLORATION APPRAISAL ASSETS continued At the year end or prior to the intangible exploration appraisal assets being transferred to assets held-for-sale, the Group reviews intangible exploration assets for indicators of impairment.
Where an indicator is identified, the asset is tested for impairment.
As at 31 December 2010, indicators were found on two assets held by the Capricorn Group where uncertain future drilling plans or other facts or circumstances existing indicated that the carrying value of the assets may not be recovered.
As no development producing assets remain in the cash generating unit of the Capricorn Group an impairment of $11.6m was identified and charged to the Income Statement in full.
In 2009, exploration appraisal costs of $1.9m relating to Bangladesh assets have been impaired.
See Note 5 b for further details of the impairment review.
Disposals in 2009 relate to the farm-out of a 10% interest in each of Cairns operated Greenland licences to Petronas.
A gain on disposal of $15.0m is recognised in the Income Statement.
Exploration costs transferred to property, plant & equipment development producing assets Note 14 during 2009 of $19.0m represent general exploration costs allocated to successful exploration activities in Rajasthan in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
14 PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT DEVELOPMENT PRODUCING ASSETS Cairn India Capricorn Group Group Total Group $m $m $m Cost At 1 January 2009 1,399.4 84.6 1,484.0 Additions 751.6 0.2 751.4 Transfers from intangible exploration appraisal assets 19.0 19.0 - - - At 1 January 2010 2,170.0 84.4 2,254.4 Additions 716.6 1.5 718.1 Disposals 85.9 85.9 Transfers to assets held-for-sale 2,886.6 2,886.6 - - - At 31 December 2010 - - - Depletion and decommissioning At 1 January 2009 286.7 77.7 364.4 Charge for the year 55.0 5.1 60.1 Impairment 1.3 1.3 - - - At 1 January 2010 341.7 84.1 425.8 Charge for the year 142.7 0.9 143.6 Disposals 85.0 85.0 Transfers to assets held-for-sale 484.4 484.4 - - - At 31 December 2010 - - - Net book value at 31 December 2010 - - - Net book value at 31 December 2009 1,828.3 0.3 1,828.6 - - - Net book value at 1 January 2009 1,112.7 6.9 1,119.6 - - - Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 113 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 14 PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT DEVELOPMENT PRODUCING ASSETS continued Included within additions during the year is an amount of $28.5m of directly attributable borrowing costs 2009: $35.1m.
The net book value at 31 December 2010 included $135.3m in respect of assets under construction which are not yet subject to depletion: this has been transferred to assets held-for-sale.
The 2009 net book value includes $584.2m of assets under construction not yet subject to depletion.
Assets reclassified as held-for-sale Note 3 of $2,402.2m in 2010 are the assets of Cairn India which are being held-for-sale pending completion of the Vedanta transaction.
In December 2010 Cairn disposed of its interests in Sangu, the Capricorn Groups sole development producing asset, to Santos.
At the year end, and prior to the Cairn India assets being transferred to assets held-for-sale, the Group reviews the carrying value of cash generating units within property, plant & equipment development producing assets for indicators of impairment or reversal of prior year impairment.
This review determined that there was no impairment of assets.
In 2009 the value of certain units within the Capricorn Group was below the carrying value resulting in an impairment charge of $1.3m.
Exploration costs transferred from intangible exploration appraisal assets Note 13 during 2009 of $19.0m represent general exploration costs allocated to successful exploration activities in Rajasthan in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
15 PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT OTHER Tenants Vehicles and improvements equipment Total Group $m $m $m Cost At 1 January 2009 13.2 10.2 23.4 Exchange differences arising 0.3 0.6 0.9 Additions 0.3 1.5 1.8 Disposals 4.1 1.7 5.8 - - - At 1 January 2010 9.7 10.6 20.3 Exchange differences arising 0.1 0.1 Additions 0.2 3.4 3.6 Disposals 1.2 1.2 Transfer to assets held-for-sale 8.5 8.1 16.6 - - - At 31 December 2010 1.4 4.6 6.0 - - - Depreciation At 1 January 2009 6.6 8.2 14.8 Exchange differences arising 0.1 0.6 0.7 Charge for the year 2.3 1.4 3.7 Disposals 4.1 1.7 5.8 - - - At 1 January 2010 4.9 8.5 13.4 Exchange differences arising 0.1 0.1 Charge for the year 1.8 0.9 2.7 Disposals 1.1 1.1 Transfer to assets held-for-sale 6.0 4.0 10.0 - - - At 31 December 2010 0.7 4.2 4.9 - - - Net book value at 31 December 2010 0.7 0.4 1.1 - - - Net book value at 31 December 2009 4.8 2.1 6.9 - - - Net book value at 1 January 2009 6.6 2.0 8.6 - - - The net book value of assets held under finance leases or hire purchase contract at 31 December 2010 was $nil 2009: $4.0m.
Leased assets are pledged as security for the related finance lease or hire purchase liability.
114 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 15 PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT OTHER continued Tenants Vehicles and improvements equipment Total Company $m $m $m Cost At 1 January 2009 1.9 0.6 2.5 Exchange differences arising 0.3 0.3 Disposals 1.3 0.6 1.9 - - - At 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2010 0.9 0.9 - - - Depreciation At 1 January 2009 1.7 0.5 2.2 Exchange differences arising 0.1 0.1 Charge for the year 0.1 0.1 Disposals 1.3 0.5 1.8 - - - At 1 January 2010 0.6 0.6 Charge for the year 0.1 0.1 - - - At 31 December 2010 0.7 0.7 - - - Net book value at 31 December 2010 0.2 0.2 - - - Net book value at 31 December 2009 0.3 0.3 - - - Net book value at 1 January 2009 0.2 0.1 0.3 - - - The Company does not hold assets under finance leases or hire purchase contracts.
Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 115 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 16 INTANGIBLE ASSETS OTHER Software Goodwill costs Total Group $m $m $m Cost At 1 January 2009 4.4 21.4 25.8 Exchange differences arising 0.8 0.8 Additions 62.8 4.0 66.8 Disposals 4.7 4.7 - - - At 1 January 2010 67.2 21.5 88.7 Exchange differences arising 0.2 0.2 Additions 5.9 5.9 Disposals 1.8 1.8 Transfer to assets held-for-sale 16.5 16.5 - - - At 31 December 2010 67.2 8.9 76.1 - - - Amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2009 15.1 15.1 Exchange differences arising 0.7 0.7 Charge for the year 4.7 4.7 Disposals 4.7 4.7 - - - At 1 January 2010 15.8 15.8 Exchange differences arising 0.2 0.2 Charge for the year 4.7 4.7 Impairment 4.4 4.4 Disposals 1.8 1.8 Transfer to assets held-for-sale 11.7 11.7 - - - At 31 December 2010 4.4 6.8 11.2 - - - Net book value at 31 December 2010 62.8 2.1 64.9 - - - Net book value at 31 December 2009 67.2 5.7 72.9 - - - Net book value at 1 January 2009 4.4 6.3 10.7 - - - Goodwill was previously tested for impairment at the Balance Sheet date against the carrying value of the cash generating unit, being the combined Capricorn Group cash-generating unit equivalent to the reported operating segment.
Following clarifications to IFRS effective during the current year, testing goodwill for impairment is now performed on the cash-generating unit equating to individual operating segments before they are combined into the reported segment.
Goodwill has therefore been allocated to two cash generating units which are also operating segments combined within the Capricorn Group reported segment: the Greenland assets operating segment and the Mediterranean assets operating segment.
The recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is determined by taking the higher of fair value less costs to sell or its value-in-use, using estimated cash flow projections over the licence period of the exploration assets risk-weighted for future exploration success.
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculation are disclosed in Note 1 g. The key assumptions are sensitive to market fluctuations and the success of future exploration drilling programmes.
The most likely factor which will result in a material change to the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is the results of future exploration drilling, which will determine the licence areas future economic potential.
During 2010, $4.4m of goodwill relating to the Groups Mediterranean assets has been fully impaired following the unsuccessful exploration drilling in 2010.
No impairment was charged in 2009.
Additions to goodwill in 2009 arose on the acquisition by Cairn of the 9.99% non-controlling interest held by Dyas in Capricorn Oil Limited.
The non-controlling interest was created in 2007 when Dyas acquired its holding in Capricorn with the group recording a gain on deemed disposal of $40.0m in that year.
Total consideration for the purchase of the Capricorn shares was $102.5m.
With the non-controlling interest at the date of the transaction being $41.0m, goodwill of $62.8m was recognised on the buy-back after deducting further costs resulting from the transaction.
This goodwill is allocated to the Greenland assets cash generating unit for impairment testing and represents the balance of goodwill remaining at 31 December 2010.
If future exploration drilling in Greenland proves unsuccessful, goodwill will be impaired in full.
116 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 17 INVESTMENTS Subsidiary undertakings Total restated restated Company $m $m Cost and net book value At 1 January 2009 484.0 484.0 Exchange differences arising 49.1 49.1 Additions 116.9 116.9 - At 1 January 2010 650.0 650.0 Exchange differences arising 14.8 14.8 Additions 283.2 283.2 - At 31 December 2010 918.4 918.4 - Additions in the year include the issue of 174,514,323 shares of 1 each at par by Capricorn Oil Limited.
Consideration of $265.0m was settled in cash.
A further $18.2m 2009: $13.2m was recognised as additions relating to Capricorn Oil Group for the award of share options of the Company to the employees of Capricorn Energy a principal subsidiary of Capricorn Oil Limited.
For details of the prior year restatement in respect of these awards refer to Note 35 b.
Additions in 2009 of $103.7m represent the buy back of the 9.99% non-controlling interest in Capricorn Oil Limited from Dyas.
Included in the total consideration is $3.7m directly settled by means of cash and cash equivalents.
The Companys principal subsidiaries as at the Balance Sheet date are set out below.
A full list of subsidiaries can be found on the Annual Return: Proportion of voting rights Country of Country of and ordinary Company Principal activity incorporation operation shares Direct holdings Capricorn Oil Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland 100% Cairn UK Holdings Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland 100% Indirect holdings Capricorn Oil Limited Group Capricorn Energy Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland 100% Cairn Energy Dhangari Limited Exploration Scotland Nepal 100% Cairn Energy Karnali Limited Exploration Scotland Nepal 100% Cairn Energy Lumbini Limited Exploration Scotland Nepal 100% Cairn Energy Malangawa Limited Exploration Scotland Nepal 100% Cairn Energy Birganj Limited Exploration Scotland Nepal 100% medOil plc Exploration England & Wales Tunisia 100% Capricorn Albania Limited Exploration Scotland Albania 100% Capricorn Spain Limited Exploration Scotland Scotland 100% Capricorn Oil and Gas Tunisia GmbH Exploration Switzerland Tunisia 100% Capricorn Greenland Exploration 1 Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland 100% Capricorn Greenland Exploration 2 Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland 100% Capricorn Greenland Exploration 3 Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland 100% Capricorn Greenland Exploration 4 Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland 100% Capricorn Greenland Exploration 5 Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland 100% Capricorn Greenland Exploration 6 Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland 100% Capricorn Greenland Exploration 7 Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland 100% Capricorn Greenland Exploration 8 Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland 100% Capricorn Greenland Exploration 9 Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland 100% Capricorn Greenland Exploration 10 Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland 100% Capricorn Atammik Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland 100% Capricorn Lady Franklin Limited Exploration Scotland Greenland 100% Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 117 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 17 INVESTMENTS continued Proportion of voting rights Country of Country of and ordinary Company Principal activity incorporation operation shares Indirect holdings Cairn UK Holdings Limited Group including Cairn India Limited Group Cairn India Limited Holding company India India 62.25% Cairn India Holdings Limited Holding company Jersey Jersey 62.25% Cairn Energy Holdings Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland 62.25% Cairn Energy Hydrocarbons Limited Exploration & production Scotland India 62.25% Cairn Energy India Pty Limited Exploration & production Australia India 62.25% Cairn Energy India West B. V. Exploration & production The Netherlands India 62.25% Cairn Energy Cambay B. V. Exploration & production The Netherlands India 62.25% Cairn Energy Gujarat B. V. Exploration & production The Netherlands India 62.25% CIG Mauritius Private Limited Exploration Mauritius Mauritius 62.25% Cairn Lanka Private Limited Exploration Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 62.25% Cairn Energy Developments Pte Limited Exploration Singapore India 62.25% Cairn Lanka Private Limited Exploration Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 62.25% There is a restriction in the ability of some Group companies to distribute profits to Cairn Energy PLC, the ultimate parent company, as a result of negative distributable reserves in Cairn Energy Holdings Limited, an intermediate holding company.
18 INVENTORY Group Group 31 December Company Company 31 December 2009 31 December 31 December 2010 restated 2010 2009 $m $m $m $m Oil and condensate inventories 10.7 - - - - 19 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Group Group Company Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 $m $m $m $m Trade receivables 31.4 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 92.8 246.6 Other debtors 26.1 134.8 0.4 0.7 Joint Venture debtors 12.3 159.9 - - - - 38.4 326.1 93.2 247.3 Prepayments 1.0 20.5 0.1 0.4 - - - - 39.4 346.6 93.3 247.7 - - - - Due to the nature of the business in 2009, 7 customers accounted for 100% of trade receivables.
In 2010, the trade receivables have been disposed of or transferred to assets held-for-sale refer to Note 3.
118 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 19 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES continued As at 31 December, the ageing analysis of trade and other receivables, excluding prepayments, is set out below: Total 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-120 days 120 days Group $m $m $m $m $m $m 2010 Neither past due nor impaired 38.4 38.4 - - - - - - As at 31 December 2010 38.4 38.4 - - - - - - 2009 Neither past due nor impaired 313.7 313.7 Past due but not impaired 12.4 8.6 0.1 0.1 0.2 3.4 Past due and impaired 85.4 6.4 2.1 76.9 Allowance for doubtful debts 85.4 6.4 2.1 76.9 - - - - - - As at 31 December 2009 326.1 322.3 0.1 0.1 0.2 3.4 - - - - - - The movement in allowance for doubtful debts individually or collectively impaired is set out below: Trade Other Joint Venture receivables debtors debtors Total $m $m $m $m As at 1 January 2009 27.2 12.2 60.9 100.3 Amounts written off during year 12.2 12.2 Increase in allowance capitalised in the Balance Sheet 18.7 18.7 Release of allowance recognised in the Balance Sheet 14.8 14.8 Release of allowance recognised in the Income Statement 6.6 6.6 - - - - As at 1 January 2010 5.8 79.6 85.4 Amounts written off during year 0.1 0.1 Release of increase in allowance recognised in the Balance Sheet 5.7 4.1 1.6 Transferred to assets held-for-sale 83.7 83.7 - - - - As at 31 December 2010 - - - - The movements during the year relate to amounts with corresponding balances in trade receivables, deferred income or other creditors in the Balance Sheet therefore do not affect the Income Statement.
In determining the recoverability of a trade or other receivable, the Group carries out a risk analysis based on the type and age of the outstanding receivable.
Included in the allowance for doubtful debts are individually impaired Joint Venture debtors with a balance of $83.7m 2009: $79.6m.
These predominantly relate to outstanding Rajasthan cash calls which are currently being pursued by management.
The increase in allowance recognised in the Income Statement for impaired Joint Venture debtors in 2010 is included in unsuccessful exploration costs.
Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 119 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 20 NET FUNDS Group Group Company Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 $m $m $m $m Bank deposits 13.2 Cash and cash equivalents 187.0 1,176.5 45.6 158.4 Loans and borrowings Note 24 666.1 - - - - 187.0 523.6 45.6 158.4 Bank deposits held in discontinued operations 452.6 Cash and cash equivalents held in discontinued operations 438.5 Loans and borrowings held in discontinued operations 673.7 - - - - Net cash 404.4 523.6 45.6 158.4 - - - - Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods from overnight deposits to three months depending on the cash requirements of the Group and Company.
At the year end the Group has no deposits 2009: $33.6m in Sri Lanka Rupee in Sri Lanka which are not readily convertible into other currencies.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprises the following: Group Group Company Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 187.0 1,176.5 45.6 158.4 Cash and cash equivalents held in discontinued operations 438.5 - - - - 625.5 1,176.5 45.6 158.4 - - - - 21 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Group Group Company Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 $m $m $m $m Trade payables 1.5 5.0 0.1 0.4 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 78.1 230.1 Other taxation and social security 3.8 2.2 2.0 0.3 Other creditors 13.7 25.8 0.8 13.3 Joint Venture creditors 2.6 104.2 Accruals 15.9 38.5 1.4 9.8 Joint venture accruals 39.5 172.8 - - - - 77.0 348.5 82.4 253.9 - - - - 120 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 22 DEFERRED TAXATION Liabilities Group Assets restated restated $m $m $m At 1 January 2009 259.7 259.7 Charge to Income Statement 180.2 180.2 - - - At 1 January 2010 79.5 79.5 Credit to Income Statement 524.8 79.5 604.3 Transferred to assets held-for-sale 524.8 524.8 - - - At 31 December 2010 - - - Liabilities Group Assets restated restated $m $m $m Deferred taxation UK Accelerated allowances 0.4 0.4 - - - 0.4 0.4 - - - Deferred taxation India Accelerated allowances 133.7 133.7 Other temporary differences 54.6 54.6 - - - 79.1 79.1 - - - Total deferred taxation as at 31 December 2009 79.5 79.5 - - - As at 31 December 2010, the Group had a deferred tax asset of $11.9m 2009: $24.3m in respect of future United Kingdom corporation tax deductions for equity-based remuneration.
This asset has not been recognised as it is not considered probable that there will be sufficient profits to utilise these tax deductions.
As at the Balance Sheet date, a deferred tax asset was not recognised in respect of Group losses of $449.0m 2009: $1,215.0m Company: $157.6m: 2009: $141.4m where it is not probable that they can be utilised in future periods.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised at 31 December 2010 or at 31 December 2009 in respect of trading or other losses, as it is not considered to be probable that these losses will be utilised against future trading or other profits arising to the Group.
At the Balance Sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was $428.0m 2009: $398.5m.
No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because Cairn is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that, as a result of the proposed sale, these differences will reverse with no impact on future taxation.
Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 121 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 23 OBLIGATIONS UNDER FINANCE LEASES The Group has finance leases for various items of tenants improvements and office equipment, all of which provide the specific entity which holds the lease with the option to purchase.
Future finance lease commitments are as follows: Present value of Minimum lease payments minimum lease payments 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 Group $m $m $m $m Amounts payable: Within one year 1.8 1.5 Between two and five years 2.2 2.0 - - - - 4.0 3.5 Less: future finance charges 0.5 - - - - Present value of lease obligations 3.5 3.5 - - - - Finance lease obligations have been reclassified as liabilities related to disposal units held-for-sale.
In 2009 the average lease term was between 4 and 5 years.
For the period ended 31 December 2009, the average effective borrowing rate was 19.33%.
Interest rates are fixed at the contract date.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors rights over the leased assets.
The Company does not have any obligations under finance leases.
24 LOANS AND BORROWINGS Group Group Company Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 $m $m $m $m Loans and borrowings 666.1 - - - - Loans and borrowings have been re-classified as liabilities related to disposal units held-for-sale.
122 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 25 PROVISIONS Ravva Other arbitration Decommissioning provisions provision Total Group $m $m $m $m At 1 January 2009 23.7 5.0 28.7 Change in decommissioning estimate 1.6 1.6 Increase of provision 12.5 95.6 108.1 Provision utilised 6.0 65.0 71.0 Discount unwound in the year 1.7 1.7 - - - - At 1 January 2010 27.0 11.5 30.6 69.1 Change in decommissioning estimate 147.6 147.6 Increase of provision 1.3 28.2 29.5 Provision utilised 3.3 3.3 Discount unwound in the year 2.6 2.6 Exchange differences arising 0.1 0.1 Transfer to liabilities held-for-sale 177.2 6.8 58.8 242.8 - - - - At 31 December 2010 2.8 2.8 - - - - At 31 December 2010 Current 2.8 2.8 Non-current - - - - 2.8 2.8 - - - - At 31 December 2009 Current 8.3 30.6 38.9 Non-current 27.0 3.2 30.2 - - - - 27.0 11.5 30.6 69.1 - - - - Decommissioning costs which were expected to be incurred between 2016 and 2041 31 December 2009: 2015 and 2041 have been transferred to liabilities related to disposal units held-for-sale.
The provision has been estimated using existing technology at current prices and discounted using a real discount rate of 7% p. a.
2009: 7% p. a.. A re-assessment of the estimated costs of decommissioning the Rajasthan producing facilities undertaken during 2010 led to an increase in the decommissioning estimate of $147.6m.
Other provisions remaining at 31 December 2010 of $2.8m 2009: $2.3m relate to a provision for onerous contracts relating to the Groups Sangu asset which remains post disposal of the Groups interests in the asset.
Further provisions in 2009 represented $8.8m relating to phantom options awarded to certain employees in India, the remaining balance has been transferred to liabilities related to disposal units held-for-sale.
A provision of $95.6m regarding the Ravva arbitration proceedings was made during 2009.
Payments withheld by the buyers of Ravva crude on the instruction of GoI have been offset against current profit petroleum payments due to GoI with the remaining excess offset against the provision.
During 2010, the GoI issued further demand notices and withheld payments to recover 2009 2010 and 2010 2011 current profit petroleum payments due.
The provision has therefore increased to $58.8m prior to classification as liabilities related to disposal units held-for-sale.
Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 123 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 26 ISSUED CAPITAL AND RESERVES Authorised Share Capital Number Number 2 8 6 13p 13p Ordinary Ordinary Group and Company 000 000 Authorised ordinary shares At 1 January and 31 December 2008 365,625 Subdivision of shares 365,625 3,656,250 - - At 31 December 2009 3,656,250 - - The restriction on the authorised share capital was revoked at the AGM on 20 May 2010, following the adoption of new Articles of Association.
A company is no longer required to have an authorised share capital under the Companies Act 2006.
Number Number 2 8 2 8 6 13p 13p 6 13p 13p Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary 000 000 $m $m Allotted, issued and fully paid ordinary shares At 1 January 2009 131,131 15.8 Shares issued in period for cash 6,542 0.6 Shares issued in period on buy back of non-controlling interest 1,800 0.2 Issued and allotted for employee share options pre subdivision 137 Subdivision of shares 139,610 1,396,103 16.6 16.6 Issued and allotted for employee share options post subdivision 143 - - - - At 1 January 2010 1,396,246 16.6 Issued and allotted for employee share options 3,801 0.1 - - - - At 31 December 2010 1,400,047 16.7 - - - - On 11 March 2009, Cairn completed a placing of 6,542,270 new ordinary shares at a price of 1,775 pence per share.
The gross proceeds of the placement were $161.0m.
On 30 November 2009, Cairn announced the acquisition of the 9.99% non-controlling interest held by Dyas in Capricorn Oil Limited.
The consideration payable to Dyas included 1,800,000 PLC shares, see Note 6 for further details of this transaction.
At an extraordinary general meeting held on 21 December 2009, it was resolved that the 2 8 139,610,295 ordinary shares of 6 13 pence each be replaced by 1,396,102,950 new ordinary shares of 13 pence each.
Share premium 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 Group and Company $m $m At 1 January 473.5 219.0 Arising on shares issued for cash 157.2 Arising on buy-back of non-controlling interest 92.6 Arising on shares issued for employee share options 11.2 4.7 - - At 31 December 484.7 473.5 - - Other reserves All other reserves are stated in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
124 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 26 ISSUED CAPITAL AND RESERVES continued Shares held by ESOP Trust Shares held by the ESOP Trust represent the cost of shares held by the Cairn Energy PLC Employees Share Trust at 31 December 2010.
The number of shares held by the Cairn Energy PLC Employees Share Trust at 31 December 2010 was 1,497,163 2009: 10,581,270 and the market value of these shares was 6.3m 2009: 35.2m.
Shares held by SIP trust Shares held by the SIP Trust represent the cost of shares held by the Cairn Energy PLC Employees Share Incentive Plan Trust at 31 December 2010.
The number of shares held by the Cairn Energy PLC Share Incentive Plan Trust at 31 December 2010 was 135,489 2009: nil and the market value of these shares was 0.6m 2009: nil.
Foreign currency translation Group Unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses arising on consolidation of subsidiary undertakings are taken directly to reserves in accordance with IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
In accordance with IAS 21, foreign exchange differences arising on intra-group loans are not eliminated on consolidation: this reflects the exposure to currency fluctuations where the subsidiaries involved have differing functional currencies.
These intra-group loans are not considered to be an investment in a foreign operation.
Company Unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses arise on translation of the Companys functional results into $ presentation currency in accordance with IAS 21.
Capital reserves non-distributable Capital reserves non-distributable include non-distributable amounts arising on various Group acquisitions.
27 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group operates a number of share-based schemes for the benefit of its employees: Cairn Energy PLC Group and Company No difference in the schemes below apply for Group and Company other than charges for these schemes that are made to Cairn India companies where their staff are members of these schemes.
2010 Share Incentive Plan The 2010 Share Incentive Plan the Plan was approved at a board meeting held on 9 December 2009.
The Plan was subsequently approved by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC on 26 February 2010.
The Plan is an arrangement which allows Cairn to award free shares to UK employees including directors and to award shares matching partnership shares purchased by employees, subject to HMRC limits.
The shares are normally held in trust for a period of 5 years after which they can be released to employees on a tax free basis.
The following table details the number and weighted average grant price WAGP of awards issued under the Share Incentive Plan at the Balance Sheet date: Number WAGP Outstanding at the beginning of the year Free award shares issued during the year 57,778 3.79 Matching award shares issued during the year 38,494 4.00 Lapsed during year 1,645 4.03 - - Outstanding at the end of the year 94,627 4.00 - - Weighted average fair value of awards granted in the year 3.25 Vesting 86% Volatility 52% Lapse due to withdrawals 5% p. a.
Share options Pre-2006 Plans and 2009 Plan Under the 1996 Second Share Option Scheme the 1996 Scheme, at 1 January 2010, employees had been granted options to subscribe for ordinary shares which are exercisable between 2005 and 2012, at a price of 0.2675.
At 31 December 2010, there were 100,000 outstanding 2009: 100,000 options outstanding with a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.18 years 2009: 2.18 years no options were exercised in 2010: 2009: nil.
All awards under the 1996 scheme were granted prior to 7 November 2002.
Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 125 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 27 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued Share options continued Pre-2006 Plans and 2009 Plan continued Under the 2002 Unapproved Share Option Plan the 2002 Plan, at 1 January 2010, employees had been granted options to subscribe for ordinary shares which are exercisable between 2006 and 2016, at prices between 0.3055 and 2.1660.
At 31 December 2010, there were 2,172,800 outstanding 2009: 4,614,890 options outstanding with a weighted average remaining contractual life of 5.06 years 2009: 6.12 years options exercised in 2010: 2,442,090: 2009: 1,433,620.
The options outstanding at the end of the year under the 2002 Plan can be broken down into the following weighted average exercise price WAEP variants: 2010 2009 Exercisable between Number WAEP Number WAEP 2006 2013 20,000 0.3055 120,000 0.3055 2007 2014 141,740 0.8735 187,530 0.8735 2008 2015 487,350 1.152 782,000 1.152 2009 2016 1,523,710 2.153 3,525,360 2.153 - - 2,172,800 4,614,890 - - Under the 2003 Approved Share Option Plan the 2003 Plan, at 1 January 2010, employees had been granted options to subscribe for ordinary shares which are exercisable between 2007 and 2016, at prices between 0.3095 and 2.1530.
At 31 December 2010, there were 59,610 outstanding 2009: 151,600 options outstanding with a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.32 years 2009: 5.72 years options exercised in 2010: 91,990: 2009: 81,100.
The options outstanding at the end of the year under the 2003 Plan can be broken down into the following WAEP variants: 2010 2009 Exercisable between Number WAEP Number WAEP 2007 2014 30,590 0.8735 47,210 0.8735 2008 2015 1.152 7,950 1.152 2009 2016 29,020 2.153 96,440 2.153 - - 59,610 151,600 - - Under the 2009 Approved Share Option Plan the 2009 Approved Plan and the 2009 Unapproved Share Option Plan at 1 January 2010, employees had been granted options to subscribe for ordinary shares which are exercisable between 2012 and 2019, at a price of 2.456.
At 31 December 2010, there were 532,009 approved options outstanding 2009: 405,470 with a weighted average remaining contractual life of 8.69 years 2009: 9.41 years and 598,193 unapproved options outstanding 2009: 352,170 with a weighted average remaining contractual life of 8.82 years 2009: 9.41 years.
No options were exercised in 2010 2009: nil.
The above share option schemes are subject to performance conditions on exercise.
The option holder may exercise 50% of their options if the average annual compound growth in the total shareholder return of the Company has been 5%.
If the growth has been in excess of 10% the option holder may exercise all of their options, with a sliding scale of %, between 50% to 100% exercisable if the growth is between 5% and 10%.
126 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 27 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued Share options continued Pre-2006 Plans and 2009 Plan continued The following tables detail the number and WAEP of share options for the various Cairn Energy PLC share option schemes at the Balance Sheet date, with the exception of the Converted Options which are detailed elsewhere : 2009 2009 1996 Scheme 2002 Plan 2003 Plan Approved Plan Unapproved Plan Number WAEP Number WAEP Number WAEP Number WAEP Number WAEP Outstanding at the beginning of the year 100,000 0.2675 4,614,890 1.883 151,600 1.702 405,470 2.456 352,170 2.456 Granted during the year 182,583 4.287 321,613 4.267 Lapsed during the year 56,044 2.824 75,590 2.970 Exercised during the year 2,442,090 1.933 91,990 1.835 - - - - - - - - - - Outstanding at the end of the year 100,000 0.2675 2,172,800 1.828 59,610 1.496 532,009 3.046 598,193 3.365 - - - - - - - - - - Exercisable at the end of the year 100,000 2,172,800 59,610 Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year 2.00 2.10 Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding options 1.18 years 5.06 years 4.32 years 8.69 years 8.82 years The following table details the number and WAEP of share options for the various share option schemes as at 31 December 2009: 2009 2009 1996 Scheme 2002 Plan 2003 Plan Approved Plan Unapproved Plan Number WAEP Number WAEP Number WAEP Number WAEP Number WAEP Outstanding at the beginning of the year 100,000 0.2675 6,222,370 1.904 247,890 1.690 Granted during the year 410,760 2.456 354,590 2.456 Lapsed during the year 173,860 2.101 15,190 2.153 5,290 2.456 2,420 2.456 Exercised during the year 1,433,620 1.948 81,100 1.579 - - - - - - - - - - Outstanding at the end of the year 100,000 0.2675 4,614,890 1.883 151,600 1.702 405,470 2.456 352,170 2.456 - - - - - - - - - - Exercisable at the end of the year 100,000 4,614,890 151,600 Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year 1.11 0.83 Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding options 2.18 years 6.12 years 5.72 years 9.41 years 9.41 years Cairn Energy PLC share options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the year.
The weighted average share price during the year was 4.0726 2009: 2.418.
Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 127 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 27 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued Share options continued Pre-2006 Plans and 2009 Plan continued The Cairn Energy PLC share options have been valued using a binomial model.
The main inputs to the model include the number of options, share price, leaver rate, trigger points, discount rate and volatility.
t Leaver rate assumptions are based on past history of employees leaving the Company prior to options vesting and are revised to equal the number of options that ultimately vest.
t Trigger points are the profit points at which the relevant percentage of employees are assumed to exercise their options.
t The risk-free rate is based on the yield on a zero coupon Government bond with a term equal to the expected term on the option being valued.
t Volatility was determined as the annualised standard deviation of the continuously compounded rates of return on the shares of a peer group of similar companies selected from the FTSE, as disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 83, over a ten year period to the date of award.
On the exercise of an option, participants would generally become entitled to such number of Cairn shares as have a market value equal to the notional gain that they realise, being the difference between the notional exercise price attributable to their option and the price of the units in respect of which their option has been exercised.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting on 21 December 2009 resolutions were approved to convert these phantom options into Replacement Options over ordinary shares in the Company the Replacement Share Option Plan.
The conversion was intended to put the director or employee in the same position as if, on the date the phantom option was granted, they had instead been granted an option on equivalent terms over shares in the Company.
The conversion took place on 22 December 2009.
The following table details the number and weighted WANEP of share options issued under the 2006 Plan as at 31 December 2009: Number WANEP Outstanding at the beginning of the year 4,466,709 1.14 Granted during the year Lapsed during the year 132,566 1.185 Exercised during the year Converted to Replacement Options on 22 December 2009 4,334,143 1.143 - - Outstanding at the end of the year - - Exercisable at the end of the year Weighted average fair value of options granted in year Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding options Not applicable The fair value of the awards has been calculated using a binomial model.
The main inputs to the model are as per the 2002 and 2003 Plans detailed above.
For details on the vesting conditions attached to the 2006 Plan, refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 83.
128 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 27 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued Share options continued 2006 Plan and 2009 Replacement Share Option Plan continued As detailed above Phantom Options granted under the 2006 plan were converted on 22 December 2009 into the Replacement Options over shares in the Company.
The options outstanding at the end of the year under the Replacement Share Option Plan can be broken down into the following WAEP variants: 2010 Exercisable between Number WAEP 2010 2017 827,130 1.725 2011 2018 373,200 3.223 2011 2018 30,250 3.305 - 1,230,580 - The above share option schemes are subject to performance conditions on exercise.
The following table details the number and WAEP of share options issued under the Replacement Option Plan at the Balance Sheet date: Number WAEP Outstanding at the beginning of the year 2,508,660 1.974 Lapsed during the year 11,200 3.223 Exercised during the year 1,266,880 1.725 - - Outstanding at the end of the year 1,230,580 2.218 - - Exercisable at the end of the year Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding options 6.46 years The following table details the number and WAEP of share options issued under the Replacement Option Plan at 31 December 2009: Number WAEP Outstanding at the beginning of the year Converted from Phantom Options on 22 December 2009 2,508,660 1.974 - - Outstanding at the end of the year 2,508,660 1.974 - - Exercisable at the end of the year Weighted average fair value of options granted in year 1.53 Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding options 7.24 years The fair value of the awards has been calculated using a binomial model.
For details on the vesting conditions attached to the 2009 Replacement Option Plan refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 83.
2009 Replacement Option Plan Vesting 5% 86.77% Trigger points 25% profit 15% 50% profit 25% 75% profit 25% 100% profit 15% 125% profit 10% No trigger 10% Risk-free rate 4% Volatility 52% Lapse due to withdrawals 5% p. a.
Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 129 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 27 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued LTIP The fair value of the 2002 LTIP, the 2006 LTIP, the Replacement LTIP and the 2009 LTIP scheme awards has been calculated using a binomial model.
The main inputs to the model are as per the share options schemes above, though vesting percentages for LTIPs can be above 100%.
For details on the vesting conditions attached to the LTIPs refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 83.
The awards existing under the LTIP are detailed in the table below together with the weighted average grant price WAGP at 31 December 2010: Number WAGP Outstanding at the beginning of the year 4,371,040 2.46 Granted during the year 2,381,493 4.28 - - Outstanding at the end of the year 6,752,533 3.10 - - Exercisable at the end of the year Weighted average fair value of awards granted in year 0.33 Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards 1.65 years The awards existing under the LTIP are detailed in the table below together with the WAGP at 31 December 2009: Number WAGP Granted during the year 4,371,040 2.46 - - Outstanding at the end of the year 4,371,040 2.46 - - Exercisable at the end of the year Weighted average fair value of awards granted in year 0.86 Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards 2.33 years 2006 LTIP and Replacement LTIP Under the 2006 LTIP, certain executive directors and employees had been granted phantom options which are equity settled over units in the Group.
Following the vesting of an award, participants would generally become entitled to such number of Cairn shares as have a market value equal to the aggregate price of the vested units.
Only 50% of these shares will be transferred to the participant immediately.
The remaining 50% will be held for a further year.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting on 21 December 2009 resolutions were approved to convert these phantom options into Replacement LTIP awards over ordinary shares in the Company the Replacement LTIP Plan.
The conversion was intended to put the director or employee in the same position as if, on the date the phantom award was granted, they had instead been granted an award on equivalent terms over shares in the Company.
An additional condition was made concerning the holding period: on vesting the holder is able to sell sufficient shares to fund the tax liabilities which have arisen, and the remaining shares will be held by the Companys employment benefit trust until 9 January 2013.
The awards existing at the Balance Sheet date are detailed in the table below: Replacement LTIPs Cairn India Units Number WAEP Number WANEP Outstanding at the beginning of the year 11,402,710 3.07 3,564,893 2.25 Vested during the year 7,134,838 3.07 2,084,630 1.90 Lapsed during the year 540,179 1.91 - - - - Outstanding at the end of the year 4,267,872 3.07 940,084 3.22 - - - - Exercisable at the end of the year Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards 0.3 years 0.3 years 130 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 27 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued LTIP continued 2006 LTIP and Replacement LTIP continued The awards existing at 31 December 2009 are detailed in the table below: Replacement LTIPs Cairn India Units ||| Number WAEP Number WANEP Outstanding at the beginning of the year 3,158,475 2.29 Granted during the year 406,418 1.94 Converted from Phantom awards 22 December 2009 11,402,710 3.07 - - - - Outstanding at the end of the year 11,402,710 3.07 3,564,893 2.25 - - - - Exercisable at the end of the year Weighted average fair value of awards granted in year 3.80 0.71 Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards 0.6 years 0.6 years The fair value of the awards under the 2006 LTIP and the Replacement LTIP is based on an independent valuation using the following assumptions: Replacement LTIP Capricorn Units Cairn India Units Vesting 118.49% 124.90% 36.83% 37.14% 31.94% 32.97% Volatility 52% 63% 74% 41% 42% Risk-free rate 4% p. a.
4.7% 4.9% p. a. Lapse due to withdrawals nil nil nil 28 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT: OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES Group and Company The main risks arising from the Companys and the Groups financial instruments are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, and credit risk.
The Board of Cairn Energy PLC reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and these are summarised below.
The Groups treasury functions at Cairn Energy PLC and local operational offices are responsible for these risks for their respective businesses, in accordance with the policy set by the Board.
Management of these risks is carried out by monitoring of cash flows, investment and funding requirements using a variety of techniques.
These potential exposures are managed whilst ensuring that the companies and the Group have adequate liquidity at all times in order to meet their immediate cash requirements.
There are no significant concentrations of risks unless otherwise stated.
The primary financial instruments comprise bank loans, cash, short and medium-term deposits, certificates of deposit, money market liquidity and mutual funds, intra-group loans, forward contracts, swaps, options, and other receivables and financial liabilities held at amortised cost.
The Groups strategy has been to finance its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings.
Other alternatives such as equity and other forms of non-investment-grade debt finance are reviewed by the Board, when appropriate, to fund substantial acquisitions or oil and gas projects.
Liquidity risk On 28 March 2008 Cairn Energy PLC entered into a 30.0m revolving credit facility to fund its working capital.
The facility was jointly provided by The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC and the Bank of Scotland and was to expire on 31 January 2013.
Interest was charged at floating rates determined by LIBOR plus an applicable margin.
The facility was cancelled on 20 January 2010.
No sums were drawn at 31 December 2009.
On 15 September 2010 Cairn Energy PLC entered into a 200m revolving credit facility to fund its working capital.
The facility was provided by Standard Chartered Bank Plc and was to expire on 30 September 2011.
On 15 December 2010 the above facility was refinanced.
Cairn Energy PLC entered into a stand-by secured revolving credit of $900m to extend the working capital available, to enable commitments to be made for the 2011 Greenland drilling campaign and for other general corporate purposes.
The facility is provided by Standard Chartered Bank, Bank of Scotland Plc, Crdit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, HSBC Bank PLC and Socit Gnrale and expires on 30 September 2011.
Security, in the form of a pledge over a number of shares in Cairn UK Holdings Limited, would be provided prior to first drawdown.
Interest is charged at floating rates determined by LIBOR plus an applicable margin.
No sums were drawn at 31 December 2010.
In addition, Cairn Energy PLC and the Capricorn Group have $35.0m of facilities 2009: $35.0m in place to cover the issue of performance guarantees.
Fixed rates of bank commission and charges apply to these.
Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 131 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 28 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT: OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued Liquidity risk continued The Group currently has surplus cash which it has placed in a combination of money market liquidity funds, fixed term deposits and mutual funds with a number of International and Indian banks and financial institutions, ensuring sufficient liquidity to enable the Group to meet its short medium-term expenditure requirements.
The Group is conscious of the current environment and constantly monitors counterparty risk.
Policies are in place to limit counterparty exposure.
The Group monitors counterparties using published ratings and other measures where appropriate.
Interest rate risk Surplus funds are placed on short medium-term deposits at floating rates.
It is Cairns policy to deposit funds with banks or other financial institutions that offer the most competitive interest rate at time of issue.
The requirement to achieve an acceptable yield is balanced against the need to minimise liquidity and counterparty risk.
Short medium-term borrowing arrangements are available at floating rates.
The treasury functions may from time to time opt to manage a proportion of the interest costs by using derivative financial instruments like interest rate swaps.
At this time, however, there are no such instruments 2009: none.
Interest rate risk table The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Groups profit before tax to a change in interest rates through the impact on floating rate borrowings and investments.
Increase decrease Increase decrease in basis points on profit before tax 2010 continuing operations 50 $2.5m 2009 continuing operations 50 $2.1m The amounts calculated are based on actual drawings and investments in the periods for a 50 basis point movement in the total rate of interest on each loan or investment.
Foreign currency risk Cairn manages exposures that arise from non-functional currency receipts and payments by matching receipts and payments in the same currency and actively managing the residual net position.
Generally the exposure has been limited given that receipts and payments have mostly been in US dollars and the functional currency of most companies in the Group is US dollars.
The Group also aims, where possible, to hold surplus cash, debt and working capital balances in functional currency which in most cases is US dollars, thereby matching the reporting currency and functional currency of most companies in the Group.
This minimises the impact of foreign exchange movements on the Groups Balance Sheet.
Where residual net exposures do exist and they are considered significant, the Company and Group may from time to time opt to use derivative financial instruments to minimise its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to movements in the $:GBP and $:INR exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, on the Groups monetary asses and liabilities.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material.
Effect on profit before Effect on tax equity $m $m 2010 continuing operations 10% increase in Sterling to $ 6.9 0.1 10% decrease in Sterling to $ 6.9 0.1 10% increase in Indian Rupee to $ 6.9 10% decrease in Indian Rupee to $ 6.9 2009 continuing operations 10% increase in Sterling to $ 17.8 0.9 10% decrease in Sterling to $ 17.8 0.9 10% increase in Indian Rupee to $ 22.9 10% decrease in Indian Rupee to $ 22.9 132 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 28 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT: OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued Credit risk Investment credit risk for investments with banks and other financial institutions is managed by the treasury function in accordance with the Board approved policies of Cairn Energy PLC.
Investments of surplus funds are only made with approved counterparties who meet the appropriate rating and or other criteria, and are only made within approved limits.
The Board continually re-assesses the Groups policy and updates as required.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through counterparty failure.
PLC and Capricorn Group limit the placing of deposits, certificates of deposit and other investments to banks or financial institutions that have at least 2 AAor above ratings from Moodys, Standard & Poors or Fitch, unless a Sovereign Guarantee is available from a AAA rated government.
The counterparty limit is $100m and a maximum of 5% of a fund.
Investments in international money market liquidity funds are only made with AAA rated funds and where the investment policy is limited to money market instruments.
At the year end, the Group does not have any significant concentrations of bad debt risk other than that disclosed in Note 19.
As at 31 December 2010, the Group had investments with 10 counterparties to ensure no concentration of counterparty investment risk.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by the carrying value as at the Balance Sheet date.
Capital management The objective of the Groups capital management structure is to ensure that there remains sufficient liquidity within the Group to carry out committed work programme requirements.
The Group monitors the long term cash flow requirements of the business in order to assess the requirement for changes to the capital structure to meet that objective and to maintain flexibility.
The Board manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes to economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Board may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital, issue new shares for cash, repay debt, put in place new debt facilities or other such restructuring activities as appropriate.
No significant changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the year ended 31 December 2010.
Group capital and net debt were made up as follows: 31 December 31 December 2009 2010 restated Group $m $m Continuing operations Loans and borrowings 666.1 Trade and other payables 77.0 348.5 Less cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits 187.0 1,189.7 Discontinued operations Loans and borrowings 673.7 Trade and other payables 408.2 Less cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits 891.1 - - Net debt funds 80.8 175.1 Equity 3,838.4 2,677.0 - - Group capital and net debt 3,919.2 2,501.9 - - Gearing ratio 2.1% - - Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 133 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 28 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT: OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued Capital management continued Company capital and net debt were made up as follows: 31 December 31 December 2009 2010 restated Company $m $m Trade and other payables 82.4 253.9 Less cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits 45.6 158.4 - - Net debt 36.8 95.5 Equity 975.1 802.5 - - Company capital and net debt 1,011.9 898.0 - - Gearing ratio 3.6% 10.6% - - 29 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group and Company calculate the fair value of assets and liabilities by reference to amounts considered to be receivable or payable on the Balance Sheet date.
The financial assets and liabilities for 2010 exclude those in respect of discontinued operations.
Refer to Note 3 for further details of these.
The Groups financial assets and liabilities, together with their fair values, are as follows: Financial assets Carrying amount Fair value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 Group $m $m $m $m Bank deposits 13.2 13.2 Cash and cash equivalents 187.0 1,176.5 187.0 1,176.5 Trade receivables 31.4 31.4 Joint Venture debtors 12.3 159.9 12.3 159.9 - - - - 199.3 1,381.0 199.3 1,381.0 - - - - All of the above financial assets are current and unimpaired with the exception of trade receivables and Joint Venture debtors and prepayments.
An analysis of the ageing of trade and other receivables is provided in Note 19.
Financial liabilities Carrying amount Fair value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 Group $m $m $m $m Loans and borrowings 666.1 666.1 Trade payables 1.5 5.0 1.5 5.0 Joint Venture creditors 2.6 104.2 2.6 104.2 Finance leases 3.5 3.5 Decommissioning provision 27.0 27.0 - - - - 4.1 805.8 4.1 805.8 - - - - The fair value of financial assets and liabilities has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
134 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 29 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
At 31 December 2010 the Group had no financial instruments in level 1, 2 or 3.
The Group has no financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Maturity analysis The following table sets out the amount, by maturity, of the Groups financial liabilities: At 31 December 2010 Less than One to Two to Three to Four to More than Total one year two years three years four years five years five years $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Trade payables 1.5 1.5 Joint Venture creditors 2.6 2.6 - - - - - - - 4.1 4.1 - - - - - - - At 31 December 2009 Less than One to Two to Three to Four to More than Total one year two years three years four years five years five years $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Loans and borrowings 878.8 50.2 50.2 250.6 220.3 179.2 128.3 Trade payables 5.0 5.0 Joint Venture creditors 104.2 104.2 Finance leases 4.0 1.9 1.6 0.5 Decommissioning provision 90.8 90.8 - - - - - - - 1,082.8 161.3 51.8 251.1 220.3 179.2 219.1 - - - - - - - Loans and borrowings and finance leases include interest for the purposes of the maturity analysis.
The decommissioning provision is discounted at a rate of 7% to give the net present value which is carried at the balance sheet date.
The gross amount is included in the maturity analysis table in accordance with the requirements of IFRS.
Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 135 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 29 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued The Companys financial assets and liabilities, together with their fair values, are as follows: Financial assets Carrying amount Fair value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 Company $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 45.6 158.4 45.6 158.4 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 92.8 246.6 92.8 246.6 - - - - 138.4 405.0 138.4 405.0 - - - - All of the above financial assets are current and unimpaired.
Financial liabilities Carrying amount Fair value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 Company $m $m $m $m Trade payables 0.1 0.4 0.1 0.4 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 78.1 230.1 78.1 230.1 - - - - 78.2 230.5 78.2 230.5 - - - - The following table sets out the amount, by maturity, of the Companys financial liabilities: At 31 December 2010 Less than One to Two to Three to Four to More than Total one year two years three years four years five years five years Company $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Trade payables 0.1 0.1 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 78.1 78.1 - - - - - - - 78.2 78.2 - - - - - - - At 31 December 2009 Less than One to Two to Three to Four to More than Total one year two years three years four years five years five years Company $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Trade payables 0.4 0.4 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 230.1 230.1 - - - - - - - 230.5 230.5 - - - - - - - 136 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 30 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 $m $m $m $m Oil and gas expenditure: Intangible exploration appraisal assets 327.0 542.4 Property, plant & equipment development producing assets 750.3 - - - - Contracted for 327.0 1,292.7 - - - - The above capital commitments represent Cairns share of obligations in relation to its interests in Joint Ventures.
As all Cairn Joint Ventures are jointly controlled assets, these commitments represent Cairns share of the capital commitment of the Joint Ventures themselves.
31 PENSION COMMITMENTS The Group and Company have no pension commitments as at the Balance Sheet date 2009: $nil.
32 OTHER FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS Group Operating leases as lessee Group entities have entered into commercial leases for certain land and buildings and for plant, machinery and office equipment.
The leases have an average life of between 1 and 6 years.
There are no restrictions placed on the lessee by entering into these leases.
Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Minimum lease Minimum lease payments payments At 31 December At 31 December 2010 2009 $m $m Land and buildings, within: One year 2.0 5.0 Two to five years 2.1 5.6 - - 4.1 10.6 - - Other, within: One year 0.2 122.1 Two to five years 0.1 248.3 - - 0.3 370.4 - - Included within other operating lease commitments in 2009 is Cairns share of operating leases entered into by Joint Ventures of $122.1m due within 1 year and $248.3m due between 2 and 5 years.
These are also included in Capital Commitments disclosed in Note 30 where appropriate.
Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 137 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 32 OTHER FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS continued Company Operating leases as lessee The Company has entered into commercial leases for certain land and buildings and for office equipment.
Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Minimum lease Minimum lease payments payments At 31 December At 31 December 2010 2009 $m $m Land and buildings, within: One year 2.0 2.0 Two to five years 2.1 4.1 - - 4.1 6.1 - - Other, within: One year 0.2 0.1 Two to five years 0.1 - - 0.3 0.1 - - 33 GUARANTEES It is normal practice for the Group to issue guarantees in respect of obligations during the normal course of business.
The Group had provided the following guarantees at 31 December 2010: t Various guarantees under the Groups bank facilities see Note 28 for the Groups share of minimum work programme commitments for the current year of $34.3m 2009: $18.6m.
t Parent company guarantees for the Groups obligations under PSC, sales and other contracts.
34 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Companys principal subsidiaries are listed in Note 17.
The following table provides the Companys balances which are outstanding with subsidiary companies at the Balance Sheet date: At 31 December At 31 December 2010 2009 $m $m Amounts owed from subsidiary undertakings 92.8 246.6 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 78.1 230.1 - - 14.7 16.5 - - The amounts outstanding are unsecured, repayable on demand and will be settled in cash.
Interest, where charged, is at market rates.
No guarantees have been given.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, the Group has not made any provision for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties 2009: nil.
138 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 34 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS continued The following table provides the Companys transactions with subsidiary companies recorded in the profit 2009: profit for the year, all of which were carried out on an arms length basis: 2010 2009 $m $m Amounts invoiced to subsidiaries 21.6 13.8 Amounts invoiced by subsidiaries 18.7 8.2 a Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of directors, who are the key management personnel of the Company, is set out below in aggregate.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 83.
2010 2009 Company $m $m Short-term employee benefits 7.5 7.3 Pension contributions 0.6 0.5 Share-based payments 26.3 17.2 - - 34.4 25.0 - - In addition, employers national insurance contributions for key management personnel in respect of short-term employee benefits was $1.1m 2009: $0.7m.
b Other transactions During the year, the Group did not make any purchases in the ordinary course of business from an entity under common control 2009: $nil.
There were no amounts owed to the party at the year end 2009: $nil.
35 PRIOR YEAR ADJUSTMENTS a In June 2010, Cairn changed its accounting policy for the valuation of inventories of oil and condensate.
Cairn now value such inventories at the lower of cost and net realisable value, where previously these inventories were valued at net realisable value based on the estimated selling price.
Cairns revised accounting policy aligns the Group with the majority of UK listed entities in the oil and gas sector.
Given the increased volumes of inventory held in Rajasthan, Cairn believed that valuing oil and condensate at cost presented a fairer and more comparable measure of operating profit for a given period.
Prior period comparatives have been restated to reflect this change in policy.
The following table indicates the changes that have been made to comparative statements.
No detailed restated comparative information has been provided as there is no material impact on the results of earlier years following this change in policy, being only $0.8m impact on net assets and equity.
Financial Statements Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 139 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 35 PRIOR YEAR ADJUSTMENTS continued December 2009 Inventory Restated financial valuation December statements adjustment 2009 Year ended 31 December 2009 $m $m $m Group Balance Sheet Inventory 24.7 14.0 10.7 Current assets 1,569.1 14.0 1,555.1 Total assets 3,863.8 14.0 3,849.8 Deferred tax liabilities 83.5 4.0 79.5 Non-current liabilities 781.8 4.0 777.8 Total liabilities 1,176.8 4.0 1,172.8 Net assets 2,687.0 10.0 2,677.0 Retained earnings 1,495.0 6.2 1,488.8 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,959.3 6.2 1,953.1 Non-controlling interests 727.7 3.8 723.9 Total equity 2,687.0 10.0 2,677.0 Group Income Statement Production costs 40.0 12.5 52.5 Pre-award costs 22.4 22.4 Gross loss 10.0 12.5 22.5 Operating loss 240.1 12.5 252.6 Loss before taxation 60.7 12.5 73.2 Taxation credit on loss 123.3 3.3 126.6 Profit for the year 62.6 9.2 53.4 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 24.7 5.7 19.0 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 37.9 3.5 34.4 Earnings per ordinary share basic cents 1.82 0.42 1.40 Earnings per ordinary share diluted cents 1.81 0.42 1.39 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income Profit for the year 62.6 9.2 53.4 Total comprehensive income for the year 108.8 9.2 99.6 Total comprehensive income attributable to equity holders of the parent 63.4 5.7 57.7 Total comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 45.4 3.5 41.9 140 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 35 PRIOR YEAR ADJUSTMENTS continued b Following the adoption of IFRS 2 Group-Settled Share-based Payment Arrangements, the Company has restated its investments and equity to include share-based payment charges in respect of awards to employees of Capricorn Energy Limited.
No detailed restated comparative information has been provided as there is no material impact on the results of earlier years following this change in policy, being only $1.6m impact on net assets and equity.
December 2009 Share-based Restated financial payment December statements adjustment 2009 Year ended 31 December 2009 $m $m $m Company Balance Sheet Investments 634.6 15.4 650.0 Non-current assets 634.9 15.4 650.3 Total assets 1,041.0 15.4 1,056.4 Net assets 787.1 15.4 802.5 Foreign currency translation 66.0 0.1 66.1 Retained earnings 390.1 15.5 405.6 Total equity 787.1 15.4 802.5 Company Statement of Comprehensive Income Currency translation differences 75.9 0.2 76.1 Other comprehensive income for the year 75.9 0.2 76.1 Total comprehensive income for the year 18.9 0.2 19.1 Total comprehensive income attributable to equity holders of the parent 18.9 0.2 19.1 Company Statement of Changes in Equity Other comprehensive income for the year 75.9 0.2 76.1 Total comprehensive income for the year 18.9 0.2 19.1 Share-based payments 20.4 13.6 34.0 Foreign currency translation 66.0 0.1 66.1 Retained earnings 390.1 15.5 405.6 Total equity 787.1 15.4 802.5
