Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibilty Governance Financials Shareholder information SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Registrars Computershare share dealing services The Companys share register is administered by Computershare The Companys South African registrars, Computershare Investor Services in conjunction with local representatives in Investor Services, administer a telephone and postal sales various jurisdictions.
The following are the contact details: service for shares held through Old Mutual South Africa Nominees Pty Limited on the South African branch register and UK shares held through Old Mutual Namibia Nominees Pty Limited on the Namibian section of the principal register.
If you Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions hold your shares in this way and wish to sell your shares by telephone, Computershare may be contacted on 0861 100 940 Bridgwater Road Bristol a South African number between 8.00 a. m. and 4.30 p. m. local time on Mondays to Fridays, excluding public holidays.
A service BS99 6ZZ Tel: 44 0 870 707 1212 fee is payable based on the value of the shares sold.
co. uk contactus Internet share dealing: This service provides shareholders with South Africa a facility to buy or sell Old Mutual plc ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange.
The commission for deals through Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd the internet is 0.5%, subject to a minimum charge of 15.
In 70 Marshall Street addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
Johannesburg 2001 There is no need to open an account in order to deal.
Real-time PO Box 61051, Marshalltown dealing is available during market hours.
Orders may also be Tel: 0861 100 940 placed outside market hours.
Up to 90-day limit orders are 27 0 11 870 8211 available for sales.
To access the service, log on to www.
Shareholders should have their Shareholder Reference Number SRN available for the Malawi purposes of sales.
The SRN appears on share certicates National Bank of Malawi and dividend cheques tax statements.
Payment by cheque Financial Management Services Department will be required for purchases.
At present, this service is only Cnr Victoria Avenue Henderson Street available to shareholders in certain European jurisdictions.
Blantyre Computershares website contains an up to date list of PO Box 1438, Blantyre, Malawi these countries.
com Telephone share dealing: The commission for deals through Computershares telephone share dealing service is 1%, subject Namibia to a minimum charge of 25.
In addition stamp duty, currently Transfer Secretaries Pty Limited 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
The service is available from Shop 8 Kaiser Krone Centre 8.00 a. m. to 4.30 p. m. Monday to Friday, excluding bank Post Street Mall holidays, on telephone number 0870 703 0084.
Detailed terms Windhoek and conditions are available on request.
Shareholders should PO Box 2401, Windhoek have their Shareholder Reference Number SRN ready when Tel: 264 0 61 227647 calling about sales.
The SRN appears on share certicates and Fax: 264 0 61 248531 dividend cheques tax statements.
Payment by cheque will be Email: ts@nsx.
At present, this service is only available to shareholders in certain jurisdictions outside the UK, which Sweden Computershare will confirm upon request.
For general enquiries Euroclear Sweden AB about the dealing service shareholders can call 0870 873 5836.
Box 7822 SE-103 97 Stockholm These services are offered on an execution-only basis and Tel: 46 8 402 9000 subject to the applicable terms and conditions.
This is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold shares in Old Mutual plc.
Zimbabwe Shareholders who are unsure of what action to take should Corpserve Private Limited obtain independent financial advice.
Share values may go down 2nd Floor, ZB Centre as well as up, which may result in a shareholder receiving less Cnr First Street Kwame Nkrumah Avenue than he or she originally invested.
Harare PO Box 2208, Harare, Zimbabwe To the extent that this statement is a financial promotion for the Tel: 263 0 4 751559 61 share dealing service provided by Computershare Investor Fax: 263 0 4 752629 Services PLC, it has been approved by Computershare Investor Email: enquiries@corpserve.
co. zw Services PLC for the purpose of section 21 2 b of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 only.
Computershare Investor Services PLC is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Where this has been received in a country where the provision of such a service would be contrary to local laws or regulations, this should be treated as information only.
Old Mutual plc 389 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Scrip dividend scheme It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several The Company offers eligible shareholders the option to receive years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited dividends in the form of shares through participation in the advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free Companys scrip dividend scheme.
Shareholders who are company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: eligible to make an evergreen election will receive dividends in the form of shares for each dividend for which a scrip alternative Q Make sure you get the correct name of the person and is offered while the election remains in place.
organisation: Details about eligibility to participate in the scrip dividend scheme Q Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before are contained in the scrip dividend scheme booklet.
This booklet getting involved by visiting www.
uk register : and the accompanying mandate forms can be obtained from the Q Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0300 500 Companys website www.
com or from the relevant 5000 or visiting www.
uk: registrars please refer to the contact details on the preceding Q If the calls persist, hang up.
Details of when elections to join the scrip dividend scheme must be received in order to receive the scrip dividend alternative If you deal with an unauthorised rm, you will not be eligible to for the final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 are set receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation out under the heading Financial calendar below.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts Strate form.
shtml Since January 2002, all transactions in the Companys shares on the JSE have been required to be settled electronically through Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses Strate, and share certicates are no longer good for delivery in will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found The Company wrote to certicated shareholders on its South on the FSA website www.
uk African branch register in October 2001 to inform them of these changes and of the courses of action available to them.
The Financial calendar Company also wrote separately to certicated shareholders on The Companys financial calendar for the forthcoming year is as the Namibian section of its principal register in January 2002 follows: toexplain the impact of Strate.
These included participating in Issuer-Sponsored Nominee Programmes to dematerialise in Last five dealing thecase of South Africa or immobilise in the case of Namibia Scrip dividend alternative days up to their previously certicated shareholdings in the Company.
calculation price determined 31 March 2011 Shareholders who have any enquiries about these programmes or about the effect of Strate on their holdings in the Company Currency conversion date for the final dividend 31 March 2011 should contact Computershare Investor Services in Johannesburg on 0861 100 940 or 27 0 11 870 8211.
Local currency equivalents and scrip dividend alternative calculation announced 1 April 2011 Checking your holding online An online service is situated at the Investor Centre option within Scrip dividend alternative closes for 12 noon on the website address www.
com which gives shareholders access to their account to confirm registered shareholders on the African exchanges 15 April 2011 details, to give or amend dividend mandate instructions, and toobtain a current shareholding balance.
A simple calculator Record date for the final dividend 15 April 2011 function places a market quote against each holding and allows shareholders to estimate its value.
There are also a number of Scrip dividend alternative closes for 12 noon on downloadable forms from this site such as change of address, shareholders on the principal UK register 3 May 2011 dividend mandate and stock transfer forms.
Finally, there is an extensive list of frequently asked questions and the facility to Annual General Meeting and First Quarter contact Computershare Investor Services by email.
Interim Management Statement 12 May 2011 Warning to Shareholders boiler room scams Final dividend payment date and issue of In recent years, many companies have become aware that shares under the scrip dividend alternative 31 May 2011 their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are Interim results 5 August 2011 typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be Third Quarter Interim Management worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These Statement 3 November 2011 operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 Interim dividend payment date 30 November 2011 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA reported thatthe average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
Final results for 2011 March 2012 390 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibilty Governance Financials Shareholder information SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Rule 144A ADRs The Company has a Rule 144A American Depositary Receipt Rule 144A ADR facility through The Bank of New York.
Each Rule 144A ADR represents 10 ordinary shares in the Company.
Any enquiries about the Companys Rule 144A ADR facility should be addressed to The Bank of New York, 101 Barclay Street, New York, NY 10286, USA, tel: 1-888-BNY-ADRS 1-888-269-2377 if you are calling from within the USA.
If you are calling from outside the USA, please call 1 212 815 3700.
You may also send an email enquiry to shareowners@bankofny.
com Websites Further information on the Company can be found on the following websites: www.
co. za Electronic communications and electronic proxy appointment voting instructions If you would like to receive future communications from the Company by email, please log on to our website, www.
jsp, select the Shareholder centre section, click on Electronic Communication and then follow the instructions for registration of your details.
In order to register, you will need your Shareholder Reference Number, which can be found on the payment advice notice or tax voucher accompanying your last dividend payment or notication.
The number is also printed on forms of proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
Before you register, you will be asked to agree to the Terms and Conditions for Electronic Communications with Shareholders.
It is important that you read these Terms and Conditions carefully, as they set out the basis on which electronic communications will be sent to you.
You should bear in mind that, in accessing documents electronically, you will incur the cost of online time.
Any election to receive documents electronically will generally remain in force until you contact the Companys Registrars via the online address set out earlier in this section of the Report or otherwise to terminate or change such election.
The use of the electronic communications facility described above is entirely voluntary.
If you wish to continue to receive communications from the Company by post, then you do not need to take any action.
Electronic proxy appointment is available for this years Annual General Meeting.
This enables proxy votes to be submitted electronically, as an alternative to lling out and posting a form of proxy.
Further details are set out on the form of proxy.
Electronic submission is also available for voting instruction forms.
Old Mutual plc 391 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
